ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59670	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Mining. For decades, there has been a problem with the deposit of lead and entemon in a mining site near Loznica, Zajac. In 2006, privatisation of the plant was made, and we thought the problem would be resolved. Unfortunately, the problem is not only not solved, but the problem these people have in Zajaca is getting worse. During August 2011, the printed media, electronic media, published one news that upsets the entire population of the Republic of Serbia. Of the 50 youngsters in the mining site of Zajec, whose blood test was conducted to insist on parenting, at least half of them found increased levels of lead in the blood. It's interesting how the state authorities reacted. While the Ministry of Health has taken certain steps to determine the true factual situation, the Ministry of Environment, or has not heard from it, or the reaction has been so mild that it has been undetectable. It's not the first time this ministry has reacted this way. I remind Serbia's public that during 2007 and 2008, the ministry filed criminal charges against the pharmaceutical company for its reported problems with filter plants, when an increased concentration of lead was observed. The fines received by the firm were reduced on the basis of the court's reasoning that these were significant investments of fivem euros invested by the company in the company. So, on the principle of that law that we've passed, the polluter pays for it. That's how the laws in Serbia are respected. The initial amount of waste material, when it was purchased, was 350 tonnes to exceed 2.5 thousand tonnes in recent days. This basic material is not only brought from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but from a complete environment. The question asked by the DSS to the Ministry of Environmental Protection is – what is the total amount of waste material being brought to the mining site of Zajaca? Which way is that being transported? Who are the carriers? From which countries is this material transported to the city city of Zajac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59671	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59672	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question, rather I would say the suggestion, the appeal, the proposal for prime minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, and the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dusan Petrovic, as these days, in the last three days, eight municipalities of western Serbia are being protested by the raspberry producer. For three days now, raspberries producers have been standing on the roads trying to set up a meeting with the top of the government. So far, this has not gone hand in hand, and my proposal, or appeal, is to get to that meeting as soon as possible. I'll remind you that the raspberries are one of the strategic...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59673	National MP Dragan Todorovic, please do not disturb the speaker. I ask you not to promote the ignorance of what part of the session we are in now and what, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, every MP has a right. I warn you, you are under obligation to comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure and not to endanger the order of the sitting. Go on, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59674	I will remind you that raspberries is a strategic product of the Zlatibor district, that every year the Republic of Serbia earns about 150m euros from the production of raspberries. I'll also remind you that thousands of families tie their existence to the production of raspberries. Because of all this, and not wanting to prejudge the outcome of these conversations, I suggest that this meeting come as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59675	Are any of the other MPs reporting for a word, using the right of Article 286? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59676	Ladies and gentlemen, you just had a chance and a demonstration of what this state looks like and what our government looks like. There seems to be no more ruling party in this room, it seems that all opposition parties are. This is insane, people, that you're proposing something to the government here, and you're sitting in that government... (President: People's Parliament, you have already been warned, while you have disrupted the MP Branislav Mitrovica, that you do not promote the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure or the course of the session in which we are sitting. I warn you twice, you have the right to ask a question. ) Thank you very much. I'd like to read something, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's the right time, today is 13, and it's approaching 16, so let me remind you of some things, I suppose you may not have known or forgotten, but I'll quote. One man said this way: "In general, although implicit, the assumption is that over several years, Kosovo institutions will assume the most important functions, including borders for the rights of ethnic minorities. It will be called multiethnic Kosovo, although the number of non-Albanians will be negligible if there are any. Those who are exiled from their homes will remain homeless forever. De facto Kosovo's independence will probably not become formally independent, but it will be independent. "Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, this was written in 2003 by Zoran Djindjic in a letter sent by Putin, Blair and Bush. That's when Zoran Djindjic asked to do what could only be done to resolve the KIM status. But they came after Zoran Djindjic, who allowed Kosovo to become a de facto non-dependent state. Now that Thaci has reached 16, when he announced he will take over administrative borders with the help of KFOR, you are sitting with your hands cut. You're writing a letter to Bank Moon. You write a letter to a UN official, which is literally part of the US Foreign Ministry. What has the UN done so far in the world when it comes to brutal violations of international peace, international law, the UN Charter? Nothing. Let me just remind you of one of the secretary generals, who has become this thanks to the execution of U.S. orders. Remember 1995, Flash and Storm. The warehouses held by the UN military, the weapons warehouses were handed over to the Ustashas. Do you know who the one in front of the UN was? Kofi Annan. He later became secretary general. Even now Kofi Annan won't do anything, because he can't do anything because they don't give him Americans. Just like they don't give you anything to do, to stop this lawlessness and terror being committed on Kim from stopping. I warn you, and I urge you to schedule a session of the Council of Security at which the Assembly would decide what should be done, and first of all, to request a session of the Security Council, to warn at the Security Council session all this can happen in 16, as it happened in 2004, as it happened in 1995. Do you think the Serbs will stay in KIM if Thaci takes over the borders? He won't. They cannot remain under the terror of Hashim Thaci, the one who sold Serbian organs. You're not doing anything. When will you call for a session of the Serbian Parliament? The SRS delegation will go to Kosovo Mitrovica on 16th, and we will try to get this gesture to know our citizens in KIM that they are not alone, that we will do everything to help and prevent the terror and lawlessness that is being committed below.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59677	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59678	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the final decision of the Ministry of Education, which established the list of teachers for Islam is only one in a series of decisions that this government destabilises the political scene in the Sandzak area. Also, these moves are causing a sense of uncertainty and rejection among Bosniaks in the Sandzak area, and this is evident from all these decisions that this government, or individual ministers, have made over the past three years at the heart of the citizens' interest in the Sandzak area. Is it normal for the Government to solve problems in Sandzak by generating new problems, so the problem of not establishing the Bosniak National Council is solved by just confirming problems related to the functioning of religion, i.e. delivering a list of credentialists who need to keep Islam in primary and secondary schools in the Sandzak area? For a vast number of Sandzak citizens, it is also unacceptable to ignore individual ministers the existence of an Islamic community in Serbia. This is simply unacceptable because for most Sandzak citizens, or Bosniaks, the Islamic community in Serbia is a legitimate Islamic community in Serbia. It is obvious that this government is working, and we saw it yesterday, on the principle of coalition blackmail, that minority partners are constantly putting pressure and blackmail on the strongest party in the ruling coalition, trying to act for their party of interest. Clearly, this decision about a believer is one of those decisions. For us, in the LDP, it is absolutely unacceptable to have such a functioning of the government and such a functioning of the ruling majority. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Education and Minister of Faith and Diaspora – did they even understand the situation on the ground in Sandzak and have they checked the qualifications of those who have proposed for teachers? Is it also normal that, for example, in the Pryboy municipality, I have the principal, who has been a believer for a number of years, who has graduated from college, is not on the list for teachers, and is placed in place by people who have completed high school or high school? Do you think the Bosniaks will let their children learn about faith, Islam from those who have suspicious credibility and who do not have an adequate school so that they can do so? What was done about the recommendations of the Protector of Citizens and for the functioning of religion? I'm just going to remind you that last year's Civilian Protector made a recommendation to the Ministry of Education that classes should be regulated and about religious science. Also, has the Ministry of Education been aware that during the last school year, a huge number of students did not have this class because of this way of defining people who are supposed to teach religion? For example, in the municipality of Pryboy over three months, students had no religious background, while in the Tutin municipality there were students who had no religious education throughout the year. Among other things, the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights report, on the state of human rights in 2010. It is obvious that the way the state of Serbia works, i.e. the story of decentralisation, is different from what you are here declaring, from what it looks like on the ground, because these moves that you are making an impression on the citizens of Sandzak, with Bosniaks, that someone in Belgrade decides on those things that are of paramount importance for the functioning of a national community. Finally, I would like to say that the LDP will continue to implement its policy, human rights protection policy and the fight against discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59679	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives report to the floor? People's MP, Munir Traturak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59680	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, in Novi Pazar nearly a month's workmen of Raška strike in front of the municipality building, demanding that profits be paid at some priority by court solutions at a time when the TEK suspended all activities due to known events from 1993 to 1997. My question and my intention here in the Assembly, what we're talking about this problem, are manipulations of the information that is happening in this period. Nearly eightm euros are being talked about to be paid for 1,500 workers. Is that such a number or not? How many workers are on that list to be paid off? And that's where he manipulates information. Were the strikers now and who were really on the list at the time employed by the TEK Raška or were they working abroad or were they working privately? All of these answers, in order for us, in order to make it possible for RAŠK workers, who are on strike, to finally know how much money, how many workers and what dynamics can be paid for, answers are needed from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Agency for Privatisation. What is most important at this time is that as soon as possible a meeting is organised at the level of the Management Board of the Directors of the Tek Raška and the representative of the Privatisation Agency, because what was until the task, the obligation of local self-government, is all done to place the TEC of Raška, as one comprehensive property on 39 parcels, in order to facilitate the sale to interested investors and people already in those premises of Raška. Each of those who have bought so far have hired at least 50 more workers in the area of textiles, and the intention was to create an industrial zone from TEK Raška in which all those who process gins will be polluted by local rivers and saying that with their stones or in their technological process they will be replaced within the TeK Raška and that through this existing water collector they will be processed, cleaned, filtered and returned to the river as straight and clean. Enough is done on this plan, plenty of both state and local money invested. It is necessary to allow a tender for the sale of parcels to interested persons. Only two steps are needed for the Management Board to decide, to sign and forward the Privatisation Agency. I'm appealing to you for those people who strike, some for a reason, and for some you should check, to get foreign information. My questions are: how many workers are with a request for a court settlement for the payment of outstanding earnings; what is the amount to be paid for and when will be announced for sale to interested persons of part of the Tek Raška?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59681	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Radulovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Snezana Malovic, minister of justice, to be attended by Jovan Ćosic, head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, head of the Group at the Justice Ministry. We continue our work and move on to the principle search of the 2nd item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE PARK PROCEDURE You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as the distribution of parliamentary groups to the proportion of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, i.e. the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. The application for a word shall be accepted until the opening of a principled review of the draft law which is on the agenda. I would also like to inform you that according to this point in the agenda of the parliamentary group, the following MPs: MP Djuro Peric, MP of the PUPS; MP Judita Popovic, MP of the LDP; MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Jovan Palalic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Veroljub Arsic, MP of Serbia and MP Petar Jojic, MP of the SRS. If any other parliamentary group wants to vex one of its members or to change the mandate, please inform us about it, that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law on litigation. Before I ask if Minister Snezana Malovic's representative wishes to speak, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, and until the end of the work on the agenda that is currently under review, therefore, on the draft law on litigation. By the end of the debate on this bill, we will end our work for today. Although it is not strictly business opportunity and what we are going to do every day to explain how we are going to work, the work plan for this week is that the next day, from 10.00 hours to the end of work, we are discussing the Rehabilitation Law proposal, on Thursday from 10.00 hours, we are going to discuss the proposal for a law on business secrecy and joint agendas concerning decisions, and on Friday, if they get to the Rules of Procedure prescribed and the Government's opinion on amendments arrives, we are going to begin the search in detail on the amendments to the draft law on criminal proceedings, which we concluded yesterday. Every working day will, of course, be notified in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59682	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is a special honor and I am pleased that today is on Parliament's agenda, a draft law on litigation. This law is one of the most important laws for the citizens of our country. Given that the largest number of judicial proceedings are related to litigation procedures in which citizens and legal persons exercise the protection of their rights in civil matter. Until now, practice has shown that ineffectiveness of courts has been well conditioned by some solutions to the applicable law on litigation. In addition, a large number of constitutional complaints as well as performances before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which have been filed by citizens for violation of the right to a fair trial, i.e. infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Among other things, it has been noted that debtors profited at the creditor's expense through long-term and expensive litigation. Debt profit and seems to be another negative specificity that must be removed from our legal practice, especially in economic disputes. In addition, the practical application of certain provisions of material law in civil matter is not effective because of the lack of laws governing litigation. I would remind you that the applicable law on litigation was passed in 2004, amended and completed in 2009, in order to comply with the Constitution and judicial organisational laws. However, as I have already pointed out, this law did not allow litigation to end in a quick and effective way that certainly damages citizens' rights and legal certainty. For these reasons, it is necessary to pass a new law on litigation that will allow for a more efficient and economic procedure before courts and contribute to the legal certainty of all legal entities, which is the condition of our country's economic development. Also, in the meantime, the Law on Public Records and the Law on Implementation and Security has been passed, and it is therefore necessary to comply with those laws. In the law on litigation, it is necessary to incorporate all relevant recommendations of the Council of Europe, the views of the European Court of Human Rights and the parallel legislative solutions that are important for every democratic society, as well as for the protection of human rights and freedoms declared by the Constitution. In particular, when drawing up the proposed law on litigation, account has been taken of its compliance with international acts and other laws of the Republic of Serbia, the costs that its application will entail for all participants in the process. The work version of the proposed law was developed by a working group composed of representatives of judicial functions of all courts and types of courts, lawyers, professors of the Faculty of Law, as well as representatives of the resolution ministry. I would also point out that the work versions of the proposed law have been led by a broad public debate through round tables and by obtaining opinions from courts and lawyers. In addition, an analysis of the Council of Europe's experts was also provided. Now, in the shortest lines, I would like to present to you the most important new solutions that contain the draft law on litigation. The bill is divided into four parts. General provisions of this procedure, special procedures and transitional and final provisions. As regards the general provisions in the draft law, all the principles of the litigation under the applicable law have basically been maintained, with much more elaborated in the text of the law. Of the major newspapers, when it comes to the principles of litigation, I would point out that it is prescribed that the parties have the right to legal and equal protection of their rights, and the court has no right to refuse a decision on the legal matter for which it is responsible. The paper is also a solution which provides that the judicial decision of the criminal court in the case does not produce a legal fact against a person who has not had the opportunity or the right to participate in the criminal proceedings in which that decision has been taken. This solution, taken into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Austria, which found that the fact of a criminal verdict against non-participating persons, particularly in the case of an insurance company, would be an infringement of the right to access a court, i.e. an infringement of Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. The party's principle of disposition has been affirmed so that the parties' right to settle throughout the process to the full extent of the lawfulness, as well as the prosecutor's right to withdraw the suit, also to the lawfulness. The relevant law stipulates that the court is obliged to establish all the facts of which the decision on the basis of the claim depends, which in practice led to an extensive application of the investigation principle. In contrast, a solution is proposed which obliges the court to take into account only the facts proposed by the parties, in respect of which the evidence is made, while the court is an arbitration officer who appreciates it under the legal rules. As I said, the draft law pays particular attention to the principle of trial within the development period, in this sense it is foreseen that at the beginning of the litigation procedure, together with the litigator parties, the court will be obliged to set a timeframe for the taking of litigation actions, which will place the responsibility for the execution of the trial in a reasonable period of time on both the court and the litigation parties. The regulation of the court's obligation to determine the timeframe certainly represents one of the most significant newspapers in this bill. Instead of current legal solutions, by prescribing short and uniform deadlines for taking certain litigation actions, a systematic solution to this significant problem has been proposed by the Court of Justice to determine at the beginning of the procedure the timeframe for maintaining the hearing, carrying out evidence and taking litigation actions. Special attention is paid to the duties of security litigation and procedural discipline. In that sense, the parties are obliged to act "bonafide", and the court has the right and obligation to prevent and punish any abuse of procedural powers. As a special newspaper of the draft law, special local jurisdiction has been introduced in consumer rights disputes, and according to the consumer's residence. This kind of intervention was necessary because EU directives require specific consumer protection. The delegation of jurisdiction of the courts has been constrained with the present possibility of abuse of the institute, a meaningful delegation by prescribing the moment until a proposal for a delegation can be submitted. The motion for a delegation shall be submitted by the party if the court considers that such a proposal has been established, it shall submit a request for a delegation to the highest court of a particular kind in the Republic of Serbia. The first-degree court may apply for a delegation under the service of office. As regards the provisions which determine the composition of the court, the law has come from the Constitutional Provisions where the rule of trial is in the Chamber but also from the fact that the Constitution provides for an exemption from that rule. In that sense, the law was proposed, in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations, to judge an individual judge in the first instance. However, the law did not compromise the constitutional right to a chamber trial because the parties have the right to demand that they be tried more in a specific case. In proceedings before a second-degree court and on emergency legal remedies, the court always judges a bigger one. The provisions relating to the exclusion and exemption of the judge have been specified in relation to the legal solutions so far, by defining the deadlines and content of the request for exemption or exclusion and in order to prevent the abuse of this institute. It is also prescribed to the extent that an exemption and exclusion under the legal remedy may be required. In the head, the bill governing the power of attorneys contains a significant newspaper. Under the applicable law of power, any business, capable, physical person can be. The bill stipulates that the party can participate on its own or through a power of attorney only. This allows for a consistent implementation of a constitutional provision whereby legal assistance can only be provided by lawyers. The decision of the applicable law, which equalises a lawyer and any other person who does not have legal knowledge, is primarily unacceptable from the point of view of law, as a profession that implies multiple legal qualifications, completed law school, appropriate practice, a judicial examination, as well as specific criteria for the admission to law, and is also not in line with the Constitution. The proposed solution guarantees the integrity of the proceedings and the Court itself, as well as the fair, legal and effective protection of the rights of parties, and in the extreme line and the economy of the proceedings itself. In addition, it has been suggested that the party must in any case represent a lawyer on legal medicines. In line with the development of modern technology and appropriate practices in European and other developed countries, and following home experiences with the use of electronic communication, greater application of information technologies in the litigation process is envisaged. The possibility of sending submissions in electronic form is foreseen by the draft law, which regulates the field of electronic communication, such as the Electronic Signature Act, the Electronic Document Act and others. As I said at the outset, part of the bill that regulates deadlines and hearings is one of the biggest newspapers in relation to the current solution, since hearings can only be determined and maintained in accordance with the timeframe, which is determined by the court, after considering the proposal for litigation parties. The Court and the parties are obliged to adhere to a specific timeframe, and the hearing can only be postponed exclusively for the purpose of carrying out evidence or preventing the judge. In the event of a delay of the hearing, the court must establish a new timeframe for the implementation of the procedure. In this way, the economic and efficiency of the proceedings are contributed, and the parties to the proceedings also have a certainty regarding the length of the case. The draft law contains a paper relating to record keeping. It is proposed that the minutes may be drawn up on the basis of a tone and optical record, if technical possibilities exist in the court. Also, the parties were given the right to see such a guided record. The draft law also provides that the tone and optical record is to be transmitted in a written form which represents the minutes and which is to be attached to the case files. This enables faster implementation of the hearing and carrying out litigation actions on which the minutes are conducted, as the obligations of dictatorship are released, the parties and other litigation actions are cited to the notary. One of the most important newspapers contained in the bill refers to the delivery of letters, since existing legal solutions do not allow for effective handling of the procedure. The provisions of the applicable law on delivery are almost identical with the provisions of the Law on the criminal proceedings of 1957. In addition to overcoming these provisions, they pose a major problem for the conduct of the litigation process and allow for the abuse of procedural rights of parties. With that in mind, the bill contains solutions that are in line with the solution in comparison with legal legislation, especially Austria and Switzerland, where delivery is extremely effective. The draft law provides that the letters to be delivered shall be delivered to the address of the residence records, i.e. to the address in the register of legal persons, if the person to be served in writing is not to be found at the address and leave a written notice that he may raise in writing in court within 30 days and at the same time be placed on the court’s notice board, after which the delivery is deemed to have been carried out neatly. In this way, the possibility of unsuccessful delivery is excluded, thus allowing for a continuation of the proceedings and significantly reducing the length of the case. The paper also presents a solution, where parties can directly, with each other, or each other, deliver submissions, with the obligation to provide evidence of delivery to the court. The draft law also specifies the procedure for resolving the issue of law, given that the existing solution causes certain problems in practice. The case-law so far has shown that the first-degree courts in certain cases used this institute and when there were no prescribed conditions for this, in order to advance the position of the highest court. For that reason, it has been proposed that the Supreme Cassation Court, which is responsible for resolving the issue of the disputed legal issue, be refuted to resolve the disputed legal issue, if it is not relevant for decision-making in a number of cases, in proceedings before first-degree courts. That solution is in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The bill sets out in detail penalties for non-compliance with procedural discipline and for insulting the procedure, abuse of procedural powers and obstruction of litigation and delivery of letters. Given that the rights of litigating parties are recognised in order to protect their rights in the process, it is necessary to lay down sanctions for the use of these rights, contrary to purpose, which is why they are recognised, or their abuse. In addition, the procedure for the execution of fines has been specified, as problems have arisen in practice. Therefore, a solution is proposed to apply the provisions of the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions relating to the execution of fines in the event of non-payment of fines. The second part of the bill is governed by the course of the procedure. In the case of a complaint, the special paper is the proposed solution to extend the cases for the application for a finding, which is in line with the law that has been passed recently, such as the Law on Prosecution of Movement Matters, which is entered in the register and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, so that the claim for establishment can also be filed for the purpose of establishing the existence, i.e. there is no fact. In accordance with the amended principle of party disposition, it is possible to withdraw the action until the judicial end of the proceedings, if the defendant agrees, while under the applicable law, that possibility existed only until the legal debate was concluded. The paper in the bill provides a solution that the court can stop the procedure only when it is explicitly prescribed by a special law, and not when it considers that it is complete, which further speeds up the procedure and strengthens the principle of party disposition. With regard to the implementation of evidence of art, the bill provides for different solutions to the applicable law. According to the current legal solution, the expert exclusively determines the court, which in practice often led to the fact that the findings of the expert's opinion depend entirely on judgment, and in some cases the experts gave their opinion on legal matters. In accordance with the consistent application of the disputed principle, i.e. in accordance with the responsibility of the parties for the formation of an actual building as a basis for judgment, a solution has been proposed that the parties may hire experts from the register of judicial skills and attach their findings and opinions, where the Court appreciates all evidence and concludes in accordance with the rule on the burden of proof. The draft law provides that the conduct of evidence, by hearing witnesses, or parties, can be carried out through a conference link, i.e. the use of sound recording or optical recording devices. With regard to the preparation of the main debate, the most important news is the court's obligation to establish, together with the parties, at the preparatory hearing, the facts of which are controversial, the evidence to be carried out, and to establish a timeframe for the implementation of the procedure, which introduces a certainty in the length of the proceedings, which contributes to respecting the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In accordance with the principle of concentration of the main debate, which is provided for in the draft law, the court shall, as a rule, appoint one hearing for the main debate, if it considers it necessary, and it may be held several days consecutively, or at certain intervals, in accordance with the established timeframe. In connection with the main debate, the most significant newspaper represents, in view of the exercise of the right to trial within a reasonable period, the parties are obliged to present all facts at the first hearing for the main debate and to provide all evidence for their determination unless the preparatory hearing has been held. Until the main debate is concluded, the parties may present new facts and submit new evidence, only if they could not carry them out without their guilt, or propose them at the first hearing for the main debate. In the part of the proposal for a law relating to judicial alignment, it is envisaged that, in accordance with the principle of party disposition, there is a greater possibility of concluding the settlement, so that the judicial settlement can be concluded until the judicial conclusion of the procedure, unlike the existing solution, that the settlement can only be concluded until the first-degree procedure is completed. This solution is in line with the principle of peaceful dispute resolution. In accordance with the needs of case law, the definition of an interdetermination as its subject, sentence and legal nature is specified. It is predicted that the cross-judge may only have a positive saying, since it was not a rare amongst the judgments which the courts rejected the claim. Therefore, this type of judgment can only be decided on the basis of the claim, since it is by its legal nature a determining judgment. In order to strengthen procedural discipline in the Law on Procedural Procedure, the ruling was returned due to the absence. As well as in the current Law on the Procedural Procedure, as a regular legal remedy, an appeal is provided. The paper is a solution proposed that the appeal against a first-degree verdict, which is ordered to pay an amount not exceeding 300 euros for natural or 1000 euros for legal persons in dinar anti-values, has no suspension fact, which is in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation, which suggests that in such cases the right to appeal is limited or to introduce judicial approval for an appeal or non-suspensive fact of appeal. The draft law sets out the opening of the main debate before the second-degree court in order to remove conflicting case law, and given the positive effects of the ban on the double suspension of the first-degree ruling prescribed in the applicable law. When it comes to emergency legal medicines, the bill contains important newspapers concerning both the number and the possibility of making emergency legal medicines. In view of the solutions in parallel law, in particular Austria and Germany as countries having a similar legal tradition where direct audits exist only if the revision is a regular legal remedy, as well as the fact that during the application of the existing solutions there were only 26 direct audits compared to 4,000 regular audits, the bill does not contain a direct revision as an emergency legal remedy. The audit remained the same in basic characteristics, with the proposed narrowing down of absolutely significant infringements of the judicial procedure that could lead to the review, as well as the party's obligation to call for injuries in the appeal procedure. The bill provides that the proposal to repeat the procedure is the most important legal remedy. Accordingly, an extension of the reasons has been proposed, as well as an extension of the deadline for the statement of this legal remedy. Such a solution in accordance with the material and legal rules, in the general period of limitations, as well as the fact that the claim established by a judicial decision also goes out of date within 10 years. The third part of the bill contains provisions governing specific litigation procedures. In this part of the law, the most significant newspaper is the introduction of two new special procedures and this process in consumer disputes and the procedure for the protection of collective rights and the interests of citizens. The introduction of those procedures is a alignment with the EU standards and laws of other European countries that pay particular attention to consumer protection, as well as to the protection of collective rights, so it was necessary to provide for specific provisions to be applied in these types of disputes because of their specificity. The fourth law contains transitional and final provisions. For reasons of legal certainty, the procedures are to be initiated before the entry into force of this proposal of the law is implemented in accordance with the applicable law. Only in case the verdict is lifted and the case is returned to the retrial will a new trial be carried out in accordance with the new law. In addition, the law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 February 2012 in order to meet all relevant participants in the litigation process and prepare for its application. At the end of this presentation of the draft law on litigation I would like to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that after the debate in the National Assembly of the Laws will be adopted, creating normative assumptions for a more effective litigation procedure that will allow for better judicial protection in civil matter. Also, the adoption of this law is one of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in the process of gaining EU membership candidate status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59683	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that MP Mirko Chikiriz is authorised as a member of the ZES Group. Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does Mr Laslo Varga, president of the European Integration Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59684	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on Criminal Procedure, as well as the Law on Criminal Procedure, falls within the pillars of a judicial system or legal system in our country as a whole. The norms containing determine the degree of protection in the proceedings before courts, the most important rights and freedoms established by international acts, the Constitution and other laws of the Republic of Serbia. The new solutions provided for in this law stem from the situation in practice, which showed that the ineffectiveness of courts was well conditioned to some of the solutions in the applicable Law on the litigation process. It has been shown, for example, that debtors had benefited from the trustee’s bill for lengthy and expensive litigation. The debtor's profit as a bad phenomenon in current practice should be removed from the new solutions in the law because it is visible not only in the matter of classical civil law but it has been networked especially in trade or economic relations. All this says that it is necessary to pass a new law on litigation, which allows for more effective and economical proceedings before courts, thus increasing the faster and better exercise of citizens' rights foreseen by material laws. In the time since the adoption of the Law on Procedural Procedure, since 2004, the amendments made in 2009, the Laws on Public Records, the Law on Implementation and Security have been adopted, and the Law on the Regulation of Courts has been amended, and it is therefore necessary to comply with these laws in order to create a more favourable situation in civil matter. In addition, it was important for all relevant recommendations of the Council of Europe, as well as the European Court of Human Rights' rulings to be incorporated into the law. It is proposed in the law to set a time limit for the taking over of litigation proceedings at the beginning of the litigation proceedings. In this way, the parties would not be able to call for a breach of this principle by the court because they themselves participate in the time management of litigation. In court practice, it was particularly disputed whether the defendants could object to local malpractice and after responding to the complaint, or whether they had to do so in response to the suit. An acceptable solution has been proposed that the defendant is obliged to point out the objection of local indemnity in response to the complaint, except where the complaint is not delivered to the defendant for reply and is then obliged to object at the latest at the main hearing. In the light of the draft law, it is pointed out that in practice there have been problems with the distinction between a legal representative and a legal representative. Article 77 has defined that the representative of the legal person in the litigation procedure is the person entered in the relevant register, which is specified by a special regulation, by a general act of the legal person or by a court decision. The paper in the law is that the party in the proceedings can participate independently or through a power of attorney only. The PUPS parliamentary group on solutions provided for in Articles 77 and 85 has received many demands with Union arguments, social security organisations, businesses, as well as the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. As far as the Bar Association is concerned, it accepts and advocates the proposed solutions to these members, which is expected and logical. As for the others who have spoken to us, they suggest that Article 77, with the current text, adds that a representative be also a person with a completed law school and a passed judicial examination in the working relationship with the legal person of the party in the procedure to which the legal representative is authorised in the register. Similarly, it is proposed that the parties may take actions in the proceedings personally, through a legal representative, legal representative or through a power of attorney, to represent a lawyer in the legal remedy procedure, or if the party represented by a person with a completed law degree and a legal examination which is in the working relationship with the party. It is said that the proposed solutions in the law would have negative consequences as there would inevitably be layoffs for legal persons representing legal persons before courts. For example, there are over 20,000 litigation cases in the Republic Fund of PIO, and since the military fund will also be united in the common fund as of 1 January 2012, the number of cases will increase to 50,000. I think a lawyer's profession would be favored by people with the same qualifications. He's even suspected of the existence of the so-called. a legal lobby that has affected these solutions that are in the proposal. They call for the Constitution and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The trade unions highlight violations of the Labour Act, the Social Economic Council Act and Conventions No 87 and No 98. The PUPS parliamentary group had direct talks with representatives of some of those organisations and we accepted their proposals to submit on their opinions and states containing appropriate amendments, which will be discussed in particular. We think that they are in a lot of right because, for example, only in the PIO Fund does about 35 people with a passed judicial exam and practice that so far represented this one, which would lose future solutions that are proposed, working relationship. That's the way it is in most other organizations. The biggest newspaper of the proposed law provides for deadlines and hearings. According to the proposal, the hearing can only be determined and maintained in accordance with the timeframe, which is determined by the court after considering the proposal of the litigation parties. The hearing can be postponed we are extremely due to the execution of evidence or the prevention of a judge. A special paper, the law provides for when a claim can be filed for the fortification. A solution is proposed in which the claim for a finding can also be brought in order to determine the existence, i.e. the absence of a certain fact. In accordance with the cross-legislative legislation, it is introduced as a newspaper of the necessary rivalry, Art. 212 which exists in the case where it is prescribed by law or because of the nature of the legal relationship with the suit must be covered by all persons who are involved in a material legal relationship. With regard to the implementation of evidence, the draft law provides for a different solution to the applicable law. Under the current law, the expert is determined exclusively by the judge, often leading to the fact that artificial findings and opinions depend exclusively on judgment. We think this was a bad practice in the process of a lot of subjectivism. Therefore, the PUPS fully supports the proposal that the parties themselves can engage in court-art registers and propose their findings and opinions, where the Court appreciates all evidence and concludes in accordance with the burden of proof rule. It is also a significant paper in the preparation of the main debate, where the court's obligation to establish together with the parties at the preparatory hearing all the facts of the dispute, the evidence to be carried out, and to establish a timeframe for the implementation of the procedure, which creates a certainty in the length of the proceedings, which contributes to respecting the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. As regards the main debate, the party is obliged to present all the facts at the first hearing and to submit all evidence for their determination unless the provisional hearing has been held. Changes in emergency legal medicines are proposed, as there is a disproportionate number of regulars in the applicable law compared to emergency legal medicines. Thus, starting from a comparative procedural right, it is proposed to delete direct audit as an emergency legal remedy. Instead of an emergency legal remedy, a claim for the protection of legality is envisioned a new legal remedy, a request for review of a judicial verdict, which can be submitted exclusively by a republican public prosecutor. So far, the party has been able to handle it. We believe that it was just extraordinary legal medicines, there were four, that were a significant factor in the length of the litigation process, because it was often misused. The big news in the new law is the introduction of two new special procedures: the procedure in consumer disputes and the procedure for the protection of collective rights, the interests of citizens. This solution is also in line with EU standards, especially with consumer protection. Finally, we believe that the deadline is too long in Article 508 and we propose that the law enter into force on 1 February 2012. In our opinion, it would be better if he came into force on January 1st, instead of February 1st. In general, many changes have been made in the bill, i.e. many new solutions resulting from court practice, which will be of great importance to the more efficient and quality work of litigation courts. Due to everything said, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this proposal, hoping that the government will accept the amendments we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59685	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59686	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as said in the opening statement, the existing Law on Prosecution was adopted in 2004. Certain amendments and additions were made in 2009 in order to comply with the Constitution. Otherwise, it is true that the current law has caused certain controversy and that some of its provisions have been challenged before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the practice so far has shown the ineffectiveness of courts in the litigation process and it is clear from everything that it is necessary to pass a new law, which, among other things, will enable a more efficient and economic process, and more effective enforcement of citizens' rights provided for by material laws. So, one of the most serious problems and the most painful points of our judiciary is certainly the length of court disputes. Among them, unfortunately, adversaries of litigation. It takes an unwarranted amount of time, a lot of them don't end up. The fact is that the effectiveness of litigation procedures, namely the legal framework governing this particular area, depends on the level of civil rights protection before the court. Therefore, the adoption of a new law on litigation has, I would say, a special, exceptional importance for the functioning of the rule of law, the protection of civil and human rights as the obligation of every modern, legally regulated state to bear witness to the maturity of society itself, as well as the adaptation of international norms and documents to which we are bound by membership in international associations, but also our strategic interest to become a member of the EU. In order to create a new procedural environment in Serbia, of course, it is important to pass a law that will be in line with the laws recently adopted in the Republic Parliament, such as the Law on Public Registration, the Law on Implementation and Security, but also the amended Law on the Regulation of Courts, and, of course, that it is necessary in the law on the litigation of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights rulings and, of course, to take into account the legislative solutions of other modern states, as is also done and as stated in the interpretation of this legislative proposal. It is good that there was an intention to hold a quality public debate. This was the case in the opening statement, but given that it was an extremely important area, an extremely important topic, as one of the most important legislative acts of a country has been said among other things, we are asking the first question – how is the public debate organised. Why, for example, were legal persons who had an exceptional impact on Serbia's economy not involved in a public debate? How many and are the objections and suggestions included and how different is this text that we are talking about today compared to the initial text prepared by the Ministry of Justice? The new law should make the litigation procedure, as we could hear among other things, more effectively, the exercise of civil rights faster and safer, and the judiciary more responsible. Therefore, the legislator fully wanted to deal with essential problems when it comes to this type of procedure. These fundamental changes concern the provisions relating to the effectiveness of the trial. It is known that the lengthening of litigation, mainly due to compensation for damages and outstanding claims, has often led to an obsolescence of cases or judgments that have been at the expense of the complaining party. Often, citizens are forced to address international court cases, with the state getting judgments on its damage and thus losing huge resources, all due to the ineffectiveness of the judicial authorities facing the lawsuit. A large number of exactly these disputes before international courts are not, unfortunately, a commendation for a modern legally regulated country with more effective regulations in the field of litigation legislation. That's why a new law on litigation is expected. The bill contains newspapers that are currently leading towards efficient, economical, and for citizens, a safe procedure in front of courts, which is of paramount importance. This is confirmed by the provisions of the laws relating to time-limits. As I have already said, delaying court proceedings, mostly leads our citizens to the European Court of Human Rights, before which they sue the state. It is therefore well-proposed that at the beginning of the litigation proceedings, the court and the parties in the proceedings agree on deadlines for the taking of certain procedural proceedings. That's how it's avoided now, I'd say, the most pronounced problem, which is precisely calling parties in a dispute over the violation of the principle of trial within a reasonable time. A significant newspaper, and that's what a colleague in his earlier presentation said, refers also to the court's local jurisdiction, but also to the court's composition, the court judges in the council, but can also judge an individual in a first-degree procedure. In particular, I would say, I see a fellow MP and also an expert public, given that we, within the Parliament club, have received certain statements and memos, have triggered provisions concerning representation before the court. With the proposed solutions, they are a member of 77, and it seems to me that a member of 85 distinguishes the concept of a legal representative and a legal representative. The legal representative shall be a person entered in the relevant register, if specified by a special regulation, by a general act of the legal person or by a decision of the court. In practice, it's a lawyer. This puts an end to the possibility of a legal person representing a graduate lawyer who is employed in a legal person dealing with judicial protection of the right of the legal person in which he is employed. Our opinion is that he is raising a serious problem with himself, and this is the possibility that, because of such a legal solution, this very provision, without a job, many graduate lawyers with huge experiences and interests remain without a job, and many with a passed judicial exam. So, with the same professional qualifications, as well as legal agents, i.e. lawyers. That, of course, I am convinced, is not the wish or interest of the legislator, i.e. you, Mrs Malovic. We draw attention to this problem and ask that it be reconsidered. In this context, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, and I think the PUPS parliamentary group, has submitted amendments to the desire to reach as high-quality content of the law as possible, which will not be harmful but to the benefit of citizens and businesses in the country, those that are the most important segment of the society's economy. The newspaper in the law I want to welcome is the possibility that the party will use modern forms of communication. We think that's good enough and that's what we're talking about. Also, major procedural progress is also a legal solution related to deadlines and hearings. It's a good thing the hearings can only be superseded. This exceptionalness relates to the needs of carrying out evidence and the justified prevention of a judicial judge. The procedural paper is also in the way in which the written submission, in addition to the intended means, is considered to be a written notice of a letter which the party may raise in court within 30 days. We are convinced that this solution really contributes to the reduction of the possibility of avoidance of parties to receive a court order, which all leads to a delay in the case. A special newspaper, and this has already been discussed, include provisions relating to the execution of evidence of art. There are completely new solutions to the existing law. A new solution to which the expert may propose a party in the process, not only the court, as so far, certainly contributes both efficiency and justice in the process. It's also important that the party can only hire an expert in the register of judicial skills. From this as well as from other provisions of this legislative proposal, we conclude that according to the provisions of this law, the litigation will take place with the participation of parties and courts. All participants must have one active and responsible relationship with the court procedure. It is not only the court that is responsible for the outcome, but also the parties to the proceedings. Procedural property is also an opportunity to make a settlement until a judicial verdict, not as before the completion of the first-degree procedure. This allows parties to be able to settle all the way to the end of the dispute, which we consider to be a good solution. A major impact on the length of the litigation process had the legal possibility to use emergency remedies, i.e. legal remedies. It also stalled the procedure. That is why we believe that the abolition of the direct review as an emergency remedy will contribute to the reduction of the procedure. Instead of a direct audit, the right to protect legality is introduced, i.e. to review a judicial verdict, where this right belongs exclusively to a republican public prosecutor. We believe that the envisaged procedural papers in this law will contribute much more effectively to the conduct of judicial litigation, that they will contribute to more effective and fairer protection of human and civil rights, which should be the interest of all of us. As a positive newspaper here, I highlight newspapers relating to the Consumer Rights Institute through a new court procedure on consumer disputes. We believe that the solutions offered are more high-quality in many of the solutions in the existing law that was passed in 2004, and as I said, something amended in 2009, and that, with good preparation, the reorganisation of judicial authorities would have to give positive effects very quickly. What I once again want to say to the very end is that we accept this legal proposal in principle. We have submitted certain amendments, and we will discuss this more precisely in the discussion in detail. Once again, we urge you to pay attention and put an accent on the amendments tabled by your colleagues from the PUPS and the SPS-JS Parliament Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59687	Thank you. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59688	Dear Presidency, Ms Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law ahead of us. We can say that the Code of Criminal Procedure is kind of a code where the interests and interests of the state are weighed in order to regulate the law itself on criminal proceedings, in relation to the interest of parties and citizens. I think that the Law on Prosecution is something that is of fundamental interest and essential importance to every citizen. In that sense, we consider him one of the most important laws. This law, regardless of what is public, and could also be heard in the Assembly, in comparison with the Code of Criminal Procedure, is treated as a code which has better solutions, certainly there are a number of things we want to discuss here today and point to possible problems in the course of the litigation process itself. It can be said that the full approach of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the justice ministry since the beginning of 2009, has been to sort of come out of a problem called inefficiency. Somehow, it was the engine of a full reform of the judiciary that began from changes in the organisational sense, after changes in the legislation. The key question is, did that happen? Today, much has been said that this code of litigation will solve this ineffectiveness. It cannot be seen separately without being linked to the very reform of the judiciary in terms of the organisational changes and effects they have already given. I must say that in the debate that was held here in 2009 in the National Assembly, we have just pointed out that it is not adequately taken into account the fact that the inflow of cases in litigation is increasing annually and that this, in agreement with the changes that have been made, is referring to the reduction of the number of courts, to the change in the position of judges in terms of moving from one court to another, is going to resolve or reduce the resolution, specifically, of litigious disputes. In all the analyses we've had to see so far, we see that ineffectiveness has increased, that the number of cases that are not being solved is much higher than it was before 2009. If we want to be honest and say it, it's the result of these changes. The result is that ineffectiveness has increased. We have heard the story that this will now be resolved when the law on litigation comes, which will speed up this whole story and that the litigation procedure, which has been criticised since one procedure, and we have heard now in all the reports that you have made in Serbia, I consider as one law that blocks the exercise of basic civil rights, now it will fix that thing. Of course, the first thing that needs to be done is to fix this state that has been created by the 2009 reform that failed. It will be a moment when the government of the Republic of Serbia itself will have to say so, and the professional public and the judiciary think so. I don't know if that's what the justice ministers say, but I believe that these voices have reached out to her and that the very professional public who expected that reform a lot, now thinks that the reform has not yielded results. As for the Code of Criminal Procedure, we again have a problem that we pointed out when the changes were made in 2009. It is not possible to place as a top priority the speed of dispute resolution and that this occurs at the heart of the correct determination and accurate determination of the facts and decision-making on the basis of the truth established in the litigation procedure. We have it back here now. I'm going through a series of institutes that show up here. Of course, there are solutions that are good and that can certainly, if these problems are removed, bring the litigation process into the position in which we expect it to be, which is that the procedure does not last long, to prevent this, what you said, profiting the debtors, but at the same time to enable the determination of what is a real factual situation and not to apply material law and judgment based on untrueness. I fear that in some solutions this litigation can lead to this, to the end of the case quickly, to a verdict, but that someone suffers injustice and does not feel that it was just and that it was true and true. Our key observation is that there is currently no respect for the reality in which the situation of our citizens and our economy and the structure of the objects that we have in practice today. I don't know what was the motive to raise the level of slowness for small-value disputes? Mrs. Malovic, I believe you have insight into the structure of the case that comes into litigation courts. I believe you know that the number of objects below 3,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, is incomparably higher than those that cross that value. This also refers to business disputes where it is defined here that the slow low value in economic disputes is 30,000 euros in dinar equivalent. What can really happen in practice and it will happen? That the whole general litigation procedure, which you've arranged here, with all these new institutes that you've listed here, doesn't actually live in real life at all, but that small-value disputes live, that the whole litigation process actually becomes slow little values. How many of us now have cases in this poor Serbia, where citizens end up with 300,000 dinars? Very small number of objects. How many cases will the general litigation be applied to? A very small number. Now that's where we get the key problem. What do we have in the procedures where the shortened procedure is applied, so-called. The procedures and the litigation of small value? We have a significant slave to the rights of citizens in this process. I repeat again, these cases must be over 80% in the structure of the items that are arriving, especially in small vessels. Look, there are fellow lawyers here, let them honestly say what the values of the disputes they represent, especially in the smaller environments, which are now the biggest issue and the biggest problem. In small-value disputes, you don't have a preparation hearing. The question of determining the actual state, you've seen how it's solved. The right to appeal, a very important right, here is excluded from disputing a first degree verdict for an incompletely established factual state and, above all, in a realistic sense, you are in fact losing any legal remedy. There is no speech on the revision, and the request for a repeat procedure in that case is almost impossible. In fact, it's impossible, because the only real point, we're talking about the real state, the only real point, that everyone connects to when they make a request for a repeat procedure, is that point 10, that the party finds out about the new facts and finds and acquires the opportunity to use new evidence. So 80% of the cases, when an emergency legal remedy is declared to repeat the procedure, are binding to this point. There are very rare cases that this is exactly how the court drastically violates the law, that other points are used to declare this extraordinary legal remedy. So, in the largest number of cases in Serbia, after the adoption of this law, the party will not be able to refute the verdicts due to an incomplete factual state and will not be able to make a statement in fact by any emergency legal remedy. This is the state you have led to, which will lead to a lawsuit in Serbia by raising the value of the dispute for small-value disputes to 3,000 euros. It's a serious and big problem. The same is true of small-value disputes when it comes to economic disputes. Again in a situation where the economy is in such a state as it is now, what is the number of disputes at all now held by 30,000 euros? The companies are in a blockade, they don't have the means to pay off the profits, and we're yelling and talking about such disputes. So these disputes will turn into low-value disputes, too. Therefore, one is a wish, one is a real life, and in real life your general litigation will not have a real application and that is the basic problem. You knew it very well, and that's our basic criticism, because you're actually going to speed up the process, that's a fact. If a reduced litigation is applied, it will be realistically accelerated, but at the heart of the truth and at the heart of the correct and fully established factual state. We criticised the audit in 2009. That's when I said I expected it to be a million euros. It's not a million euros, the same solution has been retained, but I didn't get an answer then why 100 thousand euros? Try now in your answer to give us an answer why 100,000 euros? The audit is a very significant legal remedy. In a situation where the party is unable to state any further requests for a strong verdict, when a direct audit has been lifted, the request for a repeat procedure is practically reduced to what I said. I don't know how many disputes there will be where the review will be announced. Here, let's ask the citizens if they heard between the two individuals that a 100,000-euro dispute was being conducted? How many cases are there in Serbia? So there won't be any audits. That's what to say. And it's probably part of the strategy that everything that can be used to shorten procedures and prevent foreigners from using all the funds they've had so far, to determine the truth and to be able to exercise their rights in litigation. It is also an observation of economic disputes, where it was raised to 300,000 euros. This lists the trial within a reasonable period of time and determines the time frame. We agree in principle with this approach, but there are several problems that may arise. First, we are not sure, because of the different interests of the parties, that they will succeed in agreeing on that timeframe. In our amendment, we felt that it was necessary to specify the deadline until which the first-degree litigation procedure should be completed and that, regardless of all the dilemmas the prosecutor has and the defendant's actions should be carried out, and it is always in the interest of the defendant to last as long as possible, to limit those deadlines. It's something we find very important. In the case of an individual judge, it is true that the possibility is respected here that the parties decide to judge the larger one, but because of the importance of the disputes, where the revision can be declared, we felt that in disputes where the audit can be declared, we should judge the larger one. In that sense, we have also tabled an amendment. When it comes to submissions, I don't see what we've really received by allowing parties to submit submissions to each other, only that they can create additional problems and do not need to complicate the matter, that one party delivers to the other, and then informs the court. We think it was the safest thing to do and that it could prevent any abuse from keeping the solution that the delivery of the submission still goes through court. This is very interesting that you mentioned, as you said, that the verdict in the criminal proceedings does not extend to non-participating persons. What about the rivals? You also have necessary rivals, these are litigators that are truly covered. So how can we avoid the judgment of one rival, against whom the trial is conducted, not affecting another rival in the process? The colleagues who know that, it's simply impossible for that verdict to affect the process. You stated that you had a suggestion, I didn't remember exactly which international organisations, but the rival institute you're working on here in detail, and I don't see how this legal situation is going to work out in that case. A revised first-degree verdict by a second-degree court, that is, according to our opinion, a first-degree verdict. We believe that there must be a right to appeal. So, regardless of the fact that we want to speed up the process, if it is possible for that first-degree verdict to be changed, when the second-degree court has the right to do so, we believe that it is necessary to allow the parties, it is the constitutional right that the party then has the right to make a complaint. When it comes to warlocks, there's been a lot of debate about witches, and here, it's a potential for parties to propose real practice skills. Yes, the court adopted most of the demands concerning the suggestion of the experts, which seemed to be the parties themselves. This is where the right party increases, but this still requires one description. That bias in the skills that's happening, there are colleagues who have had the chance to meet with it, it's mostly about who suggested the artist. To speak openly, whoever pays, he'll be able to expect the expert's findings to be more on the side of who suggested it. Therefore, it should have left much greater disposition of the court when it comes to the art of proposing. The basic problem that is related to the fact that most of the disputes, as I said, will focus on small-value disputes, in fact, a large number of cases that dominate, the parties will not have the opportunity to declare extraordinary remedies. Another problem affecting the fact that the parties de facto will be denied access to justice, is value, cost of the process and a highly taxed policy. We will come into a situation that a small number of citizens will be able to even initiate a litigation procedure, and even when it does, it will be speedy and resolved in this way so that the correct truth cannot be determined. Therefore, these are some key remarks. We have tried through our amendments to this fact to limit the deadline, fix and specify. In the possibility of delaying the case, as you have predicted here and setting a new time limit, we felt that we should not leave the party and court in disposition again in a new way that may be longer than the original deadline. We felt that this party should also be limited, if it is already going to the fact that the duration of the procedure is reduced. That's what we've invested through our amendment. Regardless of some of the solutions relating to the limitation of the duration of the deadlines, this law has solutions that could be acceptable, the fundamental problem is that you had the ultimate intention of raising the level of value for small-value disputes and revisions, preventing the general litigation process, the consensual state and the problems in which the Serbian society, in which the citizens are located, say the needy, who do not have the opportunity to pay the starting tax, come into a situation at all to fully apply these institutes that you have here. That's the essential question. The essential question is whether a citizen will be able to exercise his right at all, as you have defined here. Your policy of change in the judiciary, reducing the number of courts, new roles that judges play in the trials, increasing tax policy, increasing the value of disputes, had one goal – let us resolve the cases as soon as possible, but suffer the truth, suffer justice, and, most importantly, suffer the right of the citizen to exercise his right. I think this law on litigation has had a chance to settle, but with these problems, it will create additional problems and additional burdens for the citizens themselves. In the debate on amendments, we will highlight all our objections, but without any changes relating to the judiciary itself, without correcting those mistakes made in 2009 and which led essentially to the non-resolvement of the case and to the huge inflow now in the drawers, this law will only further burden the judiciary and will not solve the key problem that we all expected to solve, which is the short duration of the case, but to establish the truth and to achieve citizens' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59689	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59690	Dear Presidents, Ms. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP supports amendments and additions, or a new law on litigation, which has received some changes compared to the previous law on litigation, of 2009. It thus improved something called a litigation procedure. We support every kind of change that has been proposed to achieve a positive effect, and for this reason we have no problem with them changing, however new and unusual they are for Serbia's legal system, we accept and support them. The formula for a good trial in Serbia's litigation system is, firstly, a reasonable trial. So far, we have had a major problem with long-term trials, which lasted for years. So the trial could never be measured in months but in years, dozens of years. With the amendments that this law provided for, this time frame is much more positive. In the party's preparatory procedure, together with the judge, they agree on how this trial will run, how many hearings are required for the main debate, so that it is not unknown to either the court or the parties, how long the proceedings will take, if all of them stick to the agreement reached. The next element for a good trial is to establish clear rules on the burden of proof. In this law, we can find elements and such types of approach by the legislator that the burden of proof is clearly defined in relation to one that represents or claims certain facts. So he's bound to provide evidence of his claim and of those facts he wants to prove. So it's a pretty rational approach and a pretty good approach, if you want to establish responsibility for the participants in the litigation process. If a person has the right to be tried, to file charges, to file evidence, therefore, participates in litigation proceedings, he has some kind of responsibility both to the court and to the other party, in respect of the course of the trial, and cannot possibly abuse his right, he is also responsible for how important it is for that party who proposes that certain evidence be brought forward. The next element is, in fact, the judge, who now has the role of the arbiter and one objective, neutral arbiter, who listens to those evidence and performs the evidence that the parties have proposed and based on the overall evidence procedure, assesses and determines whether the facts have been established and who has actually proved one of their rights to which they are called. So, these three elements, if they can be found in this law, is one good step and it is a positive development of the litigation process in Serbia. So we don't have a problem with accepting the paper, and we don't have a problem with everything that's directed towards efficiency, economics and rationalisation of the litigation process, but we think there's too little news. So you can still see certain relapses and in this law on litigation, and we think that we'll probably be back in a few years, maybe even earlier to get to the agenda some draft law on amendments and additions to this law on litigation. That’s not a problem either, because it’s good to see mistakes and it’s good if it’s wanted and it’s willing to fix these mistakes, that is to say, to correct some shortcomings in the law. Therefore, the practice itself will show how far this law has strayed from the previous law and future participants in the litigation process will give the final court. It is up to us MPs, that here, during the debate in principle and in detail, we point out exactly what the shortcomings of the law are and that these shortcomings should also be addressed during yesterday's debate on the law on criminal proceedings, certain shortcomings of the bill have been clearly defined. Therefore, the integrity of this assembly and each MP depends on how capable we are to change the bill at the outset and to force the executive authority to accept some good amendments in order to remove a later need to change the law, by some new law. In this law, we have noticed one solution that is somehow different from all the principles that are listed in the reasoning of the bill that we support and points to some controversy over whether it protects anyone's interests. I would refer to Article 3(2) of the Law, which in fact defines how the judicial decision of the Criminal Court in the case works, whether it produces a legal fact or not. In this position of the 2nd member, the judicial ruling of the criminal court in the case does not produce a legal fact, if it is a third party who did not participate in the criminal proceedings, and we know very well that this can most often be applied to insurance companies, therefore, the insurance company does not normally participate in criminal proceedings, the defendant is the one who has committed a possible criminal offence in relation to traffic and security of traffic and insurance companies that will actually pay for damages, when the criminal proceedings, litigation, etc. Now the insurance company appears as a third party in a litigation process, the question arises – if some facts are already being debated in criminal proceedings, we see that the Code of Criminal Procedure is much faster, much more effective now with this new proposal, than so far, why now to repeat the determination of all these facts in the case, why again we are doing something that is contrary to the declared principle of efficiency, rationality, economics, etc. I do not think it is good to approach the proposal in this way, i.e. the adoption of such a complex law, such as the law on litigation procedure, that one’s individual interest is somehow put in the first place, and in this Article paragraph 13(2) is put first in the interest of the insurance company, the most often insurance company, is the third person that appears in the case after the criminal proceedings. This member himself and in the previous law had a certain purpose, he had his own particular role, which was quite positive in this regard, since it facilitated the work of a litigation court in determining certain facts, i.e. the performance of evidence. So, this law on litigation is good in our opinion, but it has missed certain things to improve, it has missed the opportunity to be much better, and we think that the development of this matter is too slow for those challenges that our society and our country have in this transition that cannot stop, and we cannot overcome it, and especially because we are looking at a bid to join the European Union, so for this reason we believe that we should have made it much clearer to approach the reform of the law on litigation. So we believe that the development of this matter is too slow and that we should work much faster on reforming the litigation process, because the litigation process is one of the elements for this legal security of citizens in Serbia and without a valid such procedural law we will not achieve a fairer trial, no faster trial, no better access to justice, and we will have many negativity on the economic agenda, given that foreign investors and that they are interested in how they can protect their investments and their capital. So, legal certainty is the one that should always be our goal, this society, this state, and the way we're going to achieve that legal certainty is actually that we're making good laws that can and can apply, it's not enough to have a good law, it's a law that has to be applied. Therefore, the Liberal Democratic Party supports any kind of change and complementarity, any kind of reform aimed at harmonising domestic legislation with regulations, the European Union's positive regulations and European Union standards, because these standards will also, in fact, improve the lives of citizens in Serbia, and what is, in fact, the aim of law-making, to create such a legal framework that will ensure one stability, social and economic development of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59691	Thirteen minutes used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd be unfair if I said that writing this law was not a great effort, but it seems to me that the guidelines to which the law itself was written were often bad. I'd also be unfair, if it weren't for one attempt to speed up this lawsuit, or litigation, but there's a lot of solutions proposed by this law, I can't call them the happiest for those who are going to be kind, or forceful, to get into some litigation. It is often mentioned, whenever a law is passed, its constitutional basis, and at the very beginning of the law, it is seen that what is guaranteed by the Constitution, which is that all before the law and before the courts are completely equal, is already being violated among the first members of the bill. You can already see that in Article 7. The bill and the work that the minister has even explained, it is said, the court will consider and determine only the facts that the parties have presented and bring out only the evidence that the parties have proposed, if the law is not otherwise prescribed. So the question arises – what will be the verdict? Is it in the interest of the Government, or the Ministry of Justice, that the judgments that the courts are going to make correspond to the factual and material state, or only on the basis of the evidence that the parties perform in the proceedings, which often do not correspond to the factual and material state, because one of the parties that conducts the litigation does not have the means to hire, for example, an expert who will give counter-intelligence in relation to the skills of the other party? The court has no obligation to hire an expert to reconcile those two skills and give some credible truth. Will the party who has more money to hire various private agencies, etc., obtain these evidence for it and hide the evidence, of course, which does not suit it, because the other party does not have such a material condition and does not have the means to react in a certain way. However, it should be left to the courts that they also establish on the basis of evidence that the judge wants to carry out, and not only on the evidence proposed by the parties, that the right verdict which is credible in the material situation should be reached. This is supposed to speed up the process, reduce the costs of the courts, however, Madam Minister, when I say that we are not all equal before the law, it is seen when citizens sue for something state. These disputes last for 10 years and more, only because the one who is sad is often represented by a senior official of some political party or high-ranking official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the judge must not even take any action when it comes to the responsibility of the state authorities. I often have objections and complaints from a certain Blagojevic Dragica, of the municipality of Golubac, who has been suing the Ministry of Defence for 10 years, to find out which disease her healthy child died from and cannot possibly be scheduled for a hearing to be held. If this law is going to fix it, then it makes sense, not to talk about litigation that citizens lead against our public enterprises, where they literally went into possession, so they're waiting for the first hearing in a few years. What are we talking about, then, that we're all in front of the law and the Constitution equal? If this bill will solve it, and I doubt it will, then you have our support. However, this law was written by certain structures in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which should represent only the government, or your ministry, rather than representing the interests of certain parties to which they would be involved in some kind of procedure. You can see that in article 85. The bill, where it is said that – parties can take action in the process of a personal or power of attorney. You said it was a compliance with the Constitution. Let's take a look at what the Constitution says. In Article 37. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that every person has legal capacity. So that's what decisions are made on what he's going to do in some procedure. Article 67 provides for the right to legal aid under certain conditions. The following is said: legal aid is provided by lawyers, as an independent service and legal assistance services established in local self-government units, but it does not matter. When a lawyer represents a party in a litigation procedure, can it be called legal aid? It can't be done. In the litigation procedure, it is not legal aid, it is a service to be charged. Legal aid is in criminal proceedings, for a person who can't provide a lawyer, to be represented by a free lawyer appointed by a court of law. This is the provision of a service, this is charged and behind this is the legal lobby located in your ministry, which has just come out of this office. That's the problem, if it's a lawyer's lobby, we'll see in the next attitude. In the next position, the party must be represented by a lawyer in the legal treatment procedure, unless he is only a lawyer. You're saying that a party who doesn't have the money to pay for a lawyer who's capable of writing any kind of complaint herself won't be able to write a complaint and refer to a court of law, just because he doesn't have the money to pay a lawyer, he'll lose the dispute and the property. So you're saying that Professor Dr. Law is supposed to hire the lawyer who took his professional exam to write him a complaint. He won't write, he'll write that law professor, and he'll just charge 100 or 200 euros, as you say, 100 or 200, as you say. What about lawyers working on public enterprises and private businesses? Simplely, it was cheaper for legal owners to hire a lawyer with a lawsuit, to represent them in court, than to pay huge sums to lawyers. Will you leave them out of work, too? So that's what the senselessness of what's written here in Article 85 is about, and I don't think something's going to be very effective, because it's not a problem with parties when it's carrying out evidence in a litigation process. The parties shall formulate their request before the court in one way or another, and the court proceedings shall commence. The biggest problem is that it's stalling with court proceedings, often it's the power of attorneys themselves, because they don't charge the most proportionate success in the dispute, but after going to the hearing, so that's what happens if the hearing is held, and half of it doesn't hold up, so we'll keep writing some submissions, so we'll keep proposing this, so that, while at the end of the dispute itself, we'll lose the value already paid to the lawyer. That's what it looks like in practice. This article 85 certainly does not comply with the Constitution. It is not in accordance with the Constitution, because it is guaranteed the human right that the party can decide who will, when and whether to represent it before the court, except when it comes to criminal law. Be assured that this will be the subject of the Constitutional Court's work, at least this position 2. It's a bill of law. If you're saying parties have to be represented by lawyers, let's make a law on free legal aid, because then you're really going to bring article 85 into line with article 67. The law, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You nod that it would be written, and I'd like it to be in force before this law is in force, but then we went in reverse order. Never mind. You're saying the big problem is delivery in a litigation procedure? I agree. The big problem was just the execution of judgments, so you decided by law to allow even some agencies to do so, to manage them as they know and know how, to execute a judicial solution, to charge some of the support that has been achieved through court by a judicial verdict, but what you wrote in Article 140, at least in one part, are really some things, slightly, not to say, I don't think they're impossible. This is how, if the person to whom the letters are delivered is not found in his apartment, the delivery is done by handing over the letters to one of his adult household members who is obliged to receive it in writing. You know what, it's often about deadlines in the litigation procedure, it's not about guilt. That it's guilty, so let's make some sense, but here's the case. So let's go hypothetically. If he's a member of a family or a household of mother-in-laws. Maybe he doesn't like the son-in-law. Maybe. Will he take it? Maybe he will, but he won't show it to him. So what do we do? Or, if delivery is done in the workplace. The person to whom it is delivered in writing shall not be found, the delivery shall be carried out by the person who is in the same place for the sake of his consent to receive it. I know what human relations are like in many companies, especially in public enterprises, and these here because each one of them is afraid, the government employees are willing to do anything and anything to keep it from themselves. Not to talk about who they are and what initiatives they can be among them. Who guarantees that this employee who accepts to receive a call or some submission on which the other party should plead that he really gives to whom it is intended? Nobody. The following attitude states: "If the delivery could not be carried out under the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, the delivery will be carried out by impaling the letters at the door of the apartment or the premises of the legal person and thus considered to have been delivered." Madam Minister, I come from Braničevsky County. Braničevsky County has about 200 thousand full - age citizens and of those 200,000 full - age citizens, about 60 thousand are out of the country. Since our people like to be tried, they like to argue, and nowhere in this law does it say they have to deliver the address on which the person is abroad, but the address found by the state authority responsible for keeping the records, who in 30 days will be coming, say, from Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, to visit his own door, whether someone nailed a call for a trial or left a deadline to plead on some basis? It's hardly real. It seems to me that only one wish was made to make a bill that at least seems to make something possible, and in fact what allows most is abuse by both legal advocates and by the parties who are going to conduct the procedure, and even by the promoters that courts do not determine the material and factual state, but some other procedural circumstances under which judgments are to be made. If you've already been prepared to allow the agencies to execute judgments, if it can't be a public postal operator, then put in law that he has an agency for that, so let them deliver, or let him stay in the way of the current solution. Like this, this is the worst. The courts may work more efficiently, but the judgments that are given will not fit materially and effectively. They don't answer the truth. That's the problem with this law. That's why the SNS won't vote for this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59693	It was used 15 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want a word from the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary group? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59694	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, this is a blow to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia does with amendments, additions and revision of the Serbian judiciary and Serbian legislation. I ask the government what he's going out with in front of Milosh? Who's Milosh? Milos is the public, primarily the professional public, the MPs and this House of Commons as the highest legislative body. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, respected professionals, I have received a letter from me to point out in these discussions the great problems of judicial and legislative reform. The public or professional public suggests that the speedy measures of judicial reform brought without consultation, respect for the professional public and the implementation of them have caused numerous and significant problems and have shaken the foundations of Serbia's legal system. What's this about? Ladies and gentlemen, it is the fact that the motionary takes the right to ignore, to disrespect the professional public who has directed me to make a certain appeal in this House that certain things should be improved and some to redecorate and prevent them. These professional audiences are doctors, professors and academics – Danilo Basta, Ratko Marković, Momcilo Grubač, Slobodan Beljanski, Vida Čok, Kosta Čavoski, Marijana Pajvančić, Lidija Basta, Vladimir Vodalić, Jovan Ćirić, Vesna Rakić – Vodnelic, the one from your party who supported all the time since 5 October and before 5 October, but does not matter, you can see that he disagrees with you, Jovica Trkulja, Zoran Ivošević, former Supreme Court Judge, Radmila Vasić, Dragica Vujadinović, Jasmina Hasanbegović, Mirjana Stefanovski, Ljiljana Radulović, Ivan Pejić, Miodrag Jovanovic, Neboša Sarkić, Vladjan Petrov, Tzan Marinković, Marija Karanovic, Marija Karinović, Djorđe Sibinović, Svetljana Milč, Aleksandra Simić, Aleksandra Simić. Madam Vice President, I am forced to say that with this appeal, besides others, Prof. Dr. Veroljub Rajovic, who has been a specialist and expert in litigation law for 45 years, a prominent lawyer with 35 years of age and still in court, has unlimited practice, therefore, a man with great professional practice and knowledge in the field of procedural litigation legislation. In addition, all MPs of the SRS agree with this because they believe that the public who points out has a reason. Now I can't understand, Mr. Cosic, these are all eminent titles and prominent experts who point out that reform of legislation, i.e. the judiciary, is a major disaster and a blow to the Constitution and state order. These are the problems that are evident, which means that the reform of the judiciary that has been tried, primarily thanks to some European institutions and the local public, has been stopped by the process to carry out an audit and determine what has been done in the course of the election and re-election of judges and prosecutors without the right within the meaning of Article 36(2). The RS constitution that everyone has the right to appeal against any decision of the state authority or to impose another remedy if his rights and interests are offended. In a specific case, both judges and prosecutors were punished by re-election decisions, and I was violated by constitutional law. That's why Mrs. Comic I'm calling, I hope you understand me, to constitutional law. I don't see, and I'm not sure, I can't, I don't think I'm smart enough to sit in a minister's chair and be smarter than these distinguished experts and these distinguished and respected professors, etc. So, when this capacity is indicated, and this Parliament, too, it would be good for him to consider and respect the apparitions and to consider the amendments addressed to the Law on Prosecution. On the other hand, Madam Vice President, there's one thing that's misleading the public. Please, Mr. Cosic, he is a man of rich experience, but in any case he was not the president of this task force who worked on a draft draft of the Law on Prosecution. I will remind you, Madam Minister spoke yesterday about how we have mandatory recommendations from the EU, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. Please, I ask you as a People's Messenger to deliver these recommendations and others to deliver the remarks they have sent you, remarks you have not responded to, and you have not respected, and that means, please, that it is that you speak one thing, and in fact we have evidence of another. What's this about? May I have your attention, please? It is said that from July 6th to 11th 2004, with the financial support of the German Federation for International Legal Co-operation, IRZ organized a multi-day roundtable in the town of Bavaria, which was attended by representatives of the working group, the judges' society and the Supreme Court of Serbia, the working group of the justice ministry for the amendment of the Law on Prosecution, and representatives of the German judicial institutions. What is undeniable, this has been published, no one has disputed this, which is, he says, an accelerated procedure in Serbia. What do you say to that counseling? If you're going too radically, it remains to hope that your procedure doesn't get any worse. Mrs Malovic, the consultation indicated that judges in Serbia are no worse than in other countries. You have other problems – poor material position, poor technique and equipment. Says this expert, consultant – I was a consultant in both China and Mongolia and I was saying the same thing everywhere, the wrong approach to reform is if it is based on the fact that judges are bad, on the contrary, there should be a system that exists and, if worse, first of all improves. It's a bad approach to buy what's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59695	People's MP, don't talk about the agenda for nine minutes. I listen very carefully to you, knowing which documents and whose names you call upon. Now I'm asking you to link it all to the agenda theme. It is not enough to say one sentence over nine minutes, that it is a proposal for a law on litigation to be without breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, on the subject of the agenda, with mutual respect for Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59696	I agree with you, but I've had to inform you that it doesn't stand...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59697	When I remind you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, it is your duty to start respecting the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you on the subject of the agenda, the draft law on litigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59698	This is a proposal for a law on litigation, that I can only make remarks if I call for values, suggestions and remarks from the EU and the European Commission and the OSCE. Why don't you let me talk about the Law of Prosecution?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59699	People's MP, I now warn you of giving you a warning measure. You are obliged to respect article 107 and to speak on the subject of the agenda, and when the chairman reminds you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you begin to apply them as you and I know that it is clearly written.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59700	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'll speak now, I've just finished in that section. Thank you for letting me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the current Law on Prosecution, and we, Mrs. Comic, are relying on a comparative right and a pronoun...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59701	National MP, you have two warnings. I ask you to take the Rules of Procedure very seriously and that by pleading for the rule of law you do not consider it your right to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure until indefinitely. Do not show me an hour, for every MP who is boldly prepared to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be spared during the time I remind him of the provisions he is required to observe. The topic of the agenda is the draft law on litigation. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do after this is just give me a warning measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59702	Please, will you let me talk about the litigation? Be kind, understand me. As a People's MP, I should be respected on your part...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59703	People's MPs, do you insist on giving a warning measure? If this is a strategy for your performance as a representative of the parliamentary group, if you insist, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59704	Can I go back to the Law of Prosecution?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59705	You can come back, that and please a minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59706	This time, will you count me in? How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59707	The moment in which I am obliged to give you a warning is the measure in which you feel you have the right to disdain all the MPs participating in the debate, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and not to listen to the contents of what the chairman is talking to you. What you're doing right now, and you and I know it's a third sentence, without saying it first and second. I ask you most nicely, on the subject of the agenda, without the ugly violations of the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the course of the National Assembly session. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: Come now, Pera.) ) National MP Momir Markovic has been barring order at the National Assembly session. A strategy of MPs or parliamentary groups who think they can expose the mockery of the procedure, so that they can make a mockery of all the rules that apply to all are unsuccessful and must be punished. If you insist on being punished, I am at your disposal, but mocking the procedure, the topic of the agenda, no one will, because we are all bound by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly not to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59708	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the current Law on Prosecution is a law whose provisions were adopted by the Austrian Civil and Judicial Procedure Act, which was passed in 1895, and whose main provisions were adopted in 1929 during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, when we passed the Civil and Judicial Procedure Act, and in post-war Yugoslavia, a new Law on the Procedural Procedures of which were based on the 1929 Law and, consequently, on the provisions of the Law which is now in force in Austria and Germany, which is being tried in these countries, but in these countries, the length of the case before the first-degree court was about six months, and until now, it has been on average for six years. The promoter is trying to convince us that by passing the proposed law on litigation procedure, the trial will end within a reasonable time and speed up the procedure, which is not true. On the contrary, this draft law creates opportunities for dissipating proceedings in an indefinite manner and for directing the procedure to which it corresponds at a given time, as well as taking on legislative powers, by adopting legal positions by the Supreme Cassation Court of Serbia, which replaces the law, which violates the legal order, all for the achievement of certain interests, which is not even recorded in the EU countries. What are the provisions contrary to the Constitution? Many of the provisions of this bill are contrary to the Constitution, which absolutely the SRS MPs will show you in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking small-value disputes. It is said that we have a warrant and that it is said that we need to comply with the rules with EU countries. It is, but you see, that on 28 June 2011, a consultation was held on which EU representative, namely the German government, Mrs. Dr. Christe Jessel Hols, pointed to numerous objections. I'm asking if these remarks have been respected or not? From this complaint, i.e. the proposal and the remarks, I see when it comes to the revision, when it comes to the exclusion of the court, the judges, when it comes to small-value disputes, you can see that the small values have been raised in Serbia to 30 and the revision to 100,000 and in Germany the revision of 50,000, and they do not even foresee in certain cases the revision. So there's a lot of these problems that we're going to talk about in detail. What, Mrs. Malovic, you missed, you only have in the exemption provisions. You say in the proposal – if an exemption is asked once. It's the ultimate thing and it can never be set up again. What's gonna happen? I request one exception from a particular judge, however, it turns out later that the judge committed a criminal offence by not being allowed to exempt that judge, but new evidence has been discovered, following the decision on disciplinary sanctions. Then what? If we find that the judge wasn't safe, because he didn't accept the proposal to make an insight, or to conduct a hearing of a certain witness, and it is found that this witness and insight are on site, it confirms that the murder was committed by Shay and not Pai. What then shall we do, because between Paia and Shaya and the victim was a wall of three metres, and no one could see him. Then what do you do in these cases? So, Mrs. Malovic, there are a lot of problems. Improve this text because we have shown you. I am telling you, I have consulted with prominent experts and experts, including Veroljub Brajovic, the famous professor of Law Faculty, Mr Ćosic also studied there. I believe you have knowledge of that man's capacity. Secondly, you have Besarić Jova, who is an expert on this right, and all the remarks that are referred to should be considered, perhaps there will be a better text. What I would like to say in the end is that Serbia does not have a civil code next to the UK, and that should be done and the Civil Code should be disclosed and adopted in accordance with the Constitution as soon as possible. The problem is that the question is asked – what would be the content of the civil code? In the world most often spells, pay attention if you want to accept this initiative, the general part of status law, the real right, the bond law, inheritance law and family law. As long as there's a long way to pass a new civil code, do whatever it takes to get it through as soon as possible. So, Madam Vice President, how much time do I have? (President: You have four minutes left. ) Thank you very much. You see how communication can be coordinated humanly, with your due respect. Ladies and gentlemen, I think some things, Madam Minister, cannot be accepted and must be changed. It is not possible for you in this law to accept and establish a verdict as a means of proof in a case of evidence, in a litigation procedure, and on it, namely a statement by someone who has made a statement, and that statement should serve a greater or an individual to make and base a decision on it. That's one thing. The second thing, the principle of orality, the principle of directness and the principle of the public, Mrs Malovic, you said you were harmonising them with European standards, but I would ask you to confirm it in your final word, to bring them in line with the Constitution and to what provisions you are harmonising it with. Second. It is not allowed for the defendants or the parties or the interference to not have the right to face each other. Among other institutes, have an institute of confrontation. Please provide that confrontation in all cases, not exceptional. That exception, that's why I'm pointing out, is going to make some judges a rule. In some of the provisions you said, "The court can." No, the court's due. What if the court can and won't? So what do we do? That's where you sanction the judge that he's obliged to determine the truth, to extract evidence based on the party's proposal. Secondly, that he is obliged to do so himself when he sees that a request cannot be made by the party, in which case that request is being checked on its own by official duty. So what do we do? Mrs. Malovic, what did the group do with the art? Please, how come the judge's right to call an expert to change his findings? That's it, you saw in criminal proceedings. Even a penalty of 150,000 dinars. It can't. What's good, now I'm going to mention it, not to forget. It's a good thing you put a technical advisor in. It's a counselor, or representative, or accused or damaged. It's a good thing and it's a good institution, because when it comes to art, the court determines an expert, the ignorant party goes to court, and there's no one to stand up to an expert, so you have the right and you leave the party to hire a representative from that profession, not just one but more of them, and that the party in the process has the right, as in France and Germany, before the debate is opened to propose expert advisors, or technical advisers, as they call them in parallel law. It's a good provision for you to oppose any will or corruption of an expert with another party. If I make a deal, I'm proposing an expert on Simu. She's doing me a good find, and that's the judge's finding coming in. Based on that finding, the verdict is based. There's corruption absolutely open to the sky. Therefore, Mrs Malovic, for a short period of time, we have invested 100 and some amendments from the SRS. We suggest that you and the Working Group consider these amendments. You don't have to adopt any political reasons, if you don't have a good relationship with us, not to humiliate us. I respect you and every messenger, and every lawyer who points to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59709	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, the very important law on litigation is today in the assembly procedure and of course, we have been closely monitoring the course of public debate and the participation of qualified experts in the public debate itself and public participation. Of course, never in the text of a certain law will the professional public fully agree. That never seems to have happened in our legal practice. Someone will always take a stand and think that a solution is better than a proposed solution. It's the profession, and it's the public who said that the existing court proceedings are long, slow, inefficient, tromic, not just because of the judges, because we don't need all the responsibility to bring judges. I know dozens of judges who make their cases at home and make decisions in the afternoon, in the evening, sacrificing private and family lives to respect norms and to honor deadlines. In order for judicial reform to deliver its real results, the contribution of the reform to the judiciary should be given by all participants in the judicial system, including suppliers, couriers, dactylographies, technical staff and judges, etc. If we all agree that the current situation is bad, then there is a consensus that it must change. The fear of change is always caused by the National Assembly for two basic reasons. The first is the expressed political position that everything that comes from the ruling coalition, that this is bad and that any new proposal will be a worse solution than the existing one. It's a clear articulized political stance. The second, I think, is the ignorance of matter, ignorance and parallel rights. A large number of proceedings before the Constitutional Court on constitutional complaints, a large number of proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, point out and give guidance to the working group, which it has accepted to a full extent, to draft a modern and effective law on litigation. Of course, all of us will also take care of those ignorant parties, poor citizens, citizens who do not have qualified legal assistance, etc., but indeed the basic definition of the litigation process is that you in civil litigation are fighting for the protection of personal and property interests, civil interests. To the extent that you are interested in protecting your interest, you will be interested in recruiting and qualified proxies and qualified professional assistant, which unfortunately costs. We're living in time, and we're just gonna live in a time where every service costs money. In the more developed parts of our country, what is happening in the poorer parts of our country is not traditional. The parties shall come to the proxies of the services and shall be paid immediately. In other parts they say -- so what, you just gave me legal advice, you spent some of your time, it doesn't cost anything. There is no such relationship with respect for the service provided by the professional person. Celsus, a great Roman civilian, has given one great definition of the civil suit – the lawsuit is nothing more than the right to exercise the right that belongs to you by judicial means. How will we come by a new law on litigation to full material truth, respect for the legality and protection of the civil rights of all our citizens? By making the court objective, which will work more efficiently, which will make the procedure more efficient, the faster the evidence will be carried out, the more efficient delivery will be, and what many deadlines will really be shortened. With important changes and new institutes, we will contribute to the principle of material truth. It's an excellent provision to be referred to as Article 6. The Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, in which, in a civil case, a judicial verdict of a criminal court, unlike previous solutions, is now not binding a court on the basis of the claim. It was primarily an objection to insurance organizations. Since I have been representing the insurance company for 10 years and I have entered 80% of our courts, I can only tell you a few examples from the practice to which it was established. In one criminal procedure, a paranoid schizophrenic, at the same time as an alcoholic and face-deprived business, ran out with open arms and literally chased the bus and suffered serious physical injuries. The bus driver literally ran away from that face. The bus driver was not interested in the outcome of the criminal proceedings. Maybe they were doing other interests, he was convicted. Apparently, the person responsible for the car accident has achieved a huge financial benefit due to his guilt, precisely because of the fact that the court was bound by the sentence of a criminal verdict that the basis itself is indisputable, and then only in the process is determined height. In another case, police at the scene were changing traffic accidents. The accident happened in Montenegro. Even the face that caused the crash, his van blew out of the battle ammunition and he had a great relationship, it was a war years, with the local police. The person who allegedly blamed the car accident, which was on his August tape, received detention, an official defender, admitted guilty, freed the right to appeal, as a simple man calculated that 10 or 20 departures to Montenegro would cost him more than a fine in criminal proceedings. However, this also provided a strong basis for compensation for damages, several people who otherwise would not have achieved compensation for damages, which is already from another insurance company. Yesterday, at the Code of Criminal Procedure, I commended what I was really personal about, with the great support of fellow counterparts Peter Jojic, colleagues Jovan Palalić and many colleagues who understand the profession, who understand the problem, who have met countless times in practice with this kind of problem, I commended the introduction of the institute of the chosen artist, i.e. we can call him a technical assistant, an expert assistant. In any case, a person who will qualify to give an opinion and opinion according to the rules of the profession. Of course, he will certainly protect the interests of the party who chose him, but the court is there that between two conflicting interests, i.e. two conflicting statements of an artificial price whose findings and opinion are according to the rules of the profession or one part of the findings of one expert is given according to the rules of the profession and the other in another part. It's the role of a court that's good because, I say, yesterday I said it, the court has only used phrases so far. In several thousand disputes, which I personally had before the courts, only one judge appreciated the findings and the expert's opinion, which is why and in what part of the acceptance, which is why the verdict is confirmed in a higher court. Everyone else used the usual phrase. What is good for the concentration of evidence is that at the preparatory hearing or the first hearing for the main debate, which has not been held by the preparatory hearing, simply parties in agreement with the judge are clear which facts among them are disputed and which are undeniable. The indisputable facts and uncontestable evidence, of course, will not be carried out by the court, will carry out those disputed facts and disputed evidence, and then the court will be able in some way to predict the time course of proceedings and the order in which the evidence is carried out, regardless of what it is impossible to accurately determine, because you can never know in which direction the procedure will be run and what possible complications or new facts will occur during the procedure. This will, in any case, contribute to the trial within a reasonable period of time and a reduction in the duration of the trial, because our lawsuits are among the longest in Europe. The civil suit seems to me, according to data published by the Justice Ministry, on average, civil litigation lasted over five years, which is too long. Imagine someone whose property rights are at stake, who can't achieve five years, and then we're just going into the execution process. Of course, it is all about the exemption, for the delegation of competence, for establishing special local jurisdiction, for the safe conduct of parties in the process, that these are very good solutions. We could talk about these barrage tricks and party tricks for the abuse of procedural powers to talk for 24 hours. Indeed, the previous Law on Procedural Procedure, both in terms of delivery, and in terms of exemptions, and in respect of all other procedural options, has provided the widest possible spectrum for the abuse of procedural powers and for the delaying of proceedings and this law and the possibilities for largely narrows down. What's controversial is it seems to me that most of the parliamentary groups, it's that the power of the parties before the court can only be a lawyer. I would say something that is my opinion, of course, that lawyers with a legal and legal exam are very professional, qualified and most qualified to represent the interests of the parties before the court. However, I think that, for example, employees of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, for pension-inhabited insurance, means persons representing these funds or persons employed in insurance companies, and having passed a judicial exam, can only take part in cases with a certain type of dispute, and how qualified and closely specialised in protecting the rights of the institution, which they represent. Believe me, in court cases against the Department of Health Insurance, Pension and Disabilities Insurance, you will rarely find a lawyer who is so professional and qualified to stand up to an agent who works for 20 or 30 or 10 years in that fund or office or insurance company. The thing with lawyers, with all due respect for their progress, is like a specialization of general jurisdiction. But, narrowly specialized pronouns, it seems to me that in practice it will not bring about and contribute to the determination of material truth or the effective conduct of the procedure, but it seems to me that maybe only a lawyer's lobby, on this basis, will profit, because today all lawyers are complaining that they have little work to do and it's very difficult to charge for what is done, but it's the price of the time we all pay in which we live. New times have also imposed many forms of proof, new forms and ways of hearing witnesses and receiving written statements. These solutions are fully adapted and suitable for new times. What is also good, is the possibility that the parties will conclude both judicial alignment and after a first-degree ruling, which has not been the case so far and, of course, with the introduction of mediation, the judges will, at any time, if they consider that there is an opportunity for a settlement of the dispute to be agreed, refer the parties to the agreement, because in the developed legal systems, over 90% of all civil litigation is resolved by mediation, i.e. the agreement of parties and a peaceful solution to the dispute. All and by exceptional legal remedies, all the solutions proposed by the law are good, it will also contribute to effective implementation of the procedure, but particularly organised litigation procedures are detailed and some newspapers have been introduced, as life has been imposed after our adoption of the Consumer Protection Act, so that the group is also covered by the law on litigation and its special procedures, as well as in the protection of collective rights and the interests of citizens. Because of all these facts, because of the facts that we will present in the debate on details, the MPs of the Serbian Movement will, of course, vote in favour of this good law in the day of voting and precisely these key facts that I have led us to hope that indeed the judiciary from one difficult state, after all the good normative solutions that the Ministry of Justice has made, or that they have proposed to the National Assembly that we are going to adopt, that we are really going to go through the improvement of the situation in our judicial system. That's why we, I say, will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59711	Sixteen minutes used from the time of the representatives of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, the application for a word, in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Liberal Democratic Party, the New Serbia MP group, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, the Progressive Group of Serbia, the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, so I give the word to the first reported on the list, and by order of the MPs and the application for a word in principle for a draft law on litigation. The first registered MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59712	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, at the opening exposé of our authorised representatives for the debate on the draft law on litigation proceedings, presented the views of our parliamentary club. I have carefully followed the debate, and I will strive not to repeat what has already been said, but to highlight what is good in the law and to apostrophe what I think might be corrected and to ask certain questions. In the end, we LDP have never adhered to the rule that the opposition is there to criticise, and the government to praise, especially in the fundamental laws on which the legal system of a state rests, because at such times it is an unacceptable luxury. So we're here to make bad bill proposals better, and to make good bill proposals even better. We've already heard the good news of this bill. I'm not going to repeat, we're going as an illustration of that, I don't think there's been too much talk about it in the debate, I'm going to look back at the expansion of the possibility of a settlement being concluded. This possibility exists, according to current solutions, until the judicial end of the procedure, unlike a valid solution according to which the settlement can only be concluded until the first-degree procedure is completed. The question of the fate of the first-degree decision and the appeal in the event of the conclusion of the settlement in the course of the second-degree procedure, therefore, the advertising of the first-degree decision without fact and the fact that the complaint has been withdrawn, has been perfectly resolved. Thus, a major problem was removed, which was first imposed on the courts by the application of the Mediation Act in the best possible way, since neither the abolition nor the putting out of force of the first-degree decision, nor the strictly fiction of the withdrawal of the appeal, could serve no purpose in this case. Don't let me count on it. In addition to a large number of excellent solutions that truly achieve the stated objectives or remove gaps that have caused major problems in practice, in my opinion, the bill contains certain inconsistencies which can be subject to correction and which, above all, relate to the domestic disposition of parties, as well as the principles of material truth, i.e. the debate and investigative principle. Namely, the Proposer insists that the scope of the investigation be limited, which, under the applicable Law on the litigation procedure, is specified by the provision that the Court determines all the facts of which the decision on the basis of the claim is based and proposes a solution which the court is obliged to take into account only the facts proposed by the parties and in respect of which the evidence was carried out. Such a solution shall be justified by stating that the parties are fighting for their interests and that the court is an arbitration officer who appreciates it on the basis of certain rules and specific rules on the burden of proof. However, it can be concluded that, in this way, at the expense of the principle of material truth, there is some reinstitutionalization of the once dominant principle of formal truth, and the social importance of the court's role is disregarded at all, which is by no means an arbiter, because the arbiter is a private judge, but a bearer of an important, perhaps most important state and social function. On the other hand, party autonomy as an acceptable measure of their responsibilities for their own success in the case is drastically diminished when it comes to regulating representation by the proxies. The ability of parties to opt for the identity of pronouns is now reduced solely to lawyers, and the possibility of a choice, whether at all, will be represented, is limited to a first-degree procedure. I believe that such solutions are justified by the necessary, so the arguments given, the consistent implementation of a constitutional provision according to which legal aid can only be provided by lawyers, as well as the view that the solution provided by the applicable law is, above all, unacceptable from the point of view of the lawyer as a profession that implies multiple legal qualifications, a judicial examination, an appropriate practice, as well as specific criteria for the reception of the lawyer. According to the existing solutions as the party's attorney in the litigation procedure, any business capable person may appear, so I am now apostrophe to the existing solutions, while in the case of representation by lawyers, the courts apply a lower degree of tolerance of the mistakes made in representation. A lawyer's profession is protected by the fact that anyone who is not a lawyer, who appears in several litigation cases as a party's attorney and charges his services, is subject to responsibility for high writing. When it comes to mandatory legal representation, it is only applied in an emergency legal procedure, so to review, and not in the appeal procedure as proposed. Could you think the next way, I'm asking a question? A solution which would leave the party free to choose any person, whether or not he is a lawyer, with increasing the party's level of responsibility for his own choice. Which would be achieved by equating the treatment of errors, as well as by retaining the provisions on high office. That would, in my opinion, achieve a sufficient degree of protection of the law profession. The constitution would certainly not be damaged, since the term is legal aid in Article 67. It's a multi-species constitution. The founder obviously had in mind the concepts of legal aid, which included the activity of other entities, not just lawyers. At the very least, and the reasoning of the draft law, the legislator calls for the Constitution. So, the Constitution, in my opinion, and I would say in the generally accepted opinion, would not be violated. A solution that makes legal representation mandatory in legal procedures and regular, not only is it like the previous obvious reflection and aspirations and the realised influence of the lawyer, but it is a sign of the question and the possibility of practical application itself. For example, it raises the question -- how does an opponent of the complainant as a party who has succeeded in a first-degree procedure force him to hire a lawyer, or how to sanction him if he does not want to or does not consider it meaningful? Can such a party be denied the right to personally and directly take litigation? Should the appeal be considered at all or adopted immediately? From the point of view of the logic of the case, given the fact that it represents a functional unity of procedural actions, which extends to each other until a judicial end, I am of the opinion that it is not justified for a party who, believing in their own capacities, has been charged with an independent struggle for their rights and interests to deny the possibility that this struggle at their own risk without anyone's help leads to the very end. In the end, by asking these questions and making adequate suggestions, I would refer to forms of association without the characteristics of the person in the right. The proposal continues as well as in the existing Law on a litigation procedure there is a provision that norms the jurisdiction of a judicial court to recognise the party's property and forms of association without the property of a person right, therefore without legal capacity, provided that they have the property on which the execution can be carried out. In my opinion, it remains unclear who can dispose of the property without having any legal capacity at all, i.e. That he can't be the bearer of any right at all. I would like to get an explanation of how the legislator saw this problem and how he designed the application of adequate provisions. This would essentially be the core of the grudges and the essence of the questions I would ask, and otherwise we support the general position that it is a fundamental law whose conquest with adequate repairs should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59713	Nine minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, followed by the National MP Marija Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Minister, we have before us today a debate on the draft law on litigation, and right at the beginning I will point out one fact I mentioned yesterday, that essentially this law is good, that it is better than the previous law. Of course, there are certain shortcomings in each law, and I am sure that the New Serbia parliamentary group with the amendments it has submitted will try to try to improve some of the inexplicable, both linguistic and essential proposed amendments. In this debate in principle, since I have positively expressed myself on this bill, I will try to stick to these amendments in a more detailed and practical way so that the proposer has plenty of time to look at these amendments and possibly accept what would completely improve the legislative proposal. In Article 11. The New Serbia legislator's proposal practically wants to draw attention to the proposed amendment and to the legislator of the law that, the mediation envisaged, is practically predicated to the mandatory proposal of mediation for reasons that could completely be completed before court proceedings. So, one practically imperative position because why the parties should be exposed to unnecessary costs, and we know that they are very large and that we have repeatedly pointed out here that court fees are both on the verdict and on the lawsuit and on the appeal very large and that the parties are most often unable to pay them. Of course, we regret that probably this Assembly assembly will not have this New Serbia proposal, which has repeatedly taken place from here, that, in addition to the initial act of the suit, this tax will be paid without those involved in the verdict and appeal, in the end, after the execution, practically upon the realization of the claim, or after the right has been reached. However, it will likely try to be done in another assembly because regardless of what is here, what is left of the brain, and this litigation will not be carried out properly unless the executive procedure is carried out, regardless of the possibilities of both the public perpetrators, i.e. the court, and the private perpetrators. In the daytime, we draw attention to Article 140. Article 3 for delivery, one rather sensitive situation. The legislator proposes one solution and it is generally good because there are great opportunities for abuse, i.e. avoidance of parties who are sued to appear at the hearing and to go into general court proceedings, but we think that this proposed solution is better and that no matter what, it still gives this opposing party one opportunity to be informed of the dispute. Namely, as we have suggested, Article 140 of Article 3 changes in such a way that it remains a notification that the parties may take a written note in court within 30 days of the date on which the delivery was attempted. In that case, copies shall be pointed out on the court’s notice board, for the past 30 days being deemed to have been properly executed. The bill, which means our argument regarding this amendment, is that the bill provides for the impaling of a written door, apartment or legal person's premises, does not mean that it will not be destroyed in writing by third parties, while the party has no possibility of being informed in court. For this reason, we believe that the solution offered is more celery. One member of the law that's really controversial, and that's Article 222 point 4, where we're asking for point 5 to be deleted. Why? The decision is proposed in the integral text of the draft law is a provision prescribed in Article 214 of point 5 of the current CAP. The legislator did not pay attention to the fact that in May of this year a new company law, which is a member of 598, has literally been adopted – since the date of application of this law of Article 214(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. While it is in no way right for these two laws to continue to be in collegiate, on one important issue, we have proposed this amendment to delete the disputed provision. In Article 183, we believe that the legislator's general tendency with this draft law in the litigation process is to speed up the litigation process and we believe that in such a situation to be carried out by the Cassation Court, the deadline of 60 days is too large and should be reduced to 30 days, because if all of this is done, and the tendencies are to speed up the litigation process, then there is no reason for those most competent in this country to have an extension of the deadline that is unnecessary, so that deadline should be reduced to 30 days. Of course, we will also refer to the possibility that the parties will submit an audit. Madam Minister, why do I think the limit of 100,000 euros is too high and should be reduced to 50,000 euros, but with one remark, it should not stand for dinar countervalue, but should stand for five million dinars, for a simple reason, which is a commitment to the euro course a very unpopular situation, a certain inequality among the parties is being created, as in the case of a major leap of the euro, it may happen to move that revision. We know that in this country nothing follows the shift in the course of the euro, wages, pensions and other personal incomes are generally frozen, so that a certain limit for the revision, or from the current 10 million, should be reduced to five million dinars, so that the parties have opportunities, because it is a large amount of expenditure for the citizens of Serbia and we believe that this amount is realistic. One amendment relating to Article 382 can be said that paragraph 2 is amended by a second-degree court may be used by a first-degree court to obtain a report on reconnaissance operations. The solution proposed by this amendment is more comprehensive, it is unacceptable that the second-degree court, which decides by appeal, appreciates the decision of the first-degree court, creates such a kind of communication which requires further explanations and other similar things from the first-degree court. It may refer to reconnaissance operations, but to those procedural actions under which the appeal was made, a decision was made, why would he obtain such a type of evidence in another step, possibly some of the reconnaissance actions that are technical, but they are not essential. Of course, the second-degree court will appreciate what has been done by the first-degree court, will make a decision, confirm or abolish and return to judgment. I think it's procedurally fine. Finally, I would refer to Article 421(2), where we are asking that paragraph 2 be changed and that it be read – the requirements of Article 1 of this article can be filed against a judicial verdict where the law is violated, both in public and in private interest. The reason is that we do not feel that private interest should be discriminated against in all developed countries, legislation is a maximum protection of the Institute of Private Property, so that it is necessary to allow the law to apply to the Supreme Cassation Court for reviewing the judicial judgment which has violated the law at the expense of private, not only public interest. I think we've long since come out of a period where only a state and public interest should be protected, private property is a sacred letter, when a personal relationship is right. I think this amendment is good and should be accepted. Of course, when the time comes for amendments, we'll talk more closely. The intention and desire is that one law that is right, that we leave enough time to suggest that we turn to some things that are illogical. I think the minister will have an understanding and a large number of amendments will be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59715	The word has a folk MP, Marija Bulgarcic, followed by a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59716	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my distinguished colleagues spoke of inconsistencies, legal gaps and the advantages of this law. I'll talk about the newspaper that passed this law. I sincerely hope that this paper will improve the Law on Prosecution and that no new CAP will be adopted every two years. It is a significant newspaper in this law that concerns the way the file is delivered. In addition to the fact that the current provisions of the CAP have become obsolete and have been in force for over 50 years, the major problem for the conduct of the litigation process is also the abuse of procedural law and parties. This proposed amendment of the law represents a significant shift in this area, but in our opinion, it is not a final solution to the problem of this delivery principle. The law stipulates that letters to be delivered in person are delivered to the address in the residence records, and in the case of legal persons, from the register of legal entities. If the person who has to be served in writing is not found at that address, he shall be left with a notice that he may raise in writing in court within 30 days, after which he is deemed to have been served in writing. I sincerely hope this will significantly reduce the length of the case, because we know that in practice our litigation procedures take a very long time and that the litigation in most cases is delayed. A large number of cases also end up in an international court in Strasbourg. As for the deadlines and hearings of the proposed solution where the court and parties are obliged to adhere to a fixed timeframe, and when exactly the hearings can be postponed, we believe that this is a good solution in this law and that it is also a positive shift when it comes to the CAP. The law pays special attention to the principles of the trial within a reasonable period, as the European Court of Human Rights rulings found that the largest number of cases and judgments were made, precisely at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I would add is that there is no need to flee and there is no need to remain the unmarked principle of Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights and the principle of justice. Also, the introduction into the Law on the Procedural Procedure, in particular two procedures, the procedure in consumer disputes and the procedure for the protection of collective rights and the interests of citizens is something that is very positive and acceptable for the LDP parliamentary group because these two procedures exist in all EU Member States. What is also good in this law, and my colleagues and colleagues have not mentioned, is finally precise to the definition of a verdict and it is from its subject matter of saying and legal nature. Now there can only be a positive statement among the verdicts which has not been the case so far and which we also think is well foreseen in the draft of this law. I would ask you a question, Madam Minister, as long as there was a public debate on this law, there was a debate between Professor Zivkovic and Professor Antić, and the topic was whether certain norms should go to the Law on International Private Law or whether they should remain regulated by the Law on Prosecution Law. Professor Antic's opinion, which according to many legal estimates, was not so well-founded because more supporters at the public hearing had Professor Zivkovic, so I'm interested in what you think about it? Finally, since my time is running out, I would like to say that for the draft law on litigation, you will have the support of the LDP parliamentary group. I sincerely hope that this law will be applied more in practice and that Article 32 will be respected more. The constitution and the right to a fair trial will be given to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59717	The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, followed by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we completed a debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is so bad a law that it had to be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and that's what we pointed to yesterday in the debate. Here, today we have started to discuss another procedural law that is not as bad as the previous one, but far from all the solutions that are provided for it are adequately envisaged and regulated. This law is passed, among other things, and in order to achieve more effective and economical treatment before courts and then the question arises, if it was indeed the aim of this bill, why did the legislator not start by defining deadlines for the main procedural actions in the process? We have seen this error, and we have foreseen a series of amendments that are currently going in this direction, so time limits and deadlines to prevent inefficient court proceedings. However, what we pointed out yesterday is fully justified in seeking a more effective court procedure, whether it is a litigation or a criminal procedure, but it must not go to the heart of the determination of the truth. When I say this, I am primarily referring to certain provisions relating to the regulation of small-value disputes, because it is rather short disputes that do not even hold a preparatory hearing, i.e. where the complaint is not sent to the defendant for answer and what is most important about disputes whose value does not exceed the amount of three thousand euros in dinar equivalent. What we think is extremely controversial in regulating these disputes is that the parties do not have the opportunity to appeal to the verdict in which they will present these facts and propose the implementation of new evidence. Our legitimate concern goes in this respect that, starting with real life, these processes, i.e. these procedures, will be the most represented proceedings in litigation and hence our concern that, retailes, for the largest number of litigation proceedings to be used, will be tried in a shortened procedure. This is something that is not good because, as my colleague Jovan Palalic said, about 80% of the total litigation will be reduced to small-value disputes. Simply, here it was meant to start with real life and to see that one-fifth of Serbian citizens live well today, and four-fifths of Serbian citizens today barely survive and that these disputes will be the most widely represented disputes, and therefore it is not justified that they are subject to reduced procedures, that they are subject to a reduced procedure. On the other hand, if we start with this real life, it is also unacceptable that the revision is only allowed for disputes worth over 100,000 euros. One hundred thousand euros today for many citizens in Serbia is a mental noun and it is quite clear that by defining the possibility of investment in audits, you are in fact limiting its ability and bringing it down to the exception. So, this kind of investment in this extraordinary legal drug is completely, except in some exceptional cases, excluded from use and it's really going to be a real exception. This significantly restricts the rights of parties in the process, and I think you're aware of that, too. However, even if it comes from those good solutions provided for in this bill, I believe that the biggest problem, which is the problem of inefficient functioning of the courts, will not be solved. It will not be resolved because it is even worsened by the creation of a new network of courts that has made it significantly difficult and disabling citizens in equal access to justice. Not only that, it questioned the functioning of certain courts. For example, Serbia's most burdened courts today have eight times as much inflow as those courts that are least burdened and today is certainly one of the most burdened courts in Serbia The first basic court in Belgrade with more than 200 judges and some 1,000 employees. This court today does very badly work not because of the inability of the court staff, not because they are not dressed, on the contrary, in most cases it is extremely high-quality judges who are doing their job professionally, but the problem is that they do not have the opportunity to overcome such an inflow of cases. When we pointed out two years ago that such a network of courts would cause a huge problem in the functioning of the courts. That's when you ignored our arguments. It was necessary that in 2010, at least on the basis of the report that we had the opportunity to make an insight, to find out that some less than a million cases have been resolved in all basic courts in Belgrade, which directly speaks to how ineffective this reform has been and then information has emerged that the whole network of courts will be replaced, such a decision will be welcomed, and that a number of basic courts will now be able to find out where Mrs. Nata Mesarovic said that the network of courts today is inadequate and that it will be amended and that several new basic courts are being set up in the territory of the City of Belgrade. That's something we say hello to. It's something we've been telling you about, and then when this law was on the agenda, but you just didn't have the sense that he was going to bring you into trouble himself, but regardless, we're not vain, as you know, and I think after two years you've actually thrown away, it's a good thing that those who led this reform realized that they were in big trouble by establishing such networks of courts and that they came to where we were two years ago, when we pointed out that there would be a big problem in the functioning of the judiciary. After violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, there are now some 5,000 lawsuits against Serbia before the Strasbourg court today. There are 51 rulings brought by the Strasbourg court, and only three verdicts go in favour of the Republic of Serbia and that is a major problem. You know it has to be solved, but it can't be solved only by passing one procedural law, it has to be solved only if you fully see the situation and all the problems that burden this request and the problem that needs to be solved. This can be resolved not only by making good procedural solutions, but by completely changing the established judicial network and by returning to the job of a large number of judges who are later found not to be adequately appreciated criteria in them, when deciding on a re-election. I think that such solutions should go primarily in the area of KIM, because just in the area of southern Serbia, in the area of KIM, a large number of judicial officials have lost their jobs because of the so-called. reforms and I think that, as the Ministry of Justice, as a representative of the Justice Ministry, you should show a clear desire that says that it is necessary for you to contribute to your work to the parallel institutions in Kosovo, as they are called, that is, the Serbian institutions in Kosovo, to survive, and as you know, one of the basic institutions in Kosovo is also the court in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica. I know that you have approved the system of return of 76 judicial workers to that court, but it is necessary to take advantage of the position you are in and put pressure on the Ministry of Justice, in order to simply bring that decision to life in practice, because it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to also provide financial support for the security of salaries for those workers down there. Simply, if that didn't happen, if your role in this respect remained passive, I think that such behaviour would only encourage the Kosovo government to meet all the goals it intended, and simply conquering, as I say, the court in Kosovo Mitrovica, is just one in a series of goals they want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59719	Eleven minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, and after him is the MP of the people Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59720	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Prosecution is certainly one of the most important laws, because the speed and length of the court procedure depends primarily on the procedural laws and the Serbian judiciary has huge problems in this part as well. The fact that 70% of the cases in front of our courts belong to the matter of litigation obliges us to, unlike the culprits who have had no luck in this extraction, because we think that the law on the CAP does not give good solutions and will not help them in their work, at least to give the litigators one quality law and tool in their hands so that they can also contribute not to being more guilty of all this happening in our judiciary, but to those people who have the skills and skills, expertise and the desire to prove themselves in their work really and make use of this law in the best possible direction. Certainly, the goal to achieve a new law on litigation is both speed and efficiency of the process, but these are not the most important elements of this process, so we will try to help through the amendments that we have proposed not to repeat some mistakes, as has happened with judicial reform so far and I hope that the DSS amendment will be accepted. The draft law on litigation really significantly shortens the length of the proceedings, primarily through the concentration of the court proceedings and the essential provisions to determine the timeframe for how long the judge's proceedings will take at the preparatory hearing. I liked a provision that would first of all oblige the judges to be much more active and to be prepared for each trial, because they have an obligation to deliver the verdict immediately, you know how it has been done so far. The draft law repeals the requirement for the protection of legality, in full. As far as the revision is concerned, there are already few amended norms and they will be some exceptional and restrictive legal remedy. counterpart Palalic and Mrs Radovic made it clear what problems could cause audits, its height. Note that in Serbia there are some small environments. I don't know who in Knic can conduct a review either in Cacačka or in Luciani or in another city, in a situation where the economy is destroyed, where citizens barely make ends meet, to keep the value of the dispute over 100,000 euros. With regard to the proposed solutions, we at the DSS have certain dilemmas. I'm only afraid that in the sea of amendments submitted to the CAP or the CAP, I would ask you to pay attention to these amendments, because it is indeed for all of us to fix this bill, that something should not slip through us because of the extensive material that has arrived. We feel it is necessary to set a deadline until which a first-degree litigation procedure may take place, because in article 10, I really don't know what the definition "in a reasonable time" means? It may stand in this law, but we have suggested that this time limit be limited, that it be a period of nine months from the initiation of the case, if we want a faster and more effective judiciary I think a deadline should be set. In so much of the provision mentioned today that the decision of the criminal court does not produce a legal fact in the litigation procedure, counterpart Palalic literally transferred it from the profession, from the courtroom, to this hall. There's a certain excuse. A fellow Chikiriz has cited drastic examples, but these are, however, I think, some exceptions in this case, because in the case of rivals, it is impossible to conduct criminal proceedings against one of them, to exempt this other from further proceedings. That's where we need to find a solution. I know these are major problems with insurance houses and other potential participants in this dispute, but I don't think this proposed solution is very good quality. When it comes to determining local and real jurisdiction, we propose certain solutions to set an eight-day deadline. There is no need to prolong anything and to allow the judge to move it after a vacation or some of his other duties, but simply oblige him to bring a solution to both the meat and the actual jurisdiction within eight days. One maybe good solution to think about, now I don't want to bid, it's about Article 29, if the request applies to any future givings, you've predicted a five-year period, but I'm afraid that this five-year period may not be too long, and it doesn't have a drastic impact on the level of value of the dispute, because it can still be an alimony dispute or some other kind, but I think it's a five-year deadline. We really didn't want to write here right now – the solution is right for three years. Think about it too, there shouldn't be any big problems about it. It's five years old. In the first degree of dispute, the judge judges an individual, unless the law requires him to judge a greater one. We do have a dilemma here about the rule of a monocrat trial, primarily because of the compliance of this standard with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We all know it says there that the court judges in the council, but what happens to those more complex disputes that allow audits? We have suggested, we believe that in these situations we should judge the court council. In the delegation of power, we also suggest that this should set a precise deadline within which the court will reach a solution, in order to make this procedure more effective and faster. Through a series of members, if I don't explain everyone now, we're going to do this in detail because we've predicted a similar situation, a similar solution. It's related to the exclusion of the exemption. This couldn't have missed us, that the judge couldn't perform his duties if the shareholder and owner were more than 3% of the total capital of the legal person. What we're trying to say is that our courts aren't corrupt, that the judges work honestly and honestly. Why does such a provision stand in the law? Why allow those 3%? That part of Title 2 should be deleted, because what if the value of the capital is a million euros? The judge has a 30,000-euro stake, it's not small money. You don't have to think about whether he'll be biased or not and whether it'll affect it. He just can't judge the case. Of course he won't care and he'll be biased. I think the applicable law is much clearer on this, because something like that has absolutely been ruled out. Then, with a legal representative in the process, you predict that it can only be a person designated by a general act. We think that you should introduce it here and that you may have unwittingly left it out, an individual act, because in a particular legal person, on the basis of an individual act, the director or the change is being made. In this way you are virtually the only persons who are designated by a general act in some way are allowed to represent a legal person. At the hearing, much has been said about this today. Another inaccuracy, what does it mean to prevent a judge? I understand, of course, the judge can be sick, he can have some extraordinary situations when he can't come. If one trial doesn't go to the prosecutor, the other doesn't come to the defendant, the third doesn't come to the judge, then we're slowly going to some madness that could have produced unwanted consequences so far. I'm afraid, unless we limit and define this properly, that this trial will turn into chaos again. We predicted that it would be one third of the time limit, or that framework, so that it would not be extended indefinitely. In the record, the bill provides for new modern means, so there is optical and tone recording and that's good. The question arises – what about that eight-day vacuum, until the tone, or the optical record is transmitted to paper? It is not the same when the party has the opportunity to see the logs directly and when it can suspect what will be transmitted from the tone or optical record to the record. This is the 21st century, and I don't see any reason why the party's hearing should not be served with a tone or video. In delivery, some proposals have also been made to speed up, perhaps, this part of the whole process. Believe me, when we consider a proposal that refers to the possibility that parties directly refer submissions to each other, we at the DSS have concluded that it can lead to serious, but also comical situations, abuse. We think this provision is just opening up a possibility for such abuses. We suggest this isn't in the legal text. We understand the desire to speed up the process for many reasons. It is not clear to me that the law states that, provided the address is correct when delivery is made, there is also a register of economic operators, legal entities, and there is also a record of residence and there is no incorrect address. The court knows exactly what the address is. For one who avoids receiving a written letter because he has moved somewhere else and has not reported it to the competent authority or changed the headquarters of the firm, the state must clearly respond to that person because it has every possibility. In reviewing and copying the file, I think it is necessary to determine the judge's obligation that within 24 hours, an interested person on request may make an insight into the case files. It's been so long, we all know it well, that the judge goes on vacation, that he's sick, and the subject stays in the drawer for a few days, doesn't put him in the office. If the party has an interest in reviewing the case files in which it participates, a record shall be submitted and the judge or authorised person shall allow it to do so as soon as possible. It's a short time, and we'll have a chance to discuss a large number of amendments for the next day. We have a good will and a desire to help. I hope the Department of Justice finds some understanding. The fact that certain things, as you have set them, will not provide a good solution and will not prove to be good in practice. We're used to, every once in a while, laws coming from the Justice Department going through the Assembly again. I'm sure we'll have an understanding for us and we'll be able to get the judges into the hands of a law that can fix the situation in our justice system. What my colleague Radovic said about the network of courts and what you did a year and a half ago will take a lot more time. I'm sure one day we'll be able to change that very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59721	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. After him, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59722	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us one of the most important laws for a country, which indeed, by drawing out such constitutional principles must provide what stands in the preamble, one of the general legal certainty that is also available to citizens. Because as we have heard, and it is quite clear that the discussion of all of us who now speak in the deep will overlap in many ways. The largest number of disputes is small values and a large number of Serbian citizens, I guess by their mental framework, want to simply push their own justice, sue each other and judge each other, and this is indeed going on indefinitely. The general explanation that you want to be more economical, more rational with time and more efficient in the process is a thing that no one here can blame. After all, if there is a general agreement on this and that intention to try and succeed. However, is it all done to do so, and if this law is done in such a way that it is really thoroughly revised compared to the one in 2004? So, it's a brand-new law and reform law, by a little bit of an innuendo, because we've been witnessing in the last 10 years that everything that's been reforming has turned out to be its complete antidote. Just for a little while, to emphasize what happened to our education and how much it costs to be a highly educated man today, how many obstacles you have on that road to get to the end of the study, how much it costs you. How many of the health reforms that have never been said and written have actually led us to its antidote through different strategies, and it has come to almost all health services being paid? We are on the verge of another one, unlike perhaps less yesterday, of a criticised law, which generally went to make it easier for judges to work, but therefore the parties in the process will have to cost – so much more if it is poorer. Here, where the court is placed in a position that is simply calmly seen as some sort of consul Roman in the arena, which looks at gladiators, as parties suggest skill, suggesting that the court appreciates the metricity of the evidence presented, and ultimately, makes a verdict in the time it has just designated at the first hearing as some kind of rational time. What exactly do all these logical process actions show us? They say it'll cost someone more and cost someone less. Someone may come to the truth faster and simpler. Because, excessively, some small processes aren't too interesting and judges, a team before, when it is formally made known to them, that they are still passive observers in the whole story. Thousands of people will be interested in going on and on and on. We do not believe that we will have a smaller number of those who will complain in Strasbourg about it, and it is not a nice picture that in one reform procedure, walking towards Europe, we will again pass a law that will not significantly help. There are also a number of principled remarks to be made on this occasion. One job that can be seen here is one of the principles. The principle of discussion has been questioned in some ways, regardless of whether it is really correct to determine what will be tried in the council, what will be judged by the individual judge, but the fact is that by reading the written statement, the principle of right of debate is completely lost and brought into question. A phenomene of written statements that one party may refer to a court of law is without the possibility of a witness being heard. That's what we talked about yesterday, and that's one of the drawbacks. Whether the envisaged measures for the delivery of letters will really shorten the procedure remains to be seen. It is likely that there is a need for stronger mechanisms to be found at this initial hearing, which would lead the parties to come to court, and then within the time range, which defines as some kind of rational period of time, as some normal time range, which, when the judge looks at the material, can, in fact, expect a fair estimate, to really determine the right address and the right place of residence, and that, in the end, the process really speeds up. Is there any reason that only citizens are not satisfied enough? So, an ordinary little citizen tends to do these petty litigations, plus a divorce case, which unfortunately is in Serbia, because of a new system of values, is it more and more, will that cost them more or less? Is it as if coming to justice, to the truth, which, even in this law that was laid down yesterday, is just as if it were coming out of the area of interest of the judge, at least as far as the material is concerned, not in fact in front of the court you bring the truth? The citizens, usually small and unfortunate poor, will be concerned that now, for the ordinary appearance of the court, if they are unable to do so alone, or sometimes there is no need, let's say, if it is an inheritance, etc., or someone living abroad, they could have sent a power of attorney before, that someone should represent him, because he really doesn't need to be represented by a lawyer in the process, this time he's going to have to rely on some law firm and something that he's going to have to pay the lawyer. It is interesting to call into question what many legal services in municipalities, which have led to many municipalities in Serbia rank on whether they have developed a service for citizens and those who can write them an application, a complaint, etc., some kind of paper which is thought to be one of the lawsuit submissions, therefore, it will have to bring the seal of the attorney's office, regardless of who wrote it, even, as we heard, to do so by a lawyer or someone else, but it is not formally a lawyer. It seems that it may have been an unnecessary burden on this law and unnecessary slapping on the pocket. It's enough that the court will normally take enormous fees, especially in the second-degree procedure, to charge the relatively expected level of the case, but of course this is one of the details that he could, and we've tried many amendments to fix, to simply avoid this part. The worst thing is that the court is no longer obliged to seek the truth, but the richer party is the more interested party, a party that may be by hiring a stronger and more powerful, more prominent expert, the court will present such a measure of things, that if the judge is not interested, and is clearly not in the obligation, he may be able to reach a verdict that will later be the subject of the dispute. So, if the judges are not yet able to worry, because almost a third of them were somehow not found in the 2009 reelection list, which in itself can be very indicative, that with the judiciary something really fat wasn't right, and then whether only a third of them were wrong or maybe it's close to half or it's really a mistake, that it's still not a third, that there's a lot more people worth doing. With this network of judiciary, this number of judges and this number of litigation disputes we have in Serbia, the question is, are we really going to reach one of the draft laws defined by criteria – efficiency? We're talking about justice all the time. It's just that if that justice implies a payment, a skill, a supervision, etc., then indeed some people will remain deprived of rights, however much their need to prove their right seemed to be a more ridiculous or sometimes rigid law, like this one that pleads to be, it makes us welcome, that people simply stop suing nonsense. After all, it's constitutional law, and until we all have one catharsis and we go through one fact, that only when it's necessary, we have to leave that step and that possibility. Even lawyers have no excessive reason to rejoice, they will not get much more rich clients, but they will be much more formally bound by the obligation to collect relevant information, to keep in mind on what occasions and which party they treat, to take account of the court, because judges are at least reserved this right to participants in the dispute even punish. For a witch, for a wonderful miracle, no. This time, even this time, with this kind of reform, this is reformal because the law has been amended, it is not foreseen that you can, that the court can, apparently, see, although passively looking at the process before itself, punish the expert to take away the subject, to pay for what he didn't do, to delay the proceedings simply letting the expert know. The experts have already passed, got their law, got their rights, entered the register. Many of them are, more or less, famous. Many of them are able to simply agree with the party they represent delay the procedure. So the court could retain one of its possible privileges, to make it clear to the experts that they must be up-to-date in the process, not only to those who will receive a written, those who participate in the process, directly interested parties, that the litigators may at times lose the dispute because they really had to go to the hospital or go to some temporary work, waiting for everyone to invite him to the hearing or not. So these are some things where you might go. I'm not going to talk about all the details, the amendments or anything that's already been mentioned. We'll try to fix the amendments. Of course, we also have an objection to these three percent participation in actions the judge may have, his exception. Prolonging the dispute and moving the process just because of the judge isn't fair and it's not right. This should be borne in mind, that sometimes also a lawyer, a legal representative, sometimes the party itself, if it defends itself, may have reasons to move a fixed term and postpone the hearing, so that a new time frame may be formed. This should simply be put into law, for the court may honestly believe that there was a reason to exist, but there will be no legal basis for doing so. About that would be the details of this fundamental approach to our principle. I'll leave the rest of my time for my colleague, and I'll leave the details in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59723	Ten minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Sreto Peric, you can use ten minutes if you want now. Now you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, rule of law is the fundamental assumption of the Constitution as the highest written act of a country. The rule of law comes naturally through free and direct elections, the division of power, guaranteeing the Constitution of individual and minority rights, as well as the free and independent judiciary. In order to have a free and independent judiciary, we need to have good laws that regulate that area. One law that allows judges to be free and independent in their work is also a good law on litigation. The law on litigation is one of the procedural laws. Therefore, it regulates matter as well as how a certain procedure for the protection of subjective rights is conducted. Mostly subjective rights, and then they're numerous. This is one of the laws that may be applied to the largest number of citizens of one country, and thus ours to the largest number of Serbian citizens. He chooses neither gender nor age, nor religion, nor any other difference that exists with us. In an explanation, and Mrs. Minister, in her opening statements, representing this law in the National Assembly, said what the essence is and what it wants to achieve with this law. Your desire to achieve something good, that out of this mud in which Serbia's justice system is located try to pull something out and do it, it's not disputed for me. We are not meant to praise certain provisions now, and I must admit that several provisions in the 508 law, as many as there are, may lead to some better solutions, where perhaps this rule of law and affirm in one way that the citizens of a particular state want to have. It is essential for good legal theorists, of course, judges, lawyers, prosecutors, when they are not certain of any individual provision, especially which regulates procedural law, to look at the principles of the law. We, and you and I, and probably a number of citizens, know what these principles are and when we see how and how certain provisions are worked out in this law, how and how you explained it, then it is to conclude that you are slowly choking perhaps the most important principles that exist. One of these is, say, choice in the trial and the public. Besides, I'll talk about it later. When we speak and talk about judges, we must always say in the SRS that we have extremely good, professional, professional and very safe judges and we also have those who do not deserve to be in courtrooms, but in completely different places. We simply have such a situation, even in other occupations. Another difficult circumstance for you, Madam Minister, is that you are at the head of the Justice Ministry at the moment when many things are not defined. How do you give a high-quality answer to our holders of judicial functions on KIM, how do we integrate them, how do we integrate them, as some like to say, into this justice system of ours? You don't have a solution for that. Tried through this law in a litigation procedure to justify your reform of the law in the field of justice, on the one hand, and certainly the Law on the Network of Courts. You tried to shorten some deadlines that objectively seriousise a little of the judge's obligations, on the one hand and, on the other hand, choke quality, do not leave enough time and opportunity for the right and good judges to make good judgments. If some deadlines are limited, if some institutes that have been developed for years, perhaps for centuries in our positive legislation, do not exist or are reduced to a minimum, your wish was to show that even with this number of perpetrators can be achieved to have an effective judiciary. It's just not possible. Approximately, this is a waste of dust to your EU mentors, who expect much more from you in this regard. A large number of judges are still receiving undeserved wages. They may have unearthedly stayed out of the justice system, the SRS has spoken of it on several occasions, but if they're right, they have to work as judges. If they are wrong, then they must not receive any compensation from the Republic of Serbia's budget, at the expense of other citizens. Very often lately, all representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia say a public debate has been held on any legislative proposal that comes to parliament. We have nothing against a public debate, we are not particularly interested in a public debate in the form in which you conduct it, but we believe that for one such law, such as the Law on the Prosecution and yesterday the Law on Criminal Procedure was discussed, for a short period of 10 days, that the MPs, in nine days, are counting from the moment of sending to the procedure until the time of the debate, you will allow it to be very short. We want to conduct this debate in such a way as to point out your failures, to point out to you all the problems that exist in your ministry, that when you adopt some sublegal acts, which, by virtue of this or other law as a minister, you can bring in, to bring in good rules, to some, perhaps, if time permits, I will also point out on this discussion. My intention was to consult both lawyers and judges and professional workers, in addition to my experience in this area, but that was simply not possible to the extent that I wanted. In any case, a quality debate won't go away. The European Court of Human Rights rulings, you are also calling for that in an explanation. I told you in one of the previous discussions that we must once have those judgments, when they are brought by the European Court of Human Rights, if the result of the lack of knowledge or the lack of security of the judge who made it, that one day they must start to respond to those judgments or decisions, and not to give the price of those, is not always a matter of lack of expertise, but may also be corruption in the judiciary, that they do not bear the consequences of the citizens of Serbia. The principle of a reasonable trial is something that is detached and in parallel rights, and we often talk about it. Here's a good opportunity for you too, I don't know if you'll get a chance to meet with the chief Hague prosecutor these days, Mr Ignatovic said he'll talk to him on the subject that our convicts in The Hague tribunal can serve a sentence with us, and you can talk again about the trial within a reasonable period of time to Professor Vojislav Seselj. That's your obligation, that's the 10th and the 13th. The constitution, which states what is the obligation of the Serbian state authorities to its citizens, no matter who they are or where they are, and here we are talking about a Serbian citizen who is certainly better than everyone else. When it comes to what you might want to favour or especially point out, it is the EU's desire to protect consumer rights, so as to determine local jurisdiction based on consumer residence. Just to draw attention to the fact that a German firm, and you are very often referring to some laws from Germany, founded a company in Cyprus, sold out products imported from China and consumers did not have the opportunity to protect their products. I purposely cited the example from Cyprus, which was also in Serbia, which is more declarative than we will be able to really count on effective protection. The trial in the Chamber is one of the basic principles of the Law on Prosecution, but here in the full first-degree procedure it is avoided. Then, when it comes to public participation in the court procedure, it is not only about ordinary and professional public who can attend the procedure itself, but also about the participation of citizens in the process of conducting the procedure. There's no way in the first degree. There's another situation, I'd share it with you, can the Law of Parley Procedure put out of force the provisions of Family Law, specifically I mean Article 203? You're going to say that because you're already such a provision, it seems to me in article 507 of this bill, you predicted. I don't think that's right. Family law is a special law, and from this law on litigation, next to so-called. regular procedure, there are also a number of other shortened, special procedures. Family law is one special law where it's about emotional, some other rights. You even said that a member of 203 would be put out of force after the entry into force of this law. I don't think that's right, you didn't do it right. Delivery of submissions among the parties, we believe will not advance this procedure at all and will not shorten it, can only lead to confusion in the court. They are obliged after this to inform the court, but the question is what the consequences will be. The preparation of the main debate, there are judicial and legal deadlines, and here some court deadlines are favored, so the judge can make an assessment when it can objectively end a certain procedure. I think the deadlines should be respected. We need a more efficient and up-to-date judiciary, but not at all costs. We also have to allow judges sometimes to, on the basis of the evidence, make an assessment based on the fact that they can delay or may even interrupt a particular procedure. When it comes to the sentence of contempt of the court, we are certainly about for those who misbehave in the courtroom to be punished, but these amounts are intended, the question is how objective they are. I'll try one, only in the first degree it's over and nothing will be concluded from it, a verdict where certain participants are punished for saying "it's a shame that you represent one political party and its leader". That's why they're being punished. It is explained that such bold and reckless behaviour has endangered the calm of citizens. Now, someone from the King has endangered my serenity and others in Love, in Mali Zvornik or perhaps in Meroshina, with statements that someone is not worthy of representing a particular political party or political representative. When it comes to the solution of the previous question, I will conclude with this, you said here that the Supreme Court of Cassation should have made a decision, and at the request of the basic court, unless a well-founded proposal, that court will reject it. He does not punish the individual or court's mistake at all, he punishes and leads to the negative consequences of a prosecutor or a defendant. I don't think that's right. It is said that interpretation can be requested if this applies to a number of examples, and whether it is one, a hundred or perhaps a thousand examples that may request the opinion of the Supreme Cassation Court to make such a decision. There's still a lot of questions we should be asking you, and time doesn't allow. We hope that what we said, if you're thinking about a different network of courts, I think it's about time, and this has already shown that it's not sustainable and that it's not well solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59725	It was used 12 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. This concludes the morning part of the session. The work continues at 15.05 p.m., continuing the debate in order of the MPs. The first registered speaker is MP Srdjan Mikovic, followed by MP Mico Rogovic. [[After a break.]] We continue the session's work in the afternoon debate, and by order of the MPs and according to the application for a word, in principle, a review of the draft law on litigation. The speaker who's next gets the word. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, followed by MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59727	Madam Vice President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Today we are discussing the draft law on litigation law in principle and the fact that it is a very important law. People when they are in a situation to exercise their rights are often forced to address the court and to exercise those rights in a litigatory procedure. That is why it is important for the state and society that courts be effective and that judges, who are elected under judicial reform, are given an instrument that will practically be in a position to enable all those people who need to exercise their rights and only exercise those rights. If the courts had a good instrument and therefore the courts were effective, there would be no need to change, i.e. bring the CAP. However, we are witnessing that precisely because of some solutions in the current CAP, we are faced with ineffectiveness of the courts and a practically large number of citizens are filing constitutional complaints or performances before the European Court of Human Rights. It is normal in every country to try to ensure maximum citizens' rights in the ordinary procedure, means in regular courts, and therefore it is important that, during this debate on the CAP, both in principle and in amendments, we get as many better solutions as possible. It will depend on the efficiency of the courts. Surely we cannot reconcile with the situation that often creditors cannot exercise their rights and that precisely because of the inefficient procedure we come into the situation that many creditors have to lead long-term and expensive litigation, yet the debtors are in a favourable situation often avoiding their obligations, which is a good part of the contribution and indifference of the economy and many other more difficult consequences. The new CAP, I count on it to provide a more efficient and economical procedure before courts and contribute to the legal certainty of all legal entities. The bill was prepared by a serious working group, consisting of representatives, not only representatives of the justice ministry but also representatives of judicial officials of all stages and types of courts, lawyers, law professors. And today, when we are discussing the law in principle and when we discuss the law on details within a few days, it is certain that a large number of dilemmas will be opened whether an ideal solution has been found, or if there is a possibility that this good bill proposal, in a certain part, will be corrected and we will reach even better solutions, to clearer solutions or solutions that will in practice have better positive effects. I believe this bill provides all parties with the right to legal and equal and fair protection of their rights. This bill also carries certain changes to the legal solution so far. I think what's most important is that it's a time limit on the length of the procedure, so the litigation process itself. This contributes to the implementation of the principle of trial within a reasonable period, as it is foreseen that, at the beginning of the litigation procedure, the court, together with the litigation parties, is obliged to set a timeframe for the taking of legal actions. I think that it is clear to every citizen, and especially to people who are from the judiciary why it is so important, because it will create a certainty and perspective when a particular party can determine whether or not it has the right to do something that it considers right. I must say that, especially on behalf of the bill, it is that a special local jurisdiction has been established in special disputes. These are disputes for the protection of consumer rights towards the place of residence. That's something new. Then we can discuss whether a judge should judge an individual in the first degree or judge a greater one. I think this bill is good. That a judge should judge an individual in a first-degree procedure. We contribute to the savings, and yet I must say that the law is democratic enough that the constitutional right to a chamber trial is not compromised because the parties have the right to demand that they be tried more in a specific case. In the case of proceedings before a second-degree court and by emergency legal remedies, it is always more judgmental. I think this bill of law in this part is absolutely good and nothing further needs to be corrected. I think the bill well defines the issue of disfellowshipping the judge's exemption. In our previous legal practice before the courts, we have had situations to submit a proposal for the exemption of all judges of a given court, whether or not that judge judges or not in a concrete procedure, means in a specific case. I think this proposed solution in the bill is much better. With regard to the bill that the party can participate independently and through a power of attorney who can only be a lawyer, we can compromise on this. Personally, I think it's a good solution precisely because of all the responsibilities that a lawyer has and under the Law on Lawyerry that we've almost passed because it's not the same thing if someone as a lawyer comes before a court of law or someone who's just a graduate lawyer with a passed or without a legal exam or what the so far was a solution, even without a law school. The question of responsibility is not the same, and I believe that responsibility is at all levels and including the responsibility of a lawyer should be put in a different way than it has been before. I believe that this is a good solution although I consider it to be in a certain part, so in Article 85, it is a useful amendment, which our colleague, Mr Nenad Konstantinovic, has submitted, that Article 85 should be added to Article 2. "representation of the Republic of Serbia and its organs, units of territorial autonomy and local self-government is governed by special regulations," I am primarily referring to the first-level defence, all of these three levels. I think it's a useful amendment, I hope we can discuss it when we discuss the amendments, in particular. I would just like to taxively mention some of the things that are in the bill, which is the application of information technologies in the litigation process, a new moment that has not been regulated so far. Then, what's interesting is that the hearings in the litigation process can only be delayed exceptionally. The law itself regulates it in detail. The issue of writing delivery. This has been a major problem with litigation and parties' attempts to exercise their rights. We can only discuss the way, so if there's a modality to correct the delivery method itself, I think it's a good idea. I believe that the legal solution is also good if someone has a better solution to the team better, but I think it is good that on the basis of official data, and that is the residence records or the address of the legal person register, the exact code to which the party will try to deliver, and if the party does not appear, unless the party appears in court within 30 days, must not be threatened by avoiding receipts. I must say, once again, in terms of efficiency, it is specified that the court can stop the proceedings only when it is explicitly prescribed by a special law, and not when and by a free estimate, it appreciates that it is celery. It speeds up the process itself. I am also a prime minister, i.e. Mrs. Minister and many of my predecessors have mentioned all these new solutions, as regards the emphasis immediately on the preparatory hearing, which are all the facts disputed, which the evidence should be carried out and how it should be and when the timeframe for the implementation of the procedure is established. The Court of Justice shall, as a rule, appoint one hearing for the main debate, and there may be exceptions in a number of days consecutively or in certain spaces in accordance with the established timeframe. The definition of interdetermination is precise, its subject matter is legal nature. The verdict has been returned for the absence. In the bill of law, the truth is there are certain things that are for serious analysis. Especially when we're discussing the law in particular, but right now, I'd say only two things, which is Article 368. It's a bill of law. This is an assumption that the appeal against a first-degree ruling which requires the natural person to pay the claim whose principal does not exceed 300 euros in dinar equivalent, at the middle rate of the NBS, on the day of the decision, which requires the entrepreneur or the legal person to pay the claim whose principal does not exceed the export of a thousand euros in dinar equivalent at the middle-rate of the NBS on the day of the decision, does not delay the execution. This is also foreseen in terms of costs. However, if this member remains unchanged in relation to the draft law, I personally believe that there would be an enormous increase in the number of enforcement procedures, and in the event of success in the legal treatment procedure, as well as the number of anti-execution proceedings in the case of unfounded charges and the like. The question would you be a pointless institution of appeals? Legally speaking, I did not find such a provision to exist, and its formulation in my opinion is to mix the solutions from the administrative procedure in litigation, i.e. from the enforcement procedure in litigation. The formulation of this provision is the matter of law enforcement and security, not the Law on litigation. Finally, the question arises when in the case arises as a party, i.e. as a debtor, a natural person and an entrepreneur, i.e. a legal person, for example, as solid debtors, compensation for damages and traffic, and if we come to a situation where the verdict is between three thousand and one thousand euros of equivalentness. Is it possible for a legal person to proceed immediately, and according to a physical person, only to be resolved by appeal? So, it's a questionable provision. I think there's a basis for that in Article 368. We discuss the bill in detail. So, no matter what I have to say again, the intention of the bill promoter is not at all questionable. Because the fact is, in many ways, the debtor throws out and looks at how he can't carry out his obligation, but let's see that efficiency in a certain way, another way to solve it. I have one more thing to say, that I have a grudge, and I'm saying it's capital debt because you know how things are going to be discussed, and the question is, can anyone determine that he's right? That's what I'm saying on the subject of the Reviszione value, whether it's the equivalent of 100,000 euros or 300 thousand euros, whether it's equivalent to 200,000 euros or 100,000 euros in economic disputes and how much. So it's discriminatory, because no one can claim it, to say absolutely right, because it calls into question an extension in some cases an unwarranted extension of the duration of the procedure. However, on the other hand, certain cases of drug testing such as review should be allowed. So these are some things and I've submitted amendments to those members but I'm not saying I'm right, nor can I suggest it, I've submitted more amendments here to discuss it one more time, to open that topic to see, to measure what that real value is for reviewing. But one thing, where I think we should all take it seriously, is Article 474, where in economic disputes, the disputed facts are proved exclusively by means of papers. I have submitted the amendment, that it is a rule of proof that if the disputed facts were to be proved solely by the documents, the possibility of a whole set of provisions of positive legal regulations would be excluded, thus eliminating the possibility of applying the Institutes of Depreciable Contracts, delusions, threats, coercion, and subsequent interference with the existence of a whole series of contracts for which the Law on Liabilities is not intended to be written, means the lease of a buy-in contract is excluded, the possibility of proving that a contract has arisen and that it exists because it is impossible to prove compliance as the will of a contract for which no written form is prescribed and practically makes this provision completely unusable and non-applicable provision of Article 471. FP1 bet. That formulation eliminates and uses the name of an expert that is inadmissible in commercial disputes, even under the provisions of the CAP which regulate the documents, means Articles 238 to 243 as well as the provisions of the Law on Judicial Experts do not provide for the findings of the expert to have the property of the document. In addition to the exceptional, it is not possible to use these documents as a business correspondence of parties in carrying out contractual obligations and business correspondence is not intended as a document other than financial and accounting documents, and commercial disputes are not only about payment or non-payment, but also about a whole set of legal institutes that do not have to be at the level of financial and accounting documentation. So in that part, I think there's a reason for us to discuss when we're discussing individual members. Here, I'm taking the opportunity, a little now I've abused the situation that, in principle, I mention two specific members by assessing this bill as good. As extraordinary as I said yesterday when we discussed the draft law on criminal proceedings in those six eight or these 508 members, it is certain that each individual can find something to point to with his finger and say – e, I think this should be dealt with differently. However, these 508 members are also appointed to formulate such a bill is not a small deal. It's a big job because I congratulate those who participated in the Working Group and everyone who contributed to this bill coming to us because I think it's a good bill. It gives new solutions, not just for reviewing, but I must say that the proposal to repeat the procedure is now the most important legal remedy under this bill. In line with this proposed extension of the reasons as well as the extension of the deadline for the statement of this legal remedy. I must point out that this bill contains provisions governing specific litigation procedures and this process of consumer disputes, then the procedure for the protection of collective rights and the interests of citizens. In any case, we are now in a position to discuss this law to work it out and prepare it until the day for the vote, so it should be as it should be. This bill should enter into force on 1 February 2012, and this debate should also contribute not only to the professional public, but also to the general public to know what awaits them after 1 February 2012, in terms of the conduct of proceedings in the litigation process. I congratulate you once again on the draft law, and I call on you, after the adoption of certain amendments that we can further improve this text of the law, to declare the law on litigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59728	Twenty minutes has been used since the MP's group. The word is from MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic. There are 14 minutes available to the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59729	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have before us a draft law on litigation, and once again I must repeat the position of the SNS, that the text of this law contains a very large number of new solutions and that, therefore, it will modernise the litigation process. What I want to talk about in this part of the principle debate in the details of the amendments, not just me, but other parliamentary groups, and I think that you should take account, because this old law is experiencing changes, but to go further into the amendments to this law, I think that a litigation procedure would lead to some of its opposites. I therefore appeal to you and to the representatives of your ministry that all our proposals, regardless of which parliamentary groups they come from, listen, see how cellulous, reasonable they are and that they find places in the new draft law on litigation, since further altering the litigation procedure or the Law on litigation could lead to litigation in its opposite. It is impossible for both this bill and the old and some future law on litigation to solve all accumulated legal-political problems. This part of the problem must be solved in some other way, and solutions are hidden in some organisational problems, then in human beings and also in material problems. When I talk about this, I just want to point out and say that the SNS position is not on the side of either Belgrade's Bar of Lawyers, nor Serbia's Bar of Lawyers, and that's where I'll end up, but also add just one more sentence. This is a common, small and misused subject. The ministry of justice, by its inaction with the conflict of these two legal chambers, makes the situation more complicated and the situation that in the future we may also have problems in the field of tax administration, the area of finance, in the area of various judicial solutions and epilogues of judicial proceedings, given the legitimacy of individual lawyers, i.e. the legal chambers of Belgrade and, in this case, Serbia, so once again in front of the SNS parliamentary group, I urge the Ministry of Justice to take these problems into account in the next period and to bring about a reasonable solution and disputes. What I wanted to pay particular attention to in this part of the exhibition is that the replacement comes in writing with a verbic adjective, and that verbic adjective is written and unnecessary and wrongly replaced, according to the SNS, in my personal opinion, and not only unnecessary and wrong but also inconsistencies in the application of these terms. Thus, for example, in Articles 14, 64, 91, 93, 100, 120, 126, 250, 251, 256, 342 and 477, a replacement was made or accompanied by a written Glagolitic adjective, whereas, for example, when we talk about inconsistencies in this replacement, Articles 136, 136a item 2 and 144, 243, 341 and so on, the replacement was not carried out, i.e. in writing with Glagolitic adjectives written. Probably in the part of these members she wanted to make a language correction compared to the current text of the law on litigation. However, here we must bear in mind the fact that the term, i.e. the noun, or adjective, in writing, needs us in this context to be interested only in the form of legal form and not in terms of language error. So type documents - statements, contracts can only have a form written, not a form written. On the other hand, the glagolitic adjective indicates that the noun stands for the action, so when we say that the contract, or documents or statements can be written, the contract can also be photocopyed, printed or the like, so we think that the term is written and applied in the old law compared to the new bill is much more comprehensive and logical, and this is not just an example here. We also have in the field of education and education the situation that traditional terms – written exercises, written assignments, now use some other terms for them – written task or written exercise, which is neither in tradition with Serbian language, especially here in the context of the law, or the draft law on litigation procedure should interest us only legal form. I would only stick to Article 7 and Article 13 in this part of the principle debate for the reason of a simple finding that we want to show that the old members of the current Law on the litigation process have better use and that they did not have to change them, and I will remain in the further part of the debate on the members of the 7th and especially on Article 13 which covers part of the insurance companies, i.e. about the litigation process and the role of the insurance companies in the litigation process, and I will refer to the part of the story, which is part of my colleague, within the meaning of Article 13, as well as to the Vice-President of the Assembly, and I hope that here, especially with regard to objections to Article 13, you will have understanding, because I think that the interests of the citizens, the people who are damaged, the procedure, i.e.e. the damaged must have greater importance in relation to the part and the role of the insurance companies in this law. In the case of Article 7 of Article 2 in the old law, we believe that it is a fundamental mistake in prescribing that the court will determine only the facts that the parties have made. The Court of Justice shall not, in this respect, have the right to establish facts which the party has not presented, other than, of course, it shall be supplemented in the following paragraph 3 where, solely for the purpose of preventing, the parties are not allowed to be made available. It is a purely justified rule that the Court only implements the evidence proposed by the parties, but it is unacceptable that the court cannot conclude on the existence of facts which the parties have not taken and which are very important for both the verdict and the decision. Let's take an example of how, say, the party put out the fact that it was cheated. The above evidence in the proceedings shows that there is no fraud because of the lack of a false intention by the opposing party, but there is an apologising error with the party, however, this fact cannot be taken into account by Article 7 because the parties did not make the same statement. Now, in the further part of the exhibition, I'd like to remain, according to us, on the disputed article 13. The draft law on litigation, which, for the sake of the public, I must read, read, reads: "In a litigation against the perpetrator of a criminal offence, the court is bound by a judicial verdict, which finds the defendant guilty." Item 2 of the same article: "The judicial decision of the criminal court does not produce a legal fact in a litigation against a person who has not had the opportunity or the right to participate in the criminal proceedings to which the decision has been made". We have also proposed and submitted an amendment to delete the proposed Article 13 in full and that the old law should remain a member who says that in the judicial proceedings and in view of the existence of a criminal offence and the criminal liability of the perpetrator in connection with the judicial verdict of the criminal court to which the defendant is found guilty. I think what we suggested was a universally accepted solution in all modern democratic legal systems. For the sake of the public, I need to read the argument that you have made, given the introduction of Article 13(2), in particular, highlighted and explained, which reads in Article 13(2). The law provides that the judicial decision of the criminal court in the case does not produce a legal fact against a person who has not had the opportunity or the right to participate in the criminal proceedings in which that decision has been taken. You further state that such a solution took into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Austria, which found that the fact of the criminal verdict on persons who did not take part in the criminal proceedings, especially in the case of insurance companies, would be a violation of the right to access to a court, i.e. an infringement of Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. Neither did you provide us with a translation of the Austrian Constitutional Court's decision into Serbian, nor do we know if this exists. It's simple, you say. We believe that the position of Article 13 has caused great damage to the elemental integrity of the judicial system, and in particular damages and inaccessible endangers the rights of persons damaged in criminal matters. With the proposed solution, you're starting from a radical and true unsustainable state, that the truth that's determined enough to send someone to prison is not enough truth for the insurance company to pay for the damage. Let us take one case where the Serbian government, in other words, suggests that, for example, orphans who have lost their parents in a car accident, after a criminal court has convicted the defendant of an accident and put him in prison, must again, at first, prove with a uncertain outcome that the convicted convict is indeed in the litigation of the winemaker. This means a new procedure, new skills, new witnesses, evidence, litigation, legal costs, and a litigation procedure that can prove whether or not something good has been done in the criminal proceedings. If the criminal proceedings and the proceedings that occurred, the decision resulting from it is reasonable enough and clear enough to send the defendant to prison, it is not reliable enough for the insurance company to pay for the damage. One absurd and indeed in what I'm going to say further, please pay attention. In this explanation, we have not taken any examples from the legal systems of the legal frameworks of other states, for example, other countries of Europe, or countries of the American continent, but we are citing a decision, some decision of the Constitutional Court, we do not know in any case, on any basis and here we are putting ourselves in a position to literally put ourselves aside by insurance companies, and against the interests of the broad masses that can be in these proceedings. I must give you a quote that the aim is to ensure that the reputation of criminal justice is not violated by the contradiction between the two convictions that could arise if the judicial court determines the relevant facts, regardless of what the criminal court found, "Citizen's Procedural Law", author and professor Dr. Borisvoje Poznić and Professor Dr. Vesna Rakić-Vodenilić, release of 1992 by page 72. So someone should re-enter the evidence already proven and established on their cost and set it under much stricter rules and with a high degree of respect for the civil and procedural rights of the accused, if by the Serbian government, it is really too much in this situation. In addition, someone from your ministry is involved in the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Austria. I have decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia that are not respected and we don't know who should carry them out. We have a sea of disputes and we're dealing with some decision, and we don't know on any subject of the Constitutional Court of Austria, and if we have to deal with it, I really don't have a comment. This is not the first time the Serbian government has dealt with insurance companies in this way and referred to regulations, in this case in the Law on Prosecution, on special relations between the Serbian government and the insurance company. I must remind you that on May 21st 2010, this same government in Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, 34/10, brought an amazing regulation on damages to the face.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59730	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59731	Thank you. We'll continue in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59732	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, we listened as carefully as we did yesterday to your opening statement and we realized that there are some differences, which is normal, these are two different substances, civil and criminal rights, but we also saw that if we applied logically the interpretations that are appropriate in this case of the bill, you would see that here you are more referring to some continental legal tradition than in the previous Criminal Procedure Act, which, you will admit, is illogical. You have to apply the same method for both the same and the other significant code because it's about laws that are 600 and 500 members, which is huge and bring one newspaper into our legal system. Also, you have called personally and are calling for reasons of the law at the European Court of Human Rights. This is about Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees a fair trial, within the framework of it and the position 1 guaranteeing the trial within a reasonable period of time. We have nothing against it, it's one civilizational fluid, legal, whatever you want, which is necessary in every legal system, including ours and in all other systems. However, we do not understand, when we look at the reasoning of the law, and for example. Your Secretary of State Slobodan Homen's statement, that this code is being passed, that is, the bill is addressed in the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for, let me say, more freely to express myself, shortening the time limit of the trial, shortening procedures and bringing into the frameworks of the European Convention of Article 6 on a reasonable period. On the other hand, we see in the explanation that it is an emergency procedure, because it is necessary to bring Serbian law into line in this area with EU directives and regulations. So I'm specifically asking you -- what's the real reason, what's the basic reason for this law? Even more strangely, the public debate about this law was started at the Palace of Justice, if I'm not wronged 14th of this year, which you'll admit more than a little, and more than enough for a law that has almost, in fact, about 500 members, if I'm not mistaken. So, I think these facts of the reasoning of the law and the law of the public debate say that there was no public debate and it shows that there is no real objective of adopting such a serious law. On the other hand, we think that you have some changes, somewhere there are good changes and most of them are bad, but there are good ones, that you could have achieved in one way more appropriate, and these are changes of the law, not making new ones. And also, here, we're re-emerged in an inappropriate formulation, that the court is an arbiter, and we already have some definitions that remind us of the arbitration procedure, of the arbitration. We believe, and in this context we brought yesterday into the debate on the Criminal Code, that the judgment is he who judges and the court is, in accordance with the principle of truth, the one who, i.e. The judge, the chairman who determines the truth and this is part of the principle of truth, which, you will admit, in continental tradition is more than important. In that sense, we looked back, and our amendments and our presentations are based on, say, the experience of professor. Rajovica, already mentioned by Mr. Jojic and who, you will admit, is the greatest authority in this area and has been known to every law school student in the last 30 years, who has been taking this matter. Of course, there's a lawyer called Besarić, etc. But first of all, I'm saying it's a kind of professional criticism, not unprincipled. You're talking about efficiency in the reasoning of the efficiency law that is necessary, but, you know, inappropriate definitions are that it's a debt profit. It's not about the debt profit. The European Union directive itself, which you are calling upon, speaks of a delay. When it comes to profit in commercial law, it can only be defined in accordance with trusts, and the member who tells us and the explanation that you have called for the Constitutional Court of Austria's ruling, and in relation to insurance companies, tells us and challenges a kind of established doubt that it is a non-principled solution that will allow for even greater abuses that exist on the financial market, where the banks from Austria and insurance companies from Austria are dominated. We will have what the governor of the National Bank of Serbia was trying to fail to prevent, and this is the use of the users of financial services, i.e. To be clear, it is a retroactive increase in interest, large margins and interest, which are the largest in Europe after Moldova, which is scandalous. So we think this solution will primarily benefit Austrian banks and Austrian insurance companies. If you already wanted to appeal to the parallel law of the European Union, which, yes, we are not aprioriers against it, but I will give you a much better example, it is the ruling of the Constitutional Court of Germany in the case of Mastrix. You certainly know about it, and the ruling of the Constitutional Court of Germany regarding the Lisbon Treaty, where, I paraphrasise, is literally said to be – that the national law of Germany means Germany or the leading countries of the European Union above the aquimunaires. That's totally acceptable. And this, to get out of context one ruling from the Constitutional Court of a single country, and to favour it, I do not say personally, but as it will be in practice, are favored by monopolies from a country of the European Union, Austria, which have almost 20% of the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, you will admit that it is not appropriate, slightly said. Also, as far as some of the solutions that you represent about efficiency and reasonable timing are concerned, we used this book. This is Mr. Slavoljub Caric, you know for sure who he is, it's a representative of the Republic of Serbia at the European Court of Human Rights, and the book is called "Right to trial within the Development Time". There we have seen many better solutions, which could have been applied in this law, than those that are in our opinion, are undefined, that the court and parties will set some reasonable deadline, which you will admit, are the least abstract, insufficient and imprecisely. We have seen in this book and in other materials that we have studied, for example in Slovakia it is about shortening the procedure and bringing in accordance with this reasonable deadline set out in Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights - employs additional cadres. It's a very simple solution. You need as someone in charge of the judiciary to fight, let's say, with the minister of finance, to get even more resources to get more professional staff employed, and thus you will get to that end of the bill – a reasonable period of trial. On the other hand, in Poland you have a completely different solution. There are penalties for overcoming a reasonable 2,500-euro deadline. In Britain, you have an entirely inapplicable system for us. It shows that you were wrong when you used the Criminal Code, the CAP tried to comply with the Anglo-Saxon code. There trials last for even a day, which is absurd and inapplicable. It is nonsense to try to apply an Anglo-Saxon right to a country like Serbia, where it is a dominant continental right. In every bill, as I recall, in the last two, three years, we have some kind of patheticly named compliance table with European law, with EU law, etc. Just like you did in the previous Criminal Procedure Act yesterday, it's not clear what you're calling for here. You are talking about secondary EU law, regulations and directives, and you are not talking about something that is the primary source. Somewhere you have confusion, not you personally, but someone who prepared that accompanying file. You're talking about the SAA, you're talking about regulations, directives, but you're not talking about what happened. The constitution of the EU, the Lisbon Treaty, which just determines that the regulation, for example, is not some difference that does not matter, that the regulation is the most significant act of secondary law, or a legal act. It's about definitions. Please, you have to be precise. I think it is devastating for you as a ruling coalition, and for the Ministry you are leading, that we from the SRS must warn you, which we are against EU apriors, not only because of KIM, but also because, in economic and any other sense, it is harmful for the Republic of Serbia, we are warning you of errors in the application and interpretation of akicommunaires. It is a scandal and it is something that is repeated, not only in your ministry, but also in Mr Djelic, who is responsible for the so-called. European integration. We also very carefully studied this of yours, how I will call it a form of harmonisation of these two directives and regulations, in fact, instructions rather than directives, and I spoke of it yesterday as an inappropriate term, with Serbian legislation. This shows the basic absurdity of our legislation, of this law and of this whole megalomanic and unrealistic thesis that it can adapt Serbian law to EU law, at a time when Serbia neither knows nor anyone in this hall knows when it will be an EU member. What exactly am I trying to say? Here you are referring to two regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please, the basic logic and logical interpretation tells you that the regulation is a legal act of European law that can be applied, firstly, only in a Member State, and secondly, only on condition that it is fully applied. Here I'm proving to you, in your form, you have dozens and dozens of formulations-- uncoordinated, impossible, partially aligned. So this form is a farce. That "expert" that made that form for you, he did it, to say the least, scandalous. Our proposal and some constructive criticism comes down to the fact that it is simply not applicable something that is not even applied in Germany or in other EU Member States. Such a bill creates only one legal confusion, one chaos that will rule in courts. The only benefit one will benefit from this law, which I say to you responsibly, is the confidence of Western European monopolies in the banking sector. Of course, these are EU banks and insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59734	MP Mirko Munjic has a word. I'm sorry. First of all, MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59735	I thank you, Madam President, the Honorable Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to make a move and try to demystify this story of a large number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. There is a perception in our professional and wider public that only the citizens of Serbia seek the protection of their rights from this court. On the contrary, it is not so. There are no sociologically unconflict societies, nor are EU member states such a society where everything is ideal and perfect. A large number of cases discussed and decided by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg come from EU member states, as well as from the member states of the Council of Europe, thus Serbia. It is good that the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, among other things, was one of the starting points when defining the individual institutes that have been incorporated into the Code of Criminal Procedure, which we are discussing today. It is difficult now without insight into the Official Messenger or the National Assembly website to memorize what we have passed all the laws in the area of judicial reform. I will say only a few of them – the Law on Implementation and Security, the Law on Lawyerry, the Law on Public Registration and a whole series of other procedural and material legal laws but in these three and a half years, we, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, discussed, changed amendments, corrected and finally adopted. The end of the judicial reform is unimaginable without a new criminal code and a new law on litigation. It was debated yesterday and today, and we will discuss it in the next few days according to the amendments. All of us, as MPs, must understand and understand the importance of this law, no matter how widely it may seem to the general public, in some political sense, uninteresting or narrow procedural law, such as the Law on Prosecution, which is the most important tool, the tool to which the court manages the litigation and which the parties use their material rights, individual rights of the parties, whether it is the defendant, whether it is the prosecutor, or their attorneys. It is not true that to a significant extent, the ineffectiveness of our courts, among other things, is due to the system of the Law on a litigation procedure, in general to matter and one legal order in which we have been living for perhaps 50-60 years, with certain changes. That's why I think this is the right time to round up this segment of judicial reform, by passing this law. It's not true what one of the esteemed colleagues who spoke before me said that we here are incorporating and artificially glued some of the solutions from Anglo-Saxon law into our continental legal system. On the ground of continental Europe, there is not in traditional terms a continental legal system, but it is a mixture and a solution of Angolan law and what is built into this law here through certain procedural institutes from the Anglo-Saxon system that enables more efficiency in the work of litigation courts, or civil-law cases. What is important, and with regard to the principles on which this law rests, or the bill, is that these principles are no longer merely declarative, normative, as we had in previous, or currently applicable law, these principles are indeed elaborated in the subsequent chapters of this law, in the provisions on special procedures, in the provisions on regular and extraordinary legal medicines. First of all, the principle of disposition is consistently affirmed and implemented through the possibility of settlement of parties throughout the proceedings until the judicial decision has been brought forward, as has been the prosecutor's right to withdraw the suit also to the decision. Inquisitor, or so-called The inquisitor principle, as so far in the case, has been replaced by the principle, the increased principle of the party's initiative and the principle of contradiction. The Court will take into account, that only the facts proposed by the parties are discussed and taken into account, which in my view is quite logical and justifiable, because the litigation procedure serves to apply civil material law from different areas, first of all from the Law on Bonds and, of course, all other laws. That is why the party's initiative, their disposition is crucial and they have their own claim. Both the actor and the reos and the prosecutor and the defendants have their own claim, i.e. the defendant has his own position, his procedural and legal position and his right. There is no need for the Court of Justice to carry out those evidence actions, to determine the facts which the parties did not propose, except in exceptional cases as well as normised in this law. The trial within a reasonable period, we talk much about this over the course of the three years since we discussed and when we discussed many laws and when we discussed the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which in no small number of cases decided and ruled that in certain cases the courts in the Republic of Serbia did not judge within a reasonable period of time and thus violated one of the fundamental rights on which European society rests. How to implement the principle of judgment within a reasonable period? I repeat again, this is a principle, but it did not remain at the level of principle, but was elaborated through the provisions given in this Code, that, at the beginning of the litigation procedure, the court, together with the litigation parties, is obliged to set the time frame for the taking of litigation actions, and therefore the responsibility for the execution of the trial is evenly distributed to the court, but in the first place in the litigation parties, the prosecutor and the defendant. The principle of bonafide, well known enough, especially to colleagues who are now sitting in this hall who are waved by law, and a number of other newspapers give this law, let me say, the attribute of one regulation that will, above all, enable effective and rapid protection of individual rights of citizens, such as natural persons or economic operators and other forms of legal persons that protect their rights before the court. The paper, therefore, is also the establishment of specific local competences in consumer rights disputes towards consumer residence. As for the principle of the Assembly, it still exists, but again in the context of party disposition, that is, the possibility of the party seeking to judge the larger in disputes, and not the individual judge who, and I welcome it, Madam Minister, will welcome this solution that in the highest number of cases in the first degree the judge will judge the individual. This also contributes to the speed and efficiency of the litigation process itself. What we discussed in this previous procedure when this law was in the public debate phase, the drafting of the draft and what was discussed in the bar, and we discussed it with representatives of your ministry, was a dilemma over the definition and position of the attorneys of the litigators. There were more variations, there were more proposals, and I think the worst version would have been that there was left in the current law, that is, the current law on litigation, that the party could act alone in front of the court, that there was no authority, that it was represented by a lawyer, and that it represented any business capable and full-time natural person. I think that's the worst solution in this area. It would have been that way. Now we have a situation that the party can represent only a lawyer. It is not, therefore, about the potential and the emphasis of one notor fact that when a party is representing a lawyer to go faster, that it is cheaper for parties, that it is cheaper for the budget, that it is cheaper for the state, for the taxpayers, it is also a consistent application of the principle of availability of justice and the principle of fair trial, because the person represented by the professional will surely exercise his individual rights more easily and faster than when represented by a qualified and professional person, but someone who is a legal layman. Therefore, the trial within a reasonable period of time, to return to this segment only for a short time, implies that both the court and the litigation parties are obliged to adhere to a fixed timeframe, and the delay of the hearing is intended only as an exception. The postponement of the hearing is known by colleagues who are both of this matter and by vocality, and also by those who do not know about it, that the delay of the minority hearing was practice and rule, and the maintenance of the hearing at some given time intervals, I will not say that there was an exception, but simply the litigation that lasted ten years and more is the consequence, among other things, of the bad solutions that existed in these procedural laws before this law that we are discussing today. Also, the efficiency of the procedure and the speed of the case resolution contribute to the provisions on the delivery of letters, i.e. this part may seem trivial, uninteresting, but delivery is a very significant action during the litigation process and it affects the speed of dispute resolution. Such a solution prevents abuses, malfeasances by, in the first place, sued in civil proceedings, in litigation. Therefore, a solution which states that the Court will establish the address of the legal person, i.e. in the records of the residence of the natural person, by means of an insight into the Agency for Economic Registers. If that face is not found there, the court deliverer will leave him a notice to come to court within 30 days and take it in writing. When 30 days pass, that person does not appear, it is writtenly pointed out on the court’s notice board and is therefore considered to have been delivered. So, writing delivery as an area, the sub-authority in this matter is effectively solved. The preliminary issues were also, to say, resolving previous legal issues, i.e. preliminary issues, problematic, discriminatory and often impediments to continuing proceedings when something in the course of the case appears as a previous issue. This law provides a good solution - that the Supreme Cassation Court, which is in charge of resolving the issue of the disputed legal issue, is obliged to refuse, to resolve the disputed legal issue, if it is not important to decide in a number of cases in proceedings before first-degree courts. This is a solution in line with the European Court of Human Rights' practice in Strasbourg. So far, the court has stalled the procedure when it estimated that it was cellificial, therefore, very arbitrarily and largely disposed to the court to appreciate the overallity of the reasons for stopping in the proceedings. The procedure can now only be stopped in cases which are explicitly prescribed in this law. A whole series of other provisions concerning the evidence process, the evidence, are also well resolved in the context of what I was talking about, therefore, in the context of establishing a time frame for the implementation of the procedure. This would be approximately something that I thought was important and appropriate to point out at this stage of the debate, as extremely good solutions that correct the entire process-law system in civil-legal disputes, in litigation proceedings. There are some topics that we have also opened today by individual colleagues from both the opposition and the parliamentary majority. I believe that we, as members of the Committee on Justice and MPs, too, and you, of course, Mrs Malovic, should seriously consider all the amendments that have been submitted. I'm saying, there's some issues open about, like, an example of, like, a review census, whether it's that limit or not. One topic has been opened, I have submitted an amendment, I will not explain it in detail now, but I will say that it refers to a trial in economic disputes in which Article 484 provides for the court to judge solely on the basis of an id. We ask, therefore, first of all, as people of the legal and legal profession, one question – is this solution correct? I don't think so. There is an economic dispute and an institute of destructive contracts, where delusions, threats and coercion must be established. There is also a disturbance of the state, proof of the existence of a whole series of bonds contracts, etc. If the court judges only on the basis of an id, never will these material legal institutes, the facts of these material legal institutes will be able to determine. That is why I have submitted an amendment that the court in economic disputes, as a rule, not exclusively, determines the disputed facts on the basis of the documents. I want to say that emergency legal medicines are regulated on the principles that I have talked about and which have already been incorporated into the principles of this procedure, therefore, and regular legal medicines and emergency legal medicines, and I think it would be necessary to consider the possible correction of the solutions given for the revision, or that area concerning labour disputes, to consider from that point of view whether the working dispute in all segments is therefore both the constitution and the existence and the termination of work relationship, always suitable for the declaration of an emergency legal remedy review, or whether we have prescribed it "copy-paiste" from all previous laws. Also, I want to point out, if I'm wrong, possibly, you correct me, Mrs. Malovic, the procedural position of a lawyer, representing a litigator, whether a prosecutor, or a defendant, or a legal person, in my opinion is not equal to the position of a public defender and a public prosecutor who is extremely capable of acting, although it is rarely in practice, but above all I think of public defendership as a body representing the property interests of the Republic of Serbia or public defenders representing the interests of local self-government, in that part where this bill of law norms, just as the former law norms that an unsettled submission of lawyers, the power of lawyers, is rejected, while the unskilling submission of the party suggests that the ignorant party corrects, but the public defender's submission, which is messy, is not rejected. I think we should intervene or discuss this at the next session of the Justice Committee on the situation. I believe that in some way the parties are placed in an unequal position. So, the party represented by the lawyer, if it has a messy submission, is rejected, and the public defender's submission, which is messy, is not dismissed but returns to the public defender as an ignorant party. Both the lawyer and the public defender are graduate lawyers with a legal exam, have a number of years of experience, and I think there should be some balance, in terms of the equality of these persons involved in the procedure. I would like to say once again that this law is rounding up, largely, judicial reform, one colossal job for these three and a half years, in which we have adopted a whole series of material and legal regulations, procedural and legal regulations, and during this period of time, to say this historic business, which is reform of the Spanish judiciary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59736	I thank MP Vlatko Ratkovic. I give my word to MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59737	Madam Minister, we have learned, thank God, from the reasons why a new law on litigation should be passed, that the existing 2004 law, along with its 2009 amendments, did not make it possible. What, by your argument, did this existing 2004 law not allow? First, he did not allow, as you say, a more efficient and economic procedure for prejudices. Furthermore, this 2004 law, instead of which you will vote on a new law on litigation, did not allow citizens' rights to be exercised, then did not allow the legal certainty of all legal entities and ultimately did not directly enable the development and prosperity of the Serbian state. So, after seven years of applying this law, we found out what he didn't make possible. Better after seven years than never. The question arises – what has this law done, what has it made possible? This law allowed, firstly, the enormous wealth of a small number of people through the so-called so-called. as you say duet profits, although that's not an adequate term at all, but let's accept that kind of expression. Furthermore, it has enabled, on the other hand, one enormous poverty of the largest number of citizens. As a result of his actions or not in litigation, he allowed hundreds of thousands of workers to lose their jobs. All of this, over the past decade, has contributed to huge corruption in Serbia's entire justice system. The consequences of this and this kind of corruption in the justice system, Madam Ministers, are visible everywhere and anywhere. Many of you have received from your EU friends about corruption in the judicial system and indeed these painful facts for you, not to remind you, I hope you all know them well. Let's say something about how you say it about debt profits. You want, by this law, to actually, as you say, root out the debt profits from our legal practice. But to whom, in the end, will this apply, who will all be affected? For example, who will be touched by the Law of Conduct and Security? Are those you're trying to eliminate for what's-his-name? debt profits, whether they find those big players who actually owe the most, or actually find those who are practically losers of transition all these years. Can these regulations even be tang by those tycoons who owe their suppliers hundreds of millions of euros, or as was the case so far, no one will be allowed to approach. Will the private contractors you have set up by the Law on Enforcement and Security, who, again, have the right to hire some other privates in order to force the debts of the trash now to approach these great players who are sure I'm a featherer of what you say is a debt profit. If they can't get close to them, they won't know for sure that they can't get close to them. How, then, do you actually charge hundreds of millions of euros that they owe to their suppliers? Who are untouchable to whom neither the state apparatus can do anything, let alone some law on litigation or some litigation against them. But, gentlemen, ministers, it's a head-to-sand, it's looking through your fingers, and even the open stretching of those tycoons, by sometimes saying that they're managers of the year, remember that too? In fact, there's only one thing that's quite clear, and it's not a bit of a coincidence, you know, because it's not by chance that this bill on litigation can contribute to and create conditions for eradicating how you say debt profits. Why can't he? Because it's actually repaying debt, right? Simply, the debt must be paid back to those who have created a policy, who eventually created a government and who ultimately hold this government. How this law will eradicate the enormous so-called. As you say, debt profits, by the big players, when they're actually most often out of litigation. How do you bring them into litigation? You know, how they do business, Madam Minister? I suppose you know, but I'm going to say for public reasons - they take goods from suppliers by currency from 60 to often 120 days, right? The first amount is usually not paid, you know, they're a little more perfidious than gamblers. The last one doesn't pay with gamblers, and the first one doesn't pay. Furthermore, the basic rule with them is that one who is owed must not seek his debt, that is the basic rule. Unfortunately, the debtors in this case, these big players are following that old rule "wait for me if you want, if you don't have to", may never be paid or followed by that old Montenegrin saying, "the debtor will pay back if the rust is too long," I said this so that they would say in the new Montenegrin language, and I hope you all understand it because it's basically Serbian. It is an interesting solution that you foresee in Article 67(2). Proposal for a law that regulates the disfellowshipping of a judge in the performance of a judicial function. So, it says here -- if the judge is a shareholder, he owns more than three percent of the shares in the total capital of the legal person, he will exclude himself from the proceedings, according to point 2 of the proposed Article 67. Now, look out, Madam Minister, even more interesting is your explanation for this. It says, about like this, no judge of a commercial court could judge a procedure where the party is one of the public enterprises whose actions are divided into all citizens. I'm sorry, but this is ridiculous. Here, I'll tell you why. You limit the share rate to three and more of the total capital of a public enterprise as one of the reasons for disfellowshipping judges, right? And that's what you're justifying, that they're almost all citizens, and also judges, possibly divided by the famous actions of a public enterprise. Now, what do they have to do with three percent? Now I'm going to tell you that they don't have, like, three percent of the value of a public enterprise and these shared actions, it's absolutely a mix of grandmothers and frogs. The value of the shares, Madam Minister, is individually less than the value of the spare tire on the official car of the public undertaking, unless you, under the influence of Mladjan Dinkic, have some other calculation in the public company's actions. Maybe something's changed. And you, because of such a miserable value, are shares of public enterprises that are divided into citizens, and you also limit judges to the basis for disfellowshipping judges to as much as three percent of the value of the total capital of the public enterprise. What if the judge has 2.9%, 2.8%, 2.5% of the value of the public enterprise. Look out, and the value of the public company's capital is fifty million. That's a million and a half. Do you think that every promiscuity below three percent makes you less interested, or less biased or fairer in the trial? I'm sorry, but this part of you had to be much more restrictive, this is three percent not good. Next, let's say something about witness hearing institutes and hearings. You predict that a witness can be heard through a video link, as well as through a optical recording device. Furthermore, you predict that hearings of litigation parties can be carried out through a conference link, i.e. using sound recording and optical recording devices. Why these hybrid solutions, where this takeover from some other procedural rules wherever something like this has been used so far, has been shown by practice so far, we also have fresh examples from The Hague Court and not just from there. It was not good, such solutions could only bring false witnesses, the possibility of influence on witnesses, the possibility of bribery and corruption, etc. Why are you introducing this into our procedural right? Furthermore, delivery of submissions by litigation parties to each other, I don't think it's something that would drastically improve the efficiency of the litigation process. The Institute of Reasonable Trials, which many have talked about today, is really not something to say that it is literally and most important or selectively applied. Why, for one, you've simply created an ambience in the past decade where marathon trials have become a rule, not an exception. For early reasons, they became a rule of reason that I don't want to go in now. The objective difficulty is that this is about diametrically conflicting interests. So, one is the interest of the debtor, especially if he is a big player, so he is in a litigation process, and the other is the interest of the trustee, so it will be very difficult to reconcile these two diametrically different interests, which will again affect that within a reasonable period of time the trial is done as you have imagined in the bill. So, in the end, we think that the bases that are set are not good. We find that the foundations that are set are not good. We believe that everything that is born with a hump can't correct neither the weather nor these cosmetic changes that you're trying to make with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59738	I give my word to the People's Parliament to the Faith of Radetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time Mrs. Snezana Malovic explains the government's proposals in this House, somehow there's an impression that there's a figure sitting in front of us from elementary school, everything reads nicely, the explanation that's been written here and leaves the impression that she really believes that's the case and she understands everything. And that's right, since the famous so-called. reforms in the judiciary. Mrs. Malovic, just as you advocate today, and as you advocated yesterday, with almost the same explanation, you convinced us three years ago, when you set up a new network of courts, new European laws, that there will be no longer long litigation, that it will drastically decrease, that we will achieve a level of efficiency, etc. What did we get in the meantime? All of what we, Mrs Malovic, have claimed since you introduced this catastrophic network of courts. I guess you're talking to the judges, people say there's no way they can reach the level they've had so far, let alone be more efficient, since they have a lot more cases than they've had before. Of course, logically, the number of cases didn't drop, the number of judges decreased, the number of courts decreased. Many small places don't have courts anymore, we don't go back to it, we talked about it, and citizens know the SRS' position on the subject and we know it's really very problematic, but it turns out it wasn't a problem in the network of courts, as it is now not a problem in the positive CAP, but it's a problem in the judges. There's a problem with the organisation of the judiciary. The problem is that you in the re-election of judges, Mrs. Malovic, the largest number of judges, not all, chose on the party line, and then we have courts, or judges who gained experience as directors of general affairs in kindergarten, directors of markets, without the intention of insulting colleagues who did these important jobs. You know, to be judges and to get into that whirlwind, so narrowed down, the number of judges, it's no wonder we're in this state today. So, even the existing CAP is not an obstacle to our judiciary being more effective and you have to agree with that, Mrs. Malovic, in fact, should. What is the essence and why we are also passing this law, and what was the result of this judicial reform? The reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, and you have written, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, are proposed to meet international obligations and comply with EU rules. Because of this harmonisation of the rules with EU rules, you have destroyed everything in the state of Serbia. Because of this harmonisation of regulations and today you have problems with a thousand judges, with which you do not know what you have not re-elected, who have complained until Strasbourg, have instructed your European friends that you have to solve this problem, you and Nata Mesarovic, for months you have promised until October, until March, until September, and here we are in this September, you have not yet solved this problem. Right? You're not, and you don't know when you'll be. The jackna hasn't died yet, and you don't know when she's gonna die. In the light of the bill's proposal, and since you've read the explanation, you've said a few interesting things and things you can't support, and we're going to draw your attention to bad examples that won't be corrected by this new law either. We, and now in this CAP, have the obligation of the courts to have working disputes or these new disputes, when it comes to abuse at work, settlement by emergency procedure. You know, Mrs. Malovic, that today you have disputes that last from three to six years and you also have knowledge, because it has been made public, that only one verdict has been made from the field of mobbing. So it's not about what's regulated or regulated by law, it's about how you generally regulate it. You've also regulated debt seekers, so now you're talking about the trustee and who's going to profit, the trustee or the debtor. I really don't know when a debtor could have profited this way. You say, among other things, you've boasted that you and your colleagues would vote for this bill, how you've achieved some epochal achievement in this way of delivery. First, it hasn't changed much compared to the delivery so far, but what you predicted in practice can prove to be very bad. Absolutely, there is not only a lawyer, but there is no man who will not say that the economy and efficiency of the trial are necessary within a reasonable time, but all this cannot be done at the expense of a fair trial and at the expense of parties in the process. You've explained here, and I'm going to hang it on the notice board if it's not delivered in writing, or someone won't receive it, or it can't be found at the address, and you think it's received. Imagine, in the litigation of marriages or litigation cases, the estates, two heirs were reported at the same address, and one would cheat on the other and he would every time the mailman or the court delivery officer came, that he would try to eskicipate and explain that the other is not living in that address or spouse, not yet formally divorced and registered at the same address. For some reason, one of them has reason to stall the reception and then only he'll know, only one will know when it's written on the ad board, and the other won't know. These are practical examples that can happen. You've got tenants here, someone's registered at some address, works morning to night, and now you're going to, in what way, make his boss tell him that someone from the court was coming to bring him someone in writing. Of course, that's not possible. We have a case, say by private lawsuit against Tomislav Nikolic, by Vojislav Seselj. Tomislav Nikolic lied a while ago that Vojislav Seselj had ordered his murder from The Hague tribunal, you all know that, as you know, it was found and confirmed that it was not true and now we are suing Tomislav Nikolic and your judge, Mrs Malovic, otherwise that judge is a close friend of Mr Cvian, and this Cvian is the one who left Tadic's office right at Vukic, the one who filmed Nata Mesarovic, and took the video from the conversation with Nata Mesarovic. A friend of that Cvian, he says, cannot give Tomislav Nikolic a call because his address is unknown. Is there anyone who doesn't know that Tomislav Nikolic is employed in the National Assembly and that he has one address here, certainly an address where a call can be delivered to him, but Cvian owns a part of the judge, and that's the problem, and it's not a problem with the ZPP, Mrs Malovic. The question that counterpart Krasic asked you yesterday when we talked about the CAP, did you foresee the application of this law in KIM territory and you nodded that it was. We ask you to say it loud and clear. How will the law on litigation apply in Kosovo and Metohija? Mrs. Malovic, I assume that at least from the media you know that they are protesting employees in the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija. They won't work under the Shiptar regulations, they won't work under the Shiptar command. Serbian Radical Party MPs and delegations will be with their Serbian people in the North of Kosovo and Metohija on Friday. There'll probably be judges and other employees in the judiciary. Will you, Mrs. Malovic, tell them something like a competent minister? What can they expect from their country of Serbia? Unfortunately, you have no answer quite sure, as your president does not have it either, as do those who negotiate on behalf of Serbia with the Shiptars and where they have led us. We tell Borko Stefanovic - you must neither admit customs nor stamp for a living head. He says it is in the interests of the Serbs. What happens Friday when the Shiplars come to customs? This morning, Minister Bogdanovic is as Kalimero – it is an injustice, and by the way he orders - you do whatever you want down there, we will condemn it and we will react peacefully to everything that you are preparing for us together with the EU. Rasim Ljajic confessed nicely – he will not do anything unless they get a moment from the United States. We know that, too. You should know who you are, unfortunately, currently in power in the Republic of Serbia. It's a bad law you've offered us. I suppose, Mrs. Malovic, this was a lapus. You said, under this law, that the court would be an arbitration officer. I'm just as shocked as a lawyer. I hope it was a lapus, you didn't mean it. I am also surprised that you have told us, among other things, that as a legal practice for the drafting of this bill, you have used the decision of the Constitutional Court of Austria. The Austrian Constitutional Court did not decide whether any law was in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? It's just amazing what you need and what it means to you. Of course, again your story of parallel legislation, of working group, judges, professors, lawyers, public debate, etc. It's all, Mrs. Malovic, a rotten grandmother. As Minister, you should be surrounded by experts as your closest associates, to come out here with your proposal, not some plagiars – Lilić, Gaše Knezevic and I don't know who we are, the MPs are qualified to discuss this and other topics and at this level is debated, neither the EU nor the quasi experts you boast here listen to are heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59740	I thank Mrs. Radetti. I give the word to the MP Alexander Martiniovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could say that this is a reform law, however, Ms. Malovic, as a graduate lawyer, you know that there is something in court that is called "a change in up". Many of the solutions contained in this bill are not a reform for better than for reform on top. My previous colleagues from the SRS who participated in the debate on this bill highlighted a part of the problems facing this proposed law. As far as I can understand, your top priority as a legislator of this law, I don't mean you personally, but as a government, is to speed up efficiency in the work of courts, and you think it can only be achieved by passing a new law on litigation. However, both Mr. Petar Jojic and Mrs. Vjerica Radeta explained to you that this standard and that priority cannot be achieved only by adopting a law on litigation because one good part of the problem in resolving disputes in the Republic of Serbia is not procedural legislation but by bad organisation of the judicial network to the Republic of Serbia, that is one problem. Another important problem is the fact that civil law in the Republic of Serbia is not codified but that civil law is being thrown out by various legal and sublaws. It is just amazing that at the beginning of the 21st century, the Republic of Serbia still lacks a civil code, and for example, it was owned by the Principality of Serbia, which was officially part of the Ottoman Empire back in 1844. All well-organised European countries, such as Austria, Germany and Switzerland, have since the 19th and 20th centuries passed their civil laws and in one place united the entire matter of civil material law - status law, property law, family law, inheritance law. We don't have it yet. As one example, it is enough to state only the Law on Fundamentals of Property Legal Relations, which was brought in the same year that former communist dictator Josip Broz Tito died in 1980. You don't change that, but that's why you're regularly changing the Law on litigation or the Code of Criminal Procedure, thinking it'll achieve the goal of who you're seeking, which is the efficiency of dispute resolution, but as you can see, social and legal practice is denying you. Since I don't have a lot of time, I'd like to start by elaborated on a few basic objections to this bill. First, from Article 1. We don't actually see what litigation is. Any good definition should be clear, concise and be from it at first sight to conclude what is the social phenomenon that is defined. Here's your definition: "This law regulates the rules of the procedure for granting judicial protection", I don't know if there is judicial outside legal protection, "which are handled and decided in litigation cases for the infringement of the rights of persons and disputes arising from family, employment, property and other civil relations, except for disputes for which another type of procedure is prescribed by special law". So, I don't know if there's any other legal protection, other than legal protection. Next, here you use one more or less coloroquial term – litigation. To what extent you haven't worked out this concept in some subsequent provisions of the law, here's what I'm going to show you. Therefore, Article 1 states that the case is synonym for the word "proceeding". So, litigation, it's a short term for litigation. However, if you take, say, Mrs Malovic, Article 436. The bill, that's chapter 29, says - a case in litigation from working relationships. This case isn't a synonym for procedure, it's a dispute. That's two completely different things. I ask you, is the case a dispute, or is the case in which the dispute is resolved? Therefore, it is impossible that the case is synonym, in particular in Article 436, for the procedure, because then it would have been – the procedure in the working relationship procedures. It's not logical, but in your case this 436th case is a synonym for the word "slow," and the case is very important in this bill. Here, as you can see, this important notion is not precisely defined enough and we don't know if the case is a case, or if the case is slow. Furthermore, to me it is not clear what this means to you, because of a violation of the right of a person. Well, a lot of personality rights are not protected in litigation, but in criminal proceedings, right to life, freedom, and some property rights, etc. They're not protected by litigation, they're protected by criminal proceedings. Let's pay a little attention to what you stated in the reasoning of the bill and not only in the explanation, but also in this normative part. It's just amazing that those who wrote the bill, it's not, of course, a grudge sent to you, Mrs. Malovic, but to the writers of this bill, that they don't know what the subject matter is. So, in a litigation, in a criminal case, every other legal procedure does not prove facts, but claims of facts. These claims can be true or false. The facts themselves are by definition true. So the fact is part of objective reality. What's part of objective reality doesn't prove itself. There is a claim as to whether it really is part of objective reality or not. Now, look at how funny it works in legal, linguistic, formal-logical terms of the sentence in Article 108. The bill, that's an explanation. It says – the proposed formulation obliges the court to take into account only the facts proposed by the parties. How can parties suggest facts? The parties may propose evidence, parties may make claims, but the parties cannot suggest facts, because it is simply neither logically nor physically possible. A colleague, Mirko Munjic, explained to you in detail that this provision, which refers to the fact that the judge cannot act in the case if the shareholder is more than 3% of the share of the total capital of the litigator party, is indeed a pointless provision and practically introduces the possibility of corruption on the Serbian judiciary at large, but since he explained it in detail, I will not do much of it. What is the problem with this bill, I said in the beginning, you want to speed up the litigation process and that is to a certain extent legitimate, provided that the speed of the proceedings does not question the rights of the parties and the legality of the functioning of the court. One of the newspapers in this bill is that the court should act within a reasonable period of time. This is some legal standard, which can be changed from case to case, but the essential newspaper is that the court, in agreement with the parties, determines, as you say, the time frame for taking certain procedural actions and for ending the litigation process itself. If you pay attention to chapter 15. The draft law disregards procedural discipline, whether sanctions are prescribed for a court that does not respect the time frames in carrying out litigation. No, Mrs. Malovic. Then this whole construction about speeding up the litigation process falls into the water, because what happens in case the court doesn't respect the time frames that he has defined himself? Nothing happens, there are no sanctions for that judge, there are no sanctions for any other participant in the proceedings if by their own actions or inaction they break those deadlines laid down in the procedure. In that sense, these time frames practically mean nothing. It is a general period of time during which some litigation is to be carried out, but if none of the participants in the proceedings, including the court itself, will suffer any sanctions and, in that sense, the trial within a reasonable period of time will remain a single wish, but in practice, there will be nothing. What, in my deep legal confidence, raises the individual rights of citizens and legal persons as a participant in the litigation process, is a solution from chapter 27. The bill, which is that the appeal in the disputes in which the verdict, which does not exceed 300 euros, i.e. 1,000 euros for legal persons, is that there is no suspension in such disputes. As far as I know, Mrs Malovic, in all legal proceedings both in criminal and litigation and in non-participatory and administrative and administrative proceedings, the appeal has a suspended fact, delaying the execution of the decision made in the procedure. However, you are now completely changing what has been a practice so far not only in the Republic of Serbia, but in all civilized countries, which is that the complaint always has a suspension fact. With this exception, you are practically questioning the rights of citizens. What happens if a person has made a complaint, the value of the case is 300 euros if it is a natural person or 1,000 euros if it is a legal person, the appeal does not have a suspended right and the verdict is carried out and is subsequently proved in the appeal procedure or by other legal Elks that the verdict is illegal? This creates an additional problem for the parties involved in the process, but you are also creating a problem for the court itself, which now solves a problem that has been objectively created because of a bad solution in this bill. What Mr. Dejan Mirovic said, that's quite true. What is in the subtext is, in the background of this acceleration of the litigation process, not the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia but the favouring of foreign banks in the Republic of Serbia that are to collect debts by loans taken by citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been deceived by these same banks and by all governments of the Republic of Serbia about 2000, so that it is very painless to take a loan, that it is not a problem, you go to the bank, you are in charge, you buy a new apartment, a car, etc. Now that thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in a difficult economic situation where they are in a situation where they cannot serve these debts to foreign banks, you have come to think of it, probably by order of these same banks, to speed up litigation procedures. That is actually the real reason why you are changing the litigation process, not because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not because of domestic businesses, but because of foreign bankers, because you want to secure their interests. Foreign banks, Mrs Malovic, are in a serious crisis throughout the EU. If you look at the latest developments in Greece, many French banks are threatening bankruptcy because they placed their loans in Greece. The Greeks become over-indebted, they can't pay back. In order not to do so in the Republic of Serbia, they overstepped you and said that you had to pass a new law on litigation, where the procedure will be accelerated, where it will not be sufficiently taken into account the legality of the procedure itself and the legitimate rights of citizens as participants in litigation proceedings, but where the litigation process will be carried out relatively quickly, that the foreign banks you protected in Article 13(2). The bill practically makes the collection of its claims. How else do you explain that to Article 13. The draft law obliges the judicial court to impose a judicial judgment, but you have fenced yourself in paragraph 2, says the judicial decision of the criminal court does not produce a legal fact in a litigation against a person who did not have the possibility or the right to participate in the criminal proceedings in which the decision was taken. Then, in the light of the bill, you stated that you wanted to protect insurance companies. What you didn't say was that you wanted to protect not only the insurance company, but foreign banks, because unfortunately since 2001 domestic banks have been destroyed, they no longer exist. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, businesses in the Republic of Serbia are practically left to the mercy of foreign bankers. We are here in the Serbian Parliament, I personally as an SRS MP showed you a paper that shows that in the United States one is being prosecuted for the crime of greening is the one that collects loans at the interest rates that are in force in the Republic of Serbia today. It is not possible there, Mrs. Malovic, to charge a citizen, a business entity, at 15, 18, 20, 25% interest rates. In the U.S., it's a felony. In the Republic of Serbia, it's a perfectly normal thing. These are the real legal standards that exist in this area, but you don't want those standards, because if you wanted some standards, Mrs. Malovic, at the beginning of the draft law on litigation, just as with the administrative procedure, you would have to specify the principles on which the litigation is based. Why does it matter? And because of the very litigation, or the litigation of a court, but also because of one situation, the Law on litigation is also subsidized in administrative disputes. When a court in a administrative dispute is to settle a procedural case which is not regulated by the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Law on the Prosecution is subsidized. The same situation can be met by a litigation court, and it does not know how to solve a particular procedural situation and then it is supported by principles, read the principles from the beginning of the bill and then solve the problem, applying the relevant procedural principles. It is just amazing that MPs of the ruling coalition are always talking about some principles of litigation that do not exist. We can only rule out the principles in the litigation of this bill, that we are about to illustrate what the draft law writer was going to say, but there is no tax and clearly defined principle of litigation. It's a very bad thing. If there are them in the Law on Administrative Procedure, it is completely unclear why these principles are not formulated in the Law on the Prosecution. I would like to hear, Mrs Malovic, will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do anything about this problem from the beginning of my presentation? This is – will it even be accessible to codification of civil material legislation? You have now included in the congregation procedure the Reimbursement and Return Act. how do you think you can implement this law in a situation where, believe it or not, in the Republic of Serbia, the law called the Law on the Irrelevant of Laws, passed before 6 April 1941 and during the enemy occupation? Under that law, it is, for example, particularly important for Vojvodina, for many of the assets seized is precisely on the territory of Vojvodina. For example, the system of land books is not regulated by some modern law but by the laws of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia from 1930-1931. A portion of the property in Vojvodina has been transferred from the land's book departments to the catastrophe, but it's only part of it. The other part is still in the land books. You'll have a situation to pass a law on the return of the seized property without having previously regulated something much more important, which is civil material legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59742	Mr. Martinovic, time. Thank you. Madam Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Please, just sign in. The word has a minister of justice, Mrs. Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59743	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to thank all the MPs who discussed the draft law on litigation. I want to remind you that it was a promise from the Ministry of Justice, when we started reforming the judiciary, when we said that in addition to the organisational changes that take place within the court, there would be a change of procedure. Yesterday you were witnesses when we discussed the Code of Criminal Procedure proposal, today for my great happiness, we also have a draft law on litigation. Also, I want to point out my satisfaction that, just these days, the law on enforcement and security, which I am sure will lead to disputes in Serbia, in the final outcome, being resolved much faster than has been resolved so far, which will contribute to Serbia's citizens coming faster to justice, and that, by doing so, we have fewer constitutional complaints, as well as performances before the European Court of Human Rights. The results of the reform in the judiciary that we have achieved so far are saying that we are on the right track, as there have been views raised here, that the number of cases in Serbia is significantly higher and that the efficiency of the courts has been significantly reduced. So that I don't speak my mind about it, I'll read you what the numbers are and what the facts that come from the results of the work. Compared to the basic courts, over the first six months of 2011, compared to the first six months of 2010, more than 120 cases were resolved, i.e. 23%. This would be the number, if compared to 643,064 cases that were solved in 2010 for the first six months, this year the number was 522 thousand more. For example, in the case was solved nearly 12,000 cases higher, the guilt was close to 6 thousand cases higher, and in execution based on a credible document was close to 60,000 cases higher, in execution on the basis of an executive document close to 13,000 cases higher. Inflow control is 104.11%, which is more than 24%, etc. This is all the data that's on the Justice Department's website, which you can get insights about. However, as I said, despite this information that speaks about the good work of the courts, the jurisdiction of our Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to give appropriate tools to courts for work. I am deeply convinced that this bill of litigation, when it comes into force, will be exactly the tool. The bill, as I said, was made by a working group, which was made up of distinguished professors of law school – Oliver Antić, Boiroga and others. We at the Justice Ministry are not a limited team, that anyone who can contribute to the improvement or efficiency, both the courts and all those activities we take, be parts, or make up the working groups that the Ministry of Justice proposes. I won't agree that there was no public debate, since that's the kind of attitude that's been expressed here. Yes, there was a public debate. There was a big round table that was organized during the summer. In addition, the work version of the law was on the website of the Justice Ministry. And not only the working version of the law, but what you can see for yourself now, there's a full transcript from a public debate where you can see who's represented what attitudes and who's what attitudes are. In addition to the Ministry of Justice's website, the working version of the law was also on the websites of the Bar Association, so that interested lawyers could also have insight into the design of the solution. As I said, the opinion of the Council of Europe has been obtained. In addition to the opinion of the Council of Europe, which we are always looking for on the laws produced by the Justice Ministry, the opinion of the International Co-operation Foundation has been added to this law, meaning the German International Co-operation Foundation. I will try to explain in short lines certain questions raised during today's debate. I believe that even in the day we discuss amendments, I may be able to explain more in detail all the concerns, or the criticisms that exist on this bill. This bill, as well as, which is now in force, which was adopted in 2004, follows the fact that it has given up on establishing material truth. I think it is something that represents modern-day liquids and what exists in EU countries, and not only the EU, but also the developed world, where it is the court that makes the decision between the two opposing sides, between the prosecutors and the defendant. We are no longer the country in which the dominant social property is and in which the self-government way is dominated, we are the country that has moved to the market economy, where the dominant contract and private property is. I think, as I said yesterday, in addition to the transition that was carried out in certain social aspects, it is also necessary to carry out it in court proceedings. I believe this law will be able to contribute to that. You are the witnesses of this, and it is pointed out today in the debate that we have tried to limit the duration of the proceedings. The bill provides that the second-degree procedure should not last longer than nine months. I agree with some MPs who say there are no sanctions for this, which are not provided for in this bill. But this should be seen in a broader aspect, in the fact that every part of the judiciary has been reformed, where there are now appeals courts that have the authority to control the work of low-level courts. Of course, in the results of the work, the judge will be an item that will refer to whether they respected or not the instructions. There have also been discussions about ways of predicting regular and extraordinary legal medicines. To my great pleasure, a request for the protection of legality has been lifted. That was the subject of thinking when I was defending the law here in 2009. I don't think the D.A.'s intervention is necessary anymore, or, if it's necessary for it to be reduced to the least possible measure. So where there's a need to protect the public interest. So she would disagree with the proposals that an emergency legal remedy relating to an emergency review of the verdict would also be extended to the protection of private interest, so that the prosecution could intervene in this respect and possibly delay the execution. There was also a proposal to grant a second-degree appeal, a complaint if there was a change of judgment by the High Court. I just can't agree with that, because I've already said that the entire organisation has been changed and that the appeals courts have the authority to control the low-level courts and they're certainly the ones invited to give their judgment on a certain dispute. I think the Supreme Casation Court in this bill is perceived exactly as it deserves. So he's supposed to be dealing with disputed legal issues where it's necessary, not in any case. Unfortunately, we have had the inflation of asking for the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court on every issue. I would not say that it was because the judges were not safe, but because, unfortunately, behind such an intervention, there was even a desire to delay the proceedings. There were also words about Article 13 of Section 2 of the Constitutional Court of Austria. Of course, Austria's Constitutional Court is not invited to decide on our regulations, but I have cited it in the context of the fact that such views exist in the context of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, and the source was just being made out of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Austria. I think as far as this Article is concerned, paragraph 2, which states that the criminal court's decision does not produce a legal fact in a litigation against a person who has not had the possibility or the right to participate in the criminal proceedings in which this decision has been taken, our intervention has not been adequately considered, perhaps we have not clearly written it enough, so I will certainly take a careful look at the amendments to this article. If they contribute to a clearer understanding of our intervention, they will be accepted. So it wasn't meant to be a factual situation, it was meant to be the amount of damage that was determined by the property-legal requirement. It was also agreed that, for example, insurance companies which did not participate in the criminal proceedings cannot be bound by the verdict of the Criminal Court or the part of the Criminal Court’s verdict relating to the property’s legal claim without being able to say anything during the criminal proceedings in that case. This is, on the other hand, a way to allow them to participate in a litigation procedure and challenge that part. Also, there were words about representation. Yesterday I said the Justice Department was preparing a law on free legal aid. It's something this country should have. In the end, the obligation stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that by the end of the year we will have a debate on this bill in this honored home. There were also words that lawyers in legal entities, according to this bill, could not represent in courts. It has also been brought out by several parties that amendments have been submitted. We'll consider those amendments. You know I've never had a problem adopting the amendment, not related to what side it comes from, if they contribute even better to the text of the law. I would not agree with the remarks concerning that the position of the citizens who are suing the state is worse. It is also clear in Article 193 paragraph 1 that if there is a sad state authority, before the debate is at all, that the court is obliged to consider a peaceful settlement of disputes. So, before filing a complaint, a motion for a peaceful settlement of disputes is submitted. I know there are amendments to this article that apply to the fact that there shouldn't be an asset censorship, and we're going to consider these amendments. Also, the question has been asked whether this bill respects the principles of international-private law and whether we are considering adopting a law on international-private law? Of course we're thinking. The existing law that is still being applied, from 1978, and that's one of the oldest laws to be applied still, certainly they're out of line, enough to say from which year they come from, but I believe we'll soon have a working version of that law. Also, I'm pleased to say that the Justice Department has prepared a property code. He's currently on board with the departments of power. We expect to submit a proposal to the government soon, and I hope we have Parliament's agenda and property code in October. It is not necessary to say how much it is necessary to amend the existing Law to the basis of property-legal relations, which has been in place since 1980. I'm very proud of the delivery provisions, not about how much criticism or commendation were made to the team. I think it was necessary to intervene in that area, because anyone who had a relationship with a court or anyone who had any knowledge of what was going on in a court of law knows that it was one of the ways to delay proceedings. Also, I have to say that in Article 140, the last position provides that handing over a letter to another person is not allowed unless it participates in a lawsuit as an opponent of the person to whom the delivery is carried out, so that it cannot happen that if you are a prosecutor and are sued that, if we talk about disputes such as divorces or arguing about the property of a spouse, the other party cannot accept your letter in the process. In the end, I want to point out that this law will contribute, as I said, to full security and to Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights and that it will contribute to both the trial within a reasonable period of time, and that it will help our citizens to come to justice faster. I am deeply convinced that this law will achieve something else, which is that we no longer have the expression that judges used to use in this country, that when they don't know how to act, they follow the law. I'm sure this law will contribute to judges acting primarily on the basis of the law, and then on the basis of their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-13-0.u59744	I thank Mrs. Minister. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the word of a representative or a president of a parliamentary group who has not yet used the right of Article 96 of our Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law on litigation. I'd like to inform you that we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I thank Mrs. Minister and her associates and all of you honourable MPs.
