ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, with the amendment, the SRS suggests that in Article 2, which explains what social protection is, after the word "self-sufficient" is put on the line and adds the word "safe". You have rejected this amendment with an illogical explanation that the amendment does not comply with the basic purpose of social protection. Since it is the basic provisions that define this matter, I believe that Article 2 should have said: "safe", especially as it is used in the next members of the bill, which I will explain to you. Article 55 refers to user accommodation at the shelter. I will quote this article: "I am placing in a shelter for the user to be provided and secured by security". Or, Article 56, which says: “Social protection services can be provided in the light of urgent interventions to ensure security... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” You have thus shown that this bill has a number of inconsistencies, legal gaps and inadequate or inadequate mechanisms of protection and guarantee of the rights of users. The SRS parliamentary group believes that the socially endangered face problems that social protection as an organised social activity of public interest must address within the objectives set. Such a commitment is desirable and necessary and therefore you should have accepted this amendment. Social protection should aim to ensure the safety of users, in the broadest sense, of this word. It is often threatened with safety and safety, especially the most sensitive social groups, such as children, women, sick people, people with disabilities and old people. Your security is not the basic purpose of this bill. And how do you plan to solve the problems of neglect, abuse or violence that you mention in this bill? Poverty, poverty and unemployment are increasingly common in Serbia, and therefore Serbian citizens feel very insecure, helpless and threatened. A large number of socially endangered citizens face a daily inefficient social protection system, which is becoming less and less eligible for their needs, thus guaranteeing a minimum of existential security. The security problem exists in open-air institutions, as well as in closed-type institutions. The guarantees of rights and freedom are largely insufficient, so the safety of the user is compromised. Regardless of the present differences, the common thread that is being observed are precisely systemic deficiencies, i.e. the inability of social protection to guarantee human security, both in open-label institutions and in closed-type institutions. I will only list some of the most important shortcomings that make the current situation still unacceptable from the aspect of human rights. The problem of security is particularly visible in childcare institutions without parental ageing and in institutions for children with special needs. Due to major discrepancies, and even the complete absence of communication between several ministries dealing with certain aspects of child and youth care, the primary objective, which is to provide the best interests of users, is often forgotten and lost in various administrative and bureaucratic procedures, uncorredified relations or personal and professional dissatisfactions. Institutions and institutions have a great obligation and responsibility to provide children without parental ageing or with special needs or behavioural disorders with all conditions for smooth development, with respect for their rights and freedoms. The existing practice often harshly ignores the interests of children. They don't get proper psychosocial and educational treatment. They remain deprived of adequate education, professional training or health care. Society and state support is insufficient, so their chances of equal participation in social life are very limited. And in open-label institutions, the largest number of users does not have any real possibility of freely choosing the way of life that suits them most. Serbia is a member of the Council of Europe, you know that. All countries are adequately promoting social protection and achieving goals, including ensuring the protection of citizens, especially vulnerable groups, but you from Europe only take what suits you. We believe that the law is inconclusive because the proposed solutions do not provide a reliable basis for defining precise and effective mechanisms for safe social protection. We advocate true democratic society, a society based on security and security and respect for human rights. We believe, Mr. Minister, that you should have heard more and accepted this amendment, so that this bill does not soon experience its changes and additions or, worse still, that this law, which is very important to the citizens of Serbia, does not remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52247	MP Zoran Popovic. Your amendment has, as you know, been adopted, this previous one. Thanks for the amendment. He became an integral part of the text of the law and is not being debated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52248	I have submitted an amendment that I have proposed to add in Article 2 which defines the concept and objectives of social protection the words "supply of assistance". It is good that the government has heard about the essence of the proposed amendment, but this amendment and this bill are only cosmetic changes that will essentially not change the difficult social situation in our country. From the current difficult social situation, it is even more dangerous that the situation in the Serbian economy generates an army of those who will need social assistance in the near future. The army of social aid candidates is estimated to be around 150,000 workers, in 61,000 businesses, who do not receive salaries and who do not pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. An example that only confirms ahead is the company "Livnica Ljig" in Ljig, a once-good and model company, which is now a self-willed individual in the image of the director and now co-owner of the company, Milutin Radisavljević called Šmit, brought to ruin. For three years workers have not been paid contributions to pension and disability insurance. This directly impactes the Republic of Serbia's budget, and unfortunate workers are unable to link work experience and as such become more and more serious candidates for social cases every day. But their torments here are not over. In June, July, August and September 2010, the directors received something that was not even social aid, worth 10,000 dinars, and now they are not receiving anything. These poor salaries are forced to pay for treatment and to buy medicines, because the boasting director and co-owner of the company do not pay any contributions to health insurance. This is a classic crime against Ljig workers. But everybody's quiet, including the state. This is just one of thousands of examples of mob privatisation. It's high time the state stopped protecting the tycoons and criminals on one side, and on the other hand, created an army of social cases from the workers. Do something for these and all other workers who are in the same position, so that not all become social cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52249	Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52250	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ljajic, within the framework of this amendment, Dr. Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, I must treat one issue that has upset the Kragujevac public, workers, disabled workers from Kragujevac, who have lost their jobs under the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, while creating a new factory and layoff. When the drama ended, on December 30th, last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia promised disabled workers to receive adequate seats and to be transferred to so-called. protection workshops, which have never been established, within the factory ‘Station of cars’. They're in a stalemate position today. The media with national frequencies and daily presses have been reporting these days. You know well, you have also been sent this memo, as a resolute minister, that 16 disabled works of the Kragujeva factory "Stat cars" did not accept the contractual transfer to the new company "Stava INPRO", because under a contract that stops their employment in the "Stava Cars" and the transition to "Stava INPRO" the new company does not guarantee everything they should have as protection based on disability and working relationship. What's this about? That's what I have to say for Serbia's public, and I repeat, the media has written about it. Workers said the hunger strike would begin in front of the car factory or in front of the Kragujevac City Assembly. The mayor of Kragujevac, as well as his deputy, who was one of those who guaranteed the signing of the memorandum and a new contract with the flag, was also familiar with that. By switching to the flag of INPRO, they do not have the opportunity to achieve what belongs to them under the law, which is an rent of about 10,000 dinars, which, you must admit, is a very large amount nowadays for the existence of such people, as well as all other rights acquired under their disability belong to them under the Labour Act. To make the irony bigger, Mr. Ljajic, those who had to be under great pressure to sign such an unconditional contract, with major damages that they received at work, for years working at the Zastava autos factory, the director of the company "Stava INPRO" Mr. Veljovic has arranged to work on jobs that are for healthy workers. So people who unfortunately don't have a few fingers on their hands or have severe injuries to their hands, shoulders, etc., whose motor functions are no longer what they used to be, and who were injured in a former car factory that produced a domestic program, in the company "Stava INPRO" are now forced to work on the press, which is one of the most difficult jobs. Please, as a People's MP from Kragujevac and as a councilman of the City Assembly, for the sake of the Serbian Radical Party, because they spoke to us several times, we talked to them, so that no, God forbid a tragic outcome would happen, so that people would not sacrifice their health and so sick and sick because of the country's lack of care went on strike or did something else, I ask you to do everything, because the law is on their side, to provide them (it is 16 people with disabilities) that their rights are respected and that by moving into this new enterprise they get everything that belongs to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52251	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52252	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we read this law, we saw that you, Mr. Minister, do not distinguish two concepts, do not distinguish the concept of need and concept of justice. The concept of need is a slightly lower category than the concept of law. When we saw the answer about not accepting this amendment, we realized that you two still don't know the difference. As a state, we have signed conventions, international conventions that speak of human rights, not needs, and that is the essence of what we disagree on. So, Mr. Minister, the rights are not charity, they're something guaranteed by international conventions. This social rights law cannot be interpreted as being your own to give out of your pocket and out of the ruling coalition's pocket to meet some basic needs. These are the rights acquired and guaranteed by international conventions. It's really amazing that you don't distinguish these two basic concepts, but you're talking about needs. Do you know what needs are? This is about rights. I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52253	Thank you. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52254	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I'm just going to apologize for a lapus I made on Thursday, and I don't want to stay on it, so I'm going to move on to this amendment that we signed. Namely, when we talked on Thursday about that point of Serbia-BiH co-operation in the veterinary field, I made a lapus in the part where I talked about smuggled meat from Brazil, so I accidentally mentioned "Goldiborac", instead of "Goldibor". I just don't want it to go unexplained, because I saw it in the stenogram later that I said it. I will now return to this amendment. In Article 3, which speaks of the objectives of social protection, in point 4 you have stated: “Preserve and improve family relations, as well as improve family and intergenerational solidarity. ” This is what we wanted to correct our amendment: "4) help to preserve and improve family relations, as well as improve family and intergenerational solidarity". At first glance, this looks like a language intervention, one language view that we're responding to, that anyone can help a third person in something, in preserving and improving family relationships. It's not controversial, but when you think about it a little bit, there's a difference between two concepts, a concept that you're offering as a proposing, which is that the social service has a proactive role in preserving and improving family relations. I don't think that's right, 'cause you can be the helper. We believe our concept is that the user is the one who needs to be proactive, and the service needs to help him do it. It is later seen in a series of members and in what we have written as amendments to differ in this. We believe that the social services must only play a role as a helper, and it does not protect family relations and promote them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52255	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Mr. Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has tabled this amendment, which in principle would not be affected by what you said in an explanation when you rejected this amendment. Hand to heart, the minister made an effort to accept a lot of amendments. Among them is one New Serbia. But I don't see any reason why this amendment isn't accepted, because it would only specify a particular situation and certainly wouldn't get in the way of this explanation, as I've already said, but would just specify the law and essentially fix it. In your explanation, you gave us an explanation that is completely flat-rate, because you said that the provisions of Article 3(1) of the Law as the aim of social protection are to define the preservation and improvement of family relations, as well as the improvement of family and intergenerational solidarity. "The improvement of family and intergenerational solidarity in the context of social protection implies, above all, mutual understanding, concern and support of family members. Hence, gender solidarity could not fall below that objective. “ What was New Serbia doing here? We asked that in Article 3 paragraph 1 point 4) after the word “family”, we do not get into it, the word “born. ” Our explanation is – the termological precision in this article requires that the word “born” be introduced into the law. Birth equality is very important when it comes to regulation in the area of social protection. Mr. Minister, I don't see any reason the law couldn't stand in this precise way that we thought we could fix the law. Essentially, it would not affect what you have already stated in the explanation, only, as I said, to specify one situation and to practically correct the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52257	The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52258	Let me just say that we accept this amendment. Although this formulation, according to us, also contained a term of gender solidarity, it sets out the text more precisely, so we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52259	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52260	We thank Mr. Minister who, unlike many ministers, still responds to opposition remarks when something is good. We thank you for accepting in this way the amendment that the government had previously rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52261	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 4th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52262	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a story that continues after that first amendment to Article 3, which we have submitted as a parliamentary group. I simply must appeal that Serbia has ratified strong conventions and that we must talk about human rights because it is something that we have committed to as a state, to permanently provide the citizens of Serbia with human rights that we have signed the Convention. That's why I think identifying needs is a slightly lower category, and that's why I'd like us to stay at the level of human rights and that's what the law says. This is about the human right to social protection. We're signatories to this convention. I don't think that's controversial, and that's what should be in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52263	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 7, reads: “The institutions and other forms of organization established by law that carry out their work or provide social protection services cooperate with institutions of pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education, health institutions... “ etc. I suggested adding to this list the institutions involved in humanitarian work, humanitarian institutions. I find it a little illogical that among the institutions with which social work centres have to co-operate are not these humanitarian institutions, so before social protection is, on its basis, one humane, humanitarian activity. The government didn't explain why she didn't accept this solution, although she couldn't even give a logical explanation. Article 7 further states that social protection institutions are obliged to co-operate with, quote, " associations and other natural and legal persons". I have suggested that this solution is recasted and said to be more precise – they work together with associations and organisations dealing with social protection, humanitarian work and human rights protection. The government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: "The concept of the association contains all the forms listed in the amendment. “ That is the problem, for that very reason I have submitted this amendment. Namely, on the website of the Agency for Business Registers, on 22 March 2011, which is yesterday, it says there are 7,896 associations in Serbia. If the amendment is not accepted, social work centres and other social protection institutions will have an obligation to co-operate with nearly 8,000 associations. How absurd this is is seen from the following information, that among associations in Serbia there is also the Association of Beer Fans, the Association of Lovers of Good Drops and the Pamela Anderson Fans Club. Under this law, social work centres have an obligation to co-operate with these associations and clubs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52265	National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52266	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 8, reads: “It is everyone's duty to take care to meet their basic needs and basic needs of the person who is obliged to support, as well as to actively participate in the assessment, planning and realization of social protection services in accordance with this law. As part of its ability, each person, through his work, income and property, is obliged to prevent, eliminate or mitigate his own social isolation, as well as the social isolation of members of his family. “ We don’t think this article belongs in this law. At the level of the finding, it is quite fine, but obliging people who have lost their jobs – 400,000 people in the term of this government are out of a job – blaming them for losing their jobs, still making them obliged to take care of themselves in such a situation in which they find themselves really not at the level of the joke. The law simply speaks of people who need the help of the state. So the law must bear in mind that indeed there are a large number of people in this country who need the help of the state. They're not to blame for the situation they've been in. Let's see one example. What should we say about the number of children found themselves in a position of great poverty because their families and their parents were out of work? The state is obliged to take care of them. My proposal, Mr. Minister, is that you accept this amendment because I think the state is showing this member its right face towards the users and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52267	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52268	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, we really don't think that this member should stand in law for all those reasons my colleague, Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic, stated. So I can't be a citizen responsible for my poor economic and social status, especially because the state put them in this situation. What does it mean that every citizen is responsible? What do 400,000 people who have lost their jobs do? These people have families, they have children of their own. How can they care about their social status when the state put them in this situation? On the other hand, when we talk about these things, will something change after this famous government reconstruction? Well, they won't, Mr. Minister. There will still be wastefulness on some other sides. For these categories of people who have brought into this situation, the state is neither concerned nor willing to take any responsibility or concern at all, but it shifts all responsibility to them who are still miserable, poored and living in complete hopelessness. It really isn't the place of one of these members in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52269	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52270	We provided for this member to change attitude 1 and to read: "Social protection institutions are set up to assist the state, autonomous province, local self-government and other legal and physical persons, in order to exercise the rights of citizens". The further text remains exactly the same. We suggest that you adopt this amendment because it defines this matter more precisely and eliminates the inaccuracies caused by some poor translation that you have offered us in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52271	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52272	Madam President, Mr Minister, Article 13 reads: "The rights, obligations and responsibilities of employees in social protection institutions are subject to general labour regulations, if this law is not otherwise laid down". We have deleted this second part of the sentence: “If this law is not different. ” We think that if there is a Labour Act and general labour regulations, no other regulation you make can be in conflict with those regulations. I don't think this part of the sentence needs to be entered here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52273	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Mrs. Plecevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment requires the removal of the position of the 3rd member. The position envisions the possibility of setting up a social work centre for several local self-government. This may seem a rational solution at first sight, however, in the SRS we propose to delete this attitude because we believe that every local self-government must have a social work centre on its territory because of the more efficient use of services by those who need it. This is what we propose for because we have a very difficult economic situation and that the availability of services would be more difficult for our users, and therefore even more unbalanced. They would have to go to other municipalities, which are more or less distant from their place of residence, in order, for example, to raise one-time assistance, which accumulates the process of achieving social assistance. How will those who are weakly mobile or immobilized be able to achieve social protection in other territories? This is set up as a problem especially in municipalities outside large cities and municipalities that are diverged, each other 50, 100 or more kilometers away. Would, for example, according to a portion of food from the soup kitchen, their users daily go to neighboring municipalities or would the establishment of folk cuisines in economic crises depend on benefactors, so that the state would ratify these concerns? We can't expect those who have spent the most time in the past, which has led to an ever-increasing social breakdown, to become benefactors and public cuisine financiers. It's the primary duty of the state. Why do I only mention the work of folk cuisine? Because it is the only activity in Serbia that is on the rise and that many have only that kind of social assistance.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52275	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52276	Since there have been a lot of words and objections to MPs in the principle debate, I would just like to say why we cannot accept this amendment. In fact, we're just standardizing the actual state we have, and we still have three inter-municipal centres for social work. There used to be a lot more of them, but we opened up the possibility... Surely you are right that services should be made available to users. If opportunities are created, these three inter-municipal centres will be separated and social work centres will be formed in each municipality. But given that there are some financial obligations of these municipalities, they are currently unable to stand alone. Certainly, the intensity is that we get in every community center for social work, without inter-municipal, regional centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52277	National MP Maria Bulgarcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52278	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party spoke on several occasions about the need to pass this law. I'm not going to talk about the need to pass this law, I'm going to talk about the problems that arise from this law. I see in the law too much responsibility put on social work centres. Regardless of clearly defined jobs in the social work centre, which are defined by law, people from the social work centre cannot respond to all the needs of users who come daily with various requirements. Centres for Social Work have become places where people come every day for a variety of information and ask social workers' centres to solve a variety of issues. In small areas, such as my municipality, the Municipality of Luciani, at the Centre for Social Work, where mainly rural areas are gravity and are mainly users of the Centre for Social Labour of People from the rural areas, daily workers of the Centre for Social Work come and enable users of various services. What is asked as a question is this: will these people, the perpetrators of the centres, which are very few, be able to answer all the questions of users, who are more and more daily and come to an increasing number? There are over 1,500 users of various kinds of assistance in the municipality, and there are only six perpetrators in the centre. I would ask if it is possible for such a small number of people to respond to all the needs that are daily relevant to the lives of every citizen in them? Also, fewer local self-governments are unable to finance forms of assistance from the so-called so-called. extended rights, these are folk cuisines, extra-institutional care and other things, and the law of Article 111 states that the proposer can, and is not required, so he does not have to, open a soup kitchen and provide funds for folk cuisines and other types of extra-institutional care. I would suggest to the government and the resolution minister that they still have to find a way to help the socially endangered population, which they have more and more every day, and that every municipality where it is necessary enables increased transfers for social giving. We also talked a lot about the activation of users and about the office for material donations within the Social Labour Centre. There is a question of the possibility of developing individual activation plans at the level of the office for material giving, because however, these types of plans include continuous monitoring, evaluation of the tasks achieved, and again we come up with the same problem – the lack of professional staff in these social work centres. It is unnecessary to repeat that the sum of just over six thousand dinars is very small for social contributions. It's a ridiculous sum, by the way. I would ask the minister – is it possible for someone to feed their family, pay their dues, and all that? The bottom line is that there are no, especially in the smaller environments, opening new jobs, that people are left out of work every day, that the crisis has not bypassed us, but has affected all the layers of society, and has the highest impact on the socially most vulnerable layers of the population. Also, that Article 217 paragraph 2 is inseparable. How do I understand this position at all, if the institution's budget makes it impossible to implement a specific training programme, especially when I know that local self-governments are not very sensitive to the allocations for professional training, considering that the costs of training should be borne by each institution alone (or by individual) in particular. Minister, I'd like to give you an example from Nis a few days ago, when 55 sociologists were sent for retraining. They have requalified themselves as social workers, and we know that the social worker is a deficiting interest in Serbia. And, of course, they didn't get, when they did all that, confirmation from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that they could deal with that problem. What's going to happen to those 55 guys from Nis? Also, when drawing up a project documentation for a specific type of programme where the institution is competing, local self-government's opinion on the justification of the project is most often needed. On many occasions, we have little understanding of local powermakers and local leaders of local self-government due to misjudged priorities, political will and various other interests. Many times we from the Liberal Democratic Party have talked about the necessity of depolitisation and departisation of public enterprises. I would like to point out in particular that it is necessary to depolitize and departize social work centres, where mainly directors are elected by political functions, and to enable the small number of performers in the social work centres as much autonomy as possible and as much work as possible for the benefit of all Serbian users and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52279	I would like to thank Miss Bulgarian. Mr. Secretary has a word, and so does the Verica Radeta, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52280	You are, of course, absolutely right when you talk about the deficit in the professional staff, when it comes to social work centres. The number of perpetrators is often not enough for regular activities of the social work centre. We lack 102 professionals in all of Serbia's social work centres, but unfortunately, because of these financial constraints and restrictions in the number of employees, we are not able to employ the necessary 102 professional workers in all social work centres. It is also true that some units of local self-government do not have enough financial resources for some services in the area of extended rights. It was precisely the reason that we introduced into the law a provision on dedicated financial transfers, so that 75% of municipalities could use these funds, because just as many municipalities can't develop all these services that are needed to reform social protection throughout the country in the same way. As for the amount, we discussed it in principle, we agree that they are not large, that they are insufficient, but I would like to remind you that by now that range has ranged from a minimum of six thousand dinars for an individual to fourteen thousand dinars for a five-member and a multi-member household. Under the new law, the range is now between six thousand and fifty dinars per individual, up to 21,000 dinars. You will agree that this is not about a small increase, given the country's real financial and economic potential at the moment. As for this social worker problem, their retraining, the Ministry did everything it could. In the end, that's what the Ombudsman found out. At this point, we're waiting for the Ministry of Education's position, to hear if the entire procedure is respected, and if it's possible for someone to be requalified in a year and get a degree in social worker. If the Ministry of Education says the whole procedure is done, we'll respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52281	The Belief of Radeta, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52282	You, Mr. Minister, are well-known for being a minister who is great at spotting problems within the area of his ministry and, on many occasions, we have turned your attention to this, when you appear in the media, people are not sure whether you are an opposition or a government. And yet we continue to draw attention to you that you are not the minister of misstatement. It is good for you as party president, but as minister you must find solutions to offer solutions. It is not an answer that you cannot accept the amendment of colleague Dušanka Plecevic because you are legalizing the existing situation. You know, yesterday your colleague Oliver Dulic, I apologize for this depression, refused to accept some amendments where he should have come to terms with the legalization of the existing situation, which is perfectly logical. He rejected it with some explanation, because the law is not passed to legalize the situation, he says. And you're passing the law to legalize something that's not good. So, you had to create a legal basis, accept this amendment, and then, within the framework of the government, fight for these funds. If you can't do it this year, it needs to stay in the law and be regulated legally. When it's legally regulated that every local self-government has a social work centre, that it has to, then some future government will have to realize what's written in the law. Well, you don't think that one day when the money is paid for it just because we're changing the law and spending five hours again to discuss the bill where there's only going to be an amendment to this member of the law? So, we strongly suggest that you accept the amendment, take the obligation, and when the conditions are created, then you can certainly realize it. We don't know, neither in the principle debate nor today, you haven't told us what parts of Serbia where we can't achieve that possibility that every local self-government has a social work centre. We're assuming it's especially poor municipalities. If they are poor municipalities, then there are greater needs for the functioning of the social work centre. How do you think and what is the practical situation, because you are talking about the state of play, how did the competent authorities of these units of local self-government agree on the rights and obligations of the founders of this joint centre? Who's in charge here and who's in charge? There's got to be a relationship. I have to do it again. Because this is also talking about how the government works. We had a similar story when a network of courts was made, and then the minister of justice determined where the court seat should be and where it should not be. And day and day, we have terrible consequences, and everything we've talked about is happening as a problem on the ground today. What my colleague Plecevic mentioned as a problem may seem literally, if someone from one place is going to go to another place in the folk kitchen. It probably won't, but it'll go to another place, within the three. We don't know which municipalities it's about. Who's going to be in charge? That someone has to pay for the bus ticket, from one place to another to go and get that church she gets from the welfare center, and by the time she goes back and goes, she needs to spend one third of what she gets as help. So you must have the courage, Minister, to accept this amendment and to commit to the government in which you, or any future, are to solve this problem. Then we'll accept that you're really making sure not only that it sounds nice what you're saying, but that you really do something. Here's another constructive proposal, Minister: consult with your colleague Minister Milan Markovic, because you said you had a problem and you don't have enough employees at social work centres, 102 employees are missing, I don't know what the profile is, but it doesn't matter. We propose a concrete solution: a law has been adopted in this Parliament that provided for employees of local self-government to be fired as excess employees. Can't you establish such communication and transfer those who are excess in local self-government, a certain professional profile, with some requalification, to social work centres? They are still in local self-government, still peopleally said, "more" as some excess and fear when they will be fired. So, the budget funds for their salaries are provided; you're well-charged by local self-government and, in agreement with the Minister for State Administration and local self-government, transfer these people to social work centres. Which would say, both wolf sieve and sheep in number: therefore, you have a sufficient number of employees, so there are no problems in the functioning of the center for social work; local self-government no longer has problems with excess employees, funds from the budget already allocated, these people continue to receive wages, and they are satisfied. So, Minister, you need to accept the constructive proposals of the SRS MPs and see how the more beautiful and better works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52283	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52284	First of all, I want to say that this isn't about whether anyone has the courage or not, but whether all units of local self-government have the means or not. I said we have three inter-municipal regional centres for social work: one based in Kosovo Mitrovica, which belongs to neighbouring municipalities, the other in Ranilug, with neighbouring enclaves, and the third center is a joint centre for social work Vlasotince - Crna Trava. In 95% of cases, funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Local self-government units provide 5% of the resources. You can't expect Black Grass to provide even that 5% of the funds. We want to have a social work center in the smallest municipality. Where we don't have centers, we have outposts of these regional centers, so someone from Black Grass doesn't have to go to Vlasotince for a favor, but through a facility that exists in Black Grass, that right can come true. As soon as the conditions are met, these three inter-municipal regional centres will also be abolished. Therefore, there is no ban on every unit of local self-government opening a social labour centre, just waiting for assumptions, the elemental assumptions that units provide the minimum funds for their functioning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52285	National MP Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52286	Mr. Minister, I wanted to thank you for the answer you gave me, and I hope there is a clear plan and dynamic of everything you've told us so far. Honestly, I want this to be more than just a list of good wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52287	MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52288	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listen carefully to the debate and the ministers' extraordinary efforts to do something, which is also shown in the media, in all his performances, to go towards improving the situation in Serbia and to address the social issue as best as possible. However, the government as a government has major problems. These problems are going to get more and more this year. I'm not sure you'll succeed, Mr. Minister, that from what you've drawn up anything, if we notice that at this moment in Serbia, 100,000 firms are in bankruptcy, that 97,000 companies have already finished this phase and gone into bankruptcy 100%, that more than 300,000 people will be out of work, that the less real budget will be charged due to the huge unemployment and the big problems that have arisen in the country's economy and that you will have less and less resources from real resources to solve these problems, and the more problems will be. More and more people will be out of work, and you will have more and more demands for some kind of social assistance. So, I understand. You are making extraordinary efforts as minister to share the little poverty, but there will be no more opportunities to share it and there will be no budget funds for such activities. Because as it goes, you can see how many companies are going bankrupt and how many problems there are. It could have been a different situation that your colleagues in the government were doing their job much better and more responsible. Let's just take -- today we have a visit to Putin, the president of the Russian government -- we have at our disposal eight hundred million euros from the Russian government for certain projects, to employ people, to start certain jobs and to get these jobs done. With the impunity of certain ministers, their services and competent ministries, these projects have not even begun because there was no project documentation. The funds are set aside for the reconstruction of railways, railways Belgrade-Bar, Prokopa etc. These are huge investments that thousands of people can employ. But the projects weren't done, they weren't completed, and we couldn't withdraw those funds, and we didn't invest in the part we were supposed to invest in. I was at that meeting in Moscow when it was agreed. I was a minister back then. We haven't met any agreed obligations, so we haven't withdrawn funds, and there's no real budget charge. When you look at today how many economic gaps are in the country and how much money is invested, and there are no effects – just take the "Fiyat" project, how much money is invested, and how much budget funding is foreseen, but there is no new employment, new jobs, new revenues and real budget filling. Therefore, your ministry will be in big trouble. The more you will need to use these funds, as a form of social assistance, and the less you will have funds in the budget. You know that budgets and budget commitments are now met from credit lines maximum. I can't understand this government, that it shut down the biggest project that was agreed and that was ten or fifteen days before the realisation, which is the Horgos-Pozega highway concession project. That's billions of euros. I can't understand that we now have a few billion undrawn funds for certain projects that stand and loans that the government is funding, and the works can't start because no project documentation has been done. When I listen to Minister Dulic, who's talking about speeding up the construction process, etc., and in fact he's totally stiffed and stopped it, I'm extremely disappointed. So I ask you to start this issue at the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Do you know how many loans we have from the World Bank, from the European Development Bank that are being serviced and the funds are not being used because a certain process has simply been stopped? Imagine how much resources we have just to drown objects, or energy efficiency, where the World Bank has determined the funds that are the cheapest credit lines. It's an extraordinary project. The project in every major city in Serbia can employ between two and three thousand people... I would ask the gentleman to calm down, not to walk around in the hall and rally, to respect his minister, Mr Milivojevic. If possible, to calm down a little and not to make a circus out of parliament and to respect the communication of a MP with a government representative in a discussion he's having, not to tell now some other stories that aren't on the agenda. Therefore, Mr. Minister, as one of the ministers of this government who is now, of course, reconstructed and expected some positive effects, you should also help call your colleagues why they are holding down certain jobs; why the job has lost more than 400,000 people in companies that have failed in poor privatisation or through bankruptcy proceedings. The bankruptcy law is extremely unfavourable for our businessmen. This morning, it was at the Public Service – your businessmen from Novi Pazar, this morning there was a contribution, three companies moved to China. The owners say that technically they can't function anymore, they can't withstand the duties imposed and that's why companies go bankrupt and that's why they're shutting down. It's about three prominent New Market businessmen. Not to list the rest of the conflict, from all over Serbia, crossing to China, crossing to Republika Srpska, crossing to other countries because they say that taxes are more than 70% and there are benefits below 30% of obligations. So, with the extraordinary obligations imposed on those who do, we're totally choking them. Now we have a growing tax on businesses and employees, and a growing amount of funding in the budget, because it can no longer be supported. So now we've crossed that optimal line, and we're just having an extremely difficult problem in the country. That's the case with gas excises. Your government, which you're sitting in, and the previous finance minister thought we'd fill the budget through gas excises. The excises grew, grew, and consumption decreased, so now the effects of collecting excise funds are smaller than when the excises didn't grow. So the people spend less fuel so much... The more it grows, the less it spends. You have negative effects and negative budgeting. This is how we come into a difficult situation for credit lines, or commercial loans, to meet the country's commitments to budget users. You know very well that in the first two months, a billion and two hundred million credit lines have been raised on a variety of basis, which have patched up budget commitments, which are of sorts. It is impossible for a country like Serbia to endure it. Every day we come into a difficult situation. Therefore, I note, no matter what the law changes and your obligations to users increase, you increase resources, we have negative effects. There is less and less money in the budget, and there will be fewer with this kind of organisation of economy and commitment to businesses, especially agriculture, which is in big trouble. Imagine that a village host comes into town and becomes a city poor woman, because the village cannot survive, but finds salvation by coming to town. So last year, 2010, 50,000 Serbian citizens moved to Belgrade! Fifty thousand people came to Belgrade, have no jobs, have no opportunities, become city poverty. Of course, the impact on your ministry is going to be bigger and bigger, your obligations are getting bigger and bigger, and your options are getting smaller and smaller. Therefore, this is a major problem of the state. I believe that the economy is the basis of everything and that in this House we need to discuss seriously. It's very difficult for me that this subject never comes to order and no one has time to deal with it. We haven't seen the Minister of Economy here in years to come out, to refer, to report to the Assembly where this government is run economically by this state. It all starts with the economy. No economic development, no economic indicators... Economic laws are ruthless. You can cover, hide, falsify, display falsely, but it's short, it can't last long. This country is getting into a lot of trouble. That's why we said that this government couldn't do anything more important, because it had no power to find solutions to economic problems, and especially to macroeconomic state-leading, to finance certain projects, to hire, to increase exports. That's why there's got to be elections. We expected that there would be a man here who would lead the Ministry of Economy one new route, who would come up with a serious project; we expected a serious economic project from the prime minister. We've got a secretary of state from the former ministry who's been promoted to the minister and everything else is as good as it used to be. Therefore, I ask you to do, as much as you can in the government, to solve these problems, so that you may have fewer problems at the Ministry, because it's all connected. The more difficult the economic situation in the country is, the more trouble you have. We can have hundreds of social workers in every municipality, but they won't have anything to share because the municipalities don't have dinars either. The government allowed the property tax to increase 60%, while the billing rate decreased 70%. You might even increase 300 percent. I hear from Bajatovic that he says the gas will have to collect again. Now the power will pick up. All of this pulls one chain and brings the citizens to a difficult situation. You will be powerless, completely blocked and the government will not be able to help you in that case of yours. Here, I wanted to draw your attention and ask you to intervene through the government to get these processes started, if I may. If they can't, they're looking for new solutions. It is no big deal that there are new elections if people are unable to do so, and that through a new organisation, Serbia is being launched, that these projects that are waiting for, for which the funds are provided, are being speeded up, because they are thousands of new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52289	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52290	Mr. Minister, you have not convinced us that you have a valid reason why you have not accepted our amendment. You said yourself that it's not true that we assume someone has to go somewhere else to get the right they get through the social labour center. You're saying that even in municipalities where intermunicipal centres are located in every municipality headquarters, there's a social labour center. If there's an outpost, it means there's a room, there's someone out there who's busy and there's no reason not to be the right center for social work. It's a good thing you told us which municipalities this applies to, because you didn't tell us what the centers are before, which municipalities don't have social work centers. What makes us insist that you accept our amendment, and expect your understanding, is the fact that, apart from Vlasotinac and Crna Trava, you treat the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica and Ranilug and the towns of the municipalities around these municipalities differently than other municipalities in Serbia. So let's at least by this law not to accept what is unfortunately present in this regime and in the government, which is a silent step by step, recognition of Kosovo's independence. Don't raise your hands from Kosovo and Metohija. You should do everything as government, as a regime, to make life easier for people in Kosovo and Metohija as much as possible. Do not let all municipalities in the rest of Serbia have centres for social work, and you have no money for every municipality in Kosovo and Metohija to have a social work centre. It is in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, that the need for the existence of services provided by social work centres is particularly expressed. So you won't spoil the law, Minister, if you accept our amendment; it will remain a commitment. In an explanation of why you do not accept the amendment, you wrote: "The formation of inter-municipal centres for social work is not an obligation, but a possibility". Let's once start making laws that don't leave opportunities, but that really do. That's the essence of standardizing an area, that's the essence of law-making. Wherever we had in law the intended possibility, it was always abused. Remember the Labour Act, which you represented here – you have not yet made the changes you have promised. Wherever you leave a possibility, there is a possibility of abuse. Give precise, concise and clear legal standards. Say, "It is, or – it is not, and it is not – there is a possibility. So, you won't spoil the actual state, you won't spoil the law. On the contrary, you will improve the law, and you will force your colleagues in the government to help you overcome your current state by matching it with the law. Once again we propose and insist that you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52291	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to let you know that we're gonna have a break from 14.45 to 17.00 today. At 5 p.m., we'll only continue with this agenda until the end of the day, so I'll also inform you that it can happen a few minutes after 6:00 p.m. We expect Prime Minister Putin to be at the House of National Assembly in 1545 hours. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52292	The President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, an interesting debate has taken place over this amendment, and perhaps it's an opportunity to say a few more things. I'm glad you finally said what municipalities, or three pairs of municipalities, so to speak, where there is this inter-municipal integration, are two in Kosovo. I cannot agree, although in principle I understand what Mrs Radeta was talking about; I would say that, in practice, because of the maintenance of this provision that is related to Kosovo, the rest of Serbia, more than 160 municipalities, is being brought into a situation that could potentially be dangerous. You said it wasn't mandatory for other municipalities to connect through some kind of, old dictionary to say, inter-municipal co-operation in social work centres or in joint centres for social work, but that will inevitably happen. It's not Black Grass or any other municipalities you've mentioned to us, the only ones in a bad situation. If you allow such an option through the law and do not worry about a whole series of other things, from how through these statistical regions Serbia is divided, about this always important circumstances of political power-sharing, that is, coalitions that hold power in certain municipalities, possibilities to connect some municipalities to common centres for social work, then such a situation will likely arise in a whole series of municipalities. You don't have to recognise Kosovo's independence, of course, but you can't either because you constantly resent this danger or this accusation, so someone will accuse you of indirectly recognising Kosovo's independence, bringing 150 and some municipalities in Serbia into a potentially difficult position. After all, these days we are watching how much money is constantly going to Kosovo, for four or six municipalities in Kosovo, you can provide money in a direct way, and the problem of resolving your current situation could be overcome through several provisions in transitional and final provisions. Practically, it's an existing, practical state of mind, in some way, that you can preserve it, that you bind it to a certain deadline. I'd like to go back to what my colleague, the Bulgarian girl, was talking about. Regardless of what she understands and quite politely thanked you for your answers, I noticed, however, that you did not give an answer to one of her questions, and this is a question of departisation in local self-government units and, on the other hand, in social work centres. You yourself have spoken on several occasions about it, first of all, when you have explained your political position and your party's political position, all those criticisms that you suffer and constant calls for being in government, and you cannot even tell people who are in your party or close to your party or your party's voters, certain voices that today are said to be modern, to provide a job or some other kind of work, I would not even tell a privilege, but a way to survive in these difficult circumstances. It is true that the law also provides for the possibility, i.e. the obligation of a public competition, but such an institute exists throughout a number of other areas, so we have serious problems. Besides, and your ministry, I have to mention, if I'm not mistaken, a few months ago, for the chief inspector at the Labour Inspector's Office, who in your ministry, appointed the person who recently co-ordinator of your party's Belgrade Committee, a candidate, I think also a committee member at Vozdovac Municipality. The smallest problem is 10, 50 or 100 places that are given on the party line. This makes people feel that according to every right or obligation the state has towards them, from sewage, to health books and social aid, they have to go to the ministerial and party counter. That's what's destroying this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52293	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52294	As far as departmentation is concerned, I think that since I've been a minister, you can also find out the data, there are more state secretaries and assistants than is necessary, first of all, to say that when it comes to the total number, which again is the subject of another story, the result of a coalition agreement and a large number of parties that make up that coalition, and that I have not brought any man from my party to the post, nor an assistant, nor a secretary of state. This is the only ministry, literally the only one, where I, as a minister, have not brought any of my party colleagues to this place. As for the Labour Inspector and Director of the Labour Inspectorate, it is true that he is a member of my party, that he was a competition, that there is a commission. I don't even know who the members of the competition commission are, you can trust me or not. There were nine candidates in the competition. Probably, when someone listens to this, they'll think I'm telling the truth, 'cause that's exactly the one to be chosen, but believe me, I didn't even know who the board members were, the commission suggested, it's mine in the end just to sign it or not. So that's the role of the minister in both this and other similar cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52295	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill. You may, within the time of your parliamentary group, be my guest, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52296	I just want to say that it's a good thing that the government accepted this amendment, because the solution she suggested was confusing, completely bickering with logic and grammar. I just want to point out once again that this law doesn't care enough about small agricultural holdings. Under the draft law, the right to social assistance is a poor woman who owns less than half a hectare of the country or less than a hectare of the country, if they are households where all members are unable to work. And in the principle debate, I was talking about how almost negligible is a few households that can live off half a hectare of land. It's just those households that have extremely high-quality land, which were fortunate to develop some good business on that land, but it's small. Secondly, most households in this category are nursing households, who are simply unable to process the country themselves, let alone process it in a way that will enable them to exist and income. Third, the greatest lack of this legal solution is that in the same way it treats land regardless of its quality, to its category. In the same way, he treats land and the highest quality orans, for example, near Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and pastures at the Cave High, on the Old Mountain. I think it's a flaw this law needs to remove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52297	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52298	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 15 of the first position reads: "In the institution for raising children and youth educational measures are carried out", the facility is missing, "in a educational institution, in accordance with special regulations". Our amendment reads: “In the institution for raising children and youth, educational measures are carried out to refer children and youth to the educational institution and educational measures of enhanced supervision in the appropriate institution for the training and education of minors. ” And in the debate in principle, I was saying that the law did not recognize as a user child or a young person, perpetrators of crimes. The amendment we have made is in line with Serbia's current legislation, with the Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors. I saw Mr. Maric's amendment, which is very similar to our amendment, but I still think that the amendment submitted by the DSS Group is broader and in line with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52299	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 19th amendment, in the same text, MP Dusan Maric, together MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic, together with a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, submitted Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52300	Article 19. The bill, which we propose to delete, provides that each municipality and every city can set up an agency or foundation to deal with social protection issues. I draw attention that this is the continuation of this government's wrong policy. There is no session where we do not adopt a law establishing new foundations, new agencies, new administrations, new councils, and all of this is financed from the budget, from the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We in the SRS believe that there is no valid reason, especially at the time of this economic crisis, to establish new issues in addition to the social work centres and other existing institutions dealing with social protection. If the proposed solution remains, it can theoretically happen that over the next few months in Serbia we have new 160 agencies and foundations to deal with social protection. For these agencies, rooms are necessary, or money is needed for renting rooms, electricity, wages, telephones, utility services, etc. We believe that these funds are much more useful to help the socially endangered families directly. That's one possibility. Another possibility is that these means could trigger the work of the so-called so-called. Social non-profit enterprises. I point out that only in Slovenia 7% of employees work in such enterprises. The third option, we have now heard from Minister Ljajic that 102 social workers are missing in Serbia. I think the ideal solution is that these funds that local self-government could spend on the establishment of foundations and agencies are used to hire these 102 social workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52301	MP Zoran Antic. Excuse me, Mr Anticu, first Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52302	Very short. That's what I was talking about in the first place. Founding agencies, a foundation, that's just a possibility. In some countries this has turned out to be very useful, because of the use of EU funds and funds. Where this is not necessary, it will not be formed, will not be financed from the budget; if established, they can only be financed from those funds coming from the EU. Therefore, there will be no new employment in these agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52303	Mr. Anticius, just re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52304	This explanation of Mr. Secretary seems very nice, but I don't see it in the law. That's probably your position, your opinion, but there's no guarantee of government behind it. We only have a few members of the mentioned public agency and foundation and there is an opportunity to set up these agencies. Therefore, if you already have such an attitude, it should in some way enter the very text of the law. This way, we from the opposition remain to take your word for it. Many times we have had many promises from government members and few of these promises have been made. There's no need to mention here which program you entered the 2008 pre-election campaign and what we have today. Not to say it again, I talk about it very often. I just want to say that the possibility of establishing public agencies and foundations is contrary to the exposé of the Prime Minister. Just ten days ago, at the third point of the exposé, among the goals of this new reconstructed government was a reduction in public spending. Public agencies and foundations are literally the opposite of this goal, means increasing public spending in the coming period. I would like to say that very little, speaking of agencies, is involved in reducing public spending in Serbia, although most European countries have joined a reduction in their bureaucracy. Even one Great Britain, which has a significantly stronger economy, with which we cannot compare in any way, reduces the number of its agencies. You have information that in Romania they are going to reduce public officials by about 26,000 people. The same goes for reducing public spending. Not to mention these countries that are directly affected by this financial crisis – Greece, Spain, Portugal, all seek to reduce public spending. There's only a lot to talk about in Serbia. There has been a lot of talk during the government's reconstruction, even some parties that form today's government agreed with the opposition that it is necessary to go down to the number of agencies. But here, when a legal project arrives, it's forgotten. When there is a possibility of eventually hiring someone from that party nomenclature, funds are not chosen. The election is ahead of us, we don't need to miss any chance of getting any votes. We have a situation to talk about, and the other is done. How can we finance this kind of public spending? Either by increasing taxes or by further borrowing. Just another figure in favour of reducing public spending and the unnecessaryness of this Article 19, which is being advocated by the SNS, is that the cost of interest in 2010 compared to 2009, the interest that we pay on the basis of debts increased by 50% and, compared to 2008, about 117%, that in the context of capital expenditure in the 2008 interest budget, was 26%, 65%, and 95% in 2010, respectively. We don't have anything more to invest. Everything goes to our interest, everything goes to public consumption. I think it's extremely incorrect, unprincipled by your ministry to propose this member in law, because, as I said, he is not in agreement with the policy with which the government went out ten days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52305	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52306	Article 206 of this law makes it clear that all services, which institutions and institutions are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't say anywhere that any agency or foundation will be financed. Therefore, this remains as a possibility for local self-government, the province, where it is estimated to be important and useful for the development of social protection services, to establish them, primarily because of projects and the use of funds from so-called. The European Social Fund. There are no new employees and no costs for the eventual establishment of these agencies and services.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52307	Thank you. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52308	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, when a list of MPs signed under this amendment is seen and the text is completely identical, and the number of MPs is 26, it is concluded that something is wrong with this member of the law if 26 MPs have the same objection to that member of the law and suggest that this member of the law be deleted. On the other hand, you have explained to us that the funding of these agencies and foundations will be from the EU budget, or from the EU's social budget. It's simple, the experience we have with some ministries that have funded certain projects and things like that... I'll only mention the Ministry of Health. Do you know that the EU has assessed a dozen programmes financed in this way, as you are predicting the funding of these foundations and agencies as completely unsuccessful and that these EU budget bonds have been spent in one completely incredible way? We therefore believe that this member of the law should be deleted, especially because you have a wide range of social assistance subjects. It's completely unnecessary for us to start both agencies and foundations. Although you say in the law that it is possible and not binding, I simply see here the possibility that certain local self-governments make these foundations and agencies and that they hire people just after the amendment that we discussed earlier, that this is where party personnel are employed, and that we are talking about depolitizing the authorities. So, I think it's perfectly right that this member does not stand in this law, because he doesn't belong in the law and it's completely inappropriate that he exists in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52309	National MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52310	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, the PUPS Group will support this law for the reasons that the honourable MP Dr. Krpic explained in the principle debate, and during today's debates in particular. We will also support the amendments that you have accepted, regardless of which parliamentary groups they are proposing. We appreciate that the law is good and will ensure better both the material and the social position of those categories of citizens to whom it is at the moment and the most needed in the future, and who are in a position of social needs and particularly the expression of solidarity of those who can provide it. We point out that it is particularly important for the law to specify the obligations of local self-government and cities, the provinces, in this regard, and that they take responsibility for part of the obligations that concern the particular needs of those citizens who cannot provide the means to live. In that sense, we think we should look for other solutions. The law is good, it's one dimension. There were also words here about agencies, and we think we should look for other solutions. In that sense, the PUPS Parliamentary Group will offer one solution which, hopefully, will be acceptable to all. Namely, our expert group is preparing a law on social entrepreneurship, which we will offer in the next period to consider primarily the professional public, and then propose to introduce the government and the assembly procedure. Mr Maric spoke about the work of up to 10% of the working population of individual countries in certain countries of Europe in this part of economic relations. We think that these experiences should be used and that we should pass it on to us. In this social entrepreneurship, all those who are, in a certain sense, discriminated or unable to become adequately involved in a working part of the economy should be engaged. We think primarily of people with disabilities, not unemployed who have a certain number of years to retire, disabled persons, other socially endangered groups such as Roma, etc. Normally, this also implies a certain positive economic discrimination towards this kind of entrepreneurship. In this respect, it is very important to include other ministries, which could contribute to the adoption of this type of entrepreneurship in our country and in this respect provide a different way of providing socially vulnerable categories, not just as this law provides. I said, our expert group with Mr Milan Krkobibic, deputy mayor of Belgrade, is preparing text based on experiences from other countries, such as Great Britain, Slovenia, etc., and we will soon offer those solutions in public debate. We call on all parliamentary groups and other political actors to support us in this and to engage in the preparation of such a document. Our parliamentary group will propose that law, will contribute to solving problems of socially endangered categories of citizens in a different way, and I hope that we will have the support of all of you. Finally, since I am using the time of the parliamentary group, we imitate the law, in voting day we will give our vote to prepare this law, along with these suggestions and suggestions that I made in my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52311	National MP Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52312	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, the minister is not here, counterpart Maric has requested the removal of a 19th member, who, according to the minister, has the possibility of open variations to form agencies or other working bodies that will be financed exclusively by EU funds. First, we haven't even gotten candidate status yet, and we're not gonna get it soon, so there's nothing out of those funds, that's the first thing. The second thing, the Agency Act does not say that the agency will be financed, so there is no strict rule that it can be exclusively from EU funds, no different, so that the answer also does not stand. The third thing the minister needs to answer to is whether it's for local self-government to help socially endangered categories of population, social institutions or social work centres, whatever you want to call it? What makes me say that? The abuses that occur in local self-government... to say that there are supervisory and management boards of all agencies that have an anogation for their work (or compensation, whatever you want to call it), they can come up with that fee being greater than that of the agency itself or any body. I would remind you that the units of local self-government under their statutes have the ability to form working bodies, without agencies, which can be from committees, from the ranks of citizens or elected persons, functioners of local self-government units, who can work without compensation. So the strict rule that only the agency can work if it is financed by EU funds cannot be prescribed, even by law. That's the first thing. The second thing, since it is not known whether local self-government should encourage the development and assistance of social institutions, then why is the amendment of Mr. Paja Momchilova, which requires that each unit of local self-government develop a programme to improve social protection and establish measures and activities to encourage and develop existing and new social protection services? So setting a measure doesn't mean you have to have financial resources to help someone, and it doesn't mean you have to pay board members to help someone. One local self-government through one of its own bodies, which has the right to appoint in the congregation of the municipality or in the city’s assembly unit, however you will, local self-government, can collect funds for socially endangered categories of people through various activities (through a media campaign, through any kind of donations, donation evenings). So there is no possibility of a framed space where the EU fund should be a crucial factor for you to help someone, more specifically the local self-government unit to launch a campaign to help the social work centre. I'll tell you one of the best political examples (it's good that you've come, Mr. Minister) that local self-government is the biggest sponsor of the socially endangered category in the pre-election campaign, when you're dividing the fertilizer, bricks, blocks, glasses and umbrellas, when you share everything that's unimaginable to share in normal life. In the pre-election campaign, especially local self-government and especially those political parties that we don't know where they're funding from to share such things are the best help to socially endangered categories... Please accept this amendment and then accept Dr. Paia Momchilov's amendment, because it's just amazing that only the ministry doesn't know what it wants. A simple question: can a local self-government unit help socially endangered categories or can't, or institutions such as a social work centre or some other institution that deals with the team? How many voluntary actions do you have, free of charge, that have been carried out successfully, to help these people? The other day, one of the presidents of the municipality shared a donation he received in the form of a campaign, attaching the DS badge and its flag to it and saying we provided it. It is an abuse that should not be defined by the EU fund, as the donation goes from there. So I ask you to channel the possibility of helping, that every kind of help that goes, doesn't matter which direction and direction, is accepted, because socially endangered categories are people who are not their own fault in that status. You brought them into that status, that socially responsible government. Every day at the unemployment office, we have people who register as unemployed, and after the offer of related jobs, as you like to say, to offer one doctor a job as a veterinarian or to cut branches in Belgrade, so when he rejects it, they take it off the unemployment bureau and he's neither guilty nor due, a professional man, ended up on the street and is socially endangered. Unfortunately, it's a difficult way for all those in line to get help from this country, because whoever this country feeds won't get far. So accept this amendment, and Dr. Pai Momchilov and Mr. Dusan Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52313	National MP Dusan Maric has a word, followed by Gordana Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52314	Mr. Ljajic, you say there is no obligation, but only the possibility that units of local self-government will establish these foundations and agencies, and you are formally right here. However, you and I both know that most municipalities will take advantage of that possibility. Simply, there is a practice for the ruling parties to take advantage of every opportunity to hire their party activists and there is no doubt that they will also take advantage of this legal solution. You also say that the work of the foundation will not be financed by funds from the republican budget, but by funds from the budget of local self-government and funds that will provide certain EU funds. That is why this legal solution should remain, and that is, in our view, another reason why this member of the law should be deleted. The Serbian Radical Party has a clear view that Serbia should not join the EU. Every gift we received from the EU later cost us dearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52315	National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52316	There's something I'd like to say about the amendment submitted by our esteemed colleague, Dr. Pai Momchilov, which is an amendment to Article 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52317	I have to read it first, wait. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Are you saying, Mr. Minister, that he's being accepted and becoming an integral part of the proposal? You have to say that for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52318	We have accepted the amendment of Ambassador Paja Momchilov. We believe he improves the text and this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52319	Thank you. Since he's accepted, do you have a desire to argue yet? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52320	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 22 of Section 6 reads: "In providing funds for the provision of social protection services, the user also participates, in the scope and manner laid down by this law. “ We felt, and so we intervened, that after this: “providing social protection services” should stand – can also be involved by the user, in a manner established by this law. What made us feel that we needed to intervene in this way? In fact, this law speaks of the need for the state to assist users in the exercise of human rights. In this case, it's a right to social protection. Users are most often persons on the sidelines of society, for various reasons, which are most often unable to provide social protection services. Then what happens if they're not able to provide the funds? Then they won't be able to do their service because they won't be able to pay. The state, however, is obliged, by ratifying some international conventions, to provide services permanently to these types of Serbian citizens who are in a position to need that assistance. By our wording "can" we also foresee the situation that the user still has the possibility to have some partials, and if not, then the service will be provided in a way that is further prescribed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52321	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52322	This amendment and several subsequent amendments are a good reason to open one issue in principle. What's really going on? It may be too late now, since this machine was launched, in connection with the law, but if the purpose of the change or any new solution was to improve the material security of social security users, then it was not necessary to change the law, but only to change the proper provision of the existing Social Protection Act. But here it has moved a little wider, a little further, apparently to meet some European conditions. Usually, when something is prescribed, then a mistake like this is made because the bill is the most common provisory. We won't be able to apply this law to the full extent of how someone might want to apply this law. It is probably not a question of what principles this law is based on, which principles are used, but it is lost in the light that this law should first and foremost regulate the situation when an individual or a family comes into a state of social need. It's now the widest form, not to go into individual reasons why; it's somewhere because of income, somewhere because of health conditions or other circumstances. It's not a problem when you tax it out, what do you say, rights or services. It's always been less or more, just some termological difference has come up. However, I must draw attention to the fact that you've lost sight of the state guaranteeing it here. This is not guaranteed by local self-government, this is not guaranteed by territorial autonomy, but only by state and state power. Last time I told you, if you went to the government's transformation, the reconstruction, as you say, then you had to rebuild a ministry that would have both work, and health and social policy. You see for yourself, in some rights almost 60% of the matter is from the field of health, and they are regulated by social regulations. Furthermore, it is not clear here whether some social protection jobs are transferred to lower forms, allegedly, authorities, and that is not the government, local self-government, like the entrusted affairs of the state or the original affairs of local self-government. This is not only the case with social protection, this is also the case with health care, education, etc. I don't think you should carry it like that, because then we have a completely different situation from the local self-government unit to the local self-government unit, in terms of the right guaranteed by the Republic. When guaranteed by the Republic, it must be guaranteed in full scope both in Black grass and in Dedinj. But it's just out of sight because there are other factors, how to provide funds, etc. There's room to regulate it, if one stable system is created that works, which has its pyramidal organization and knows who's responsible for what. You say social workers are missing. They're probably missing, but I just can't figure out that a graduate sociologist can requalified as a graduate social worker. I can't figure that out. That would be about like going to class for six months, so the doctor will be a vet. It's impossible, people. The fact that the National Employment Service in Nis, G17 plus, has found a good way to get the money out, to give the Faculty of Philosophy, with the last name Jovanovic, is their personal combination, and that's what you need to say publicly, not now to wrap left, right. How are we going to requalified a graduate lawyer as a graduate physicist? Let's make some psychologist do something, so he can be a teacher -- a social worker, so there's some logic, but a sociologist in a social worker, that's impossible. It starts with s. It starts with a "s" and a heart, but it's treated by a cardiologist. I think it's a principled failure. Many world organisations are considering social issues: besides those of classical social organisations, the World Bank and the IMF also appear and talk about different pillars of social protection. The zero pillar of social protection that is now being developed is social, somewhere state-run, pension -- the country's award for a citizen who lived 65 years of his life. We're a long way from that, that's quite clear. This law cannot see the differences that exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And they exist. Villages are empty, cities are filled, megapolises are created that will have problems with electricity, water, sewerage, transport, energy etc. It's like Tito's still alive. Industrialization at the level. Since the tractor came, the ground hasn't been processed. You know that yourself. Until there was a tractor, everything was processed. It's a little funny, but it's true. So this text doesn't really see those needs. Why did I say this ministry had to unite all these jobs? For one simple reason: the right to social protection cannot be a right to requalification. It can be achieved through the National Employment Service. So the man is in a state of social need. It needs to be requalified. It will be the right of the National Employment Service to achieve, not to fund and create some workshops, courses, etc. I agree with workshops and courses when it comes to children who are distracted by development, that there is some space that they can engage, but that's another variant. But if you think you can permanently resolve the state of the social need of a family or an individual by retraining, by education, to get a job, please, there is an institution where it should be done. I know it's working, but have you seen what happened to the social workers before? Turns out they were in a state of social need. They're probably in a state of social need if they don't work. I'd just like to draw your attention to the fact that between members 81, 87, 88 and 89. (conversation of the amount of financial social assistance) there is a discrepancy and a kind of conflict in terms of some concepts. Mr. Ljajic, the social situation in our country cannot be solved by contributions from minutes on television, painting and complicity with a person who is in a state of social need. I don't mention any names. It can't be solved even when a party financed from the tycoon builds a house and says, "We are human." Turns out everyone else isn't human and they're human. I'll give you some concrete examples of how this can be solved. This is a lady who's worked two years as a hairdresser. She believed she could take her job and resolve the issue of her family's existence. Worked, tortured for two years and shut down the store. This is now a calculation: in the first part there is a calculation of contributions for pension-inhabited insurance, which has not been paid, the second amount of contributions for health, third for unemployment and fourth income tax. The whole story on this big paper is based on the following: two years ago, she owed twenty-something thousand dinars on this basis. After not working, she checked out, meanwhile interest, interest, interest - 280,000 dinars. Looking at the interest account now turns out to be Serbia's largest greener, as it charges green interest, worse than Banka Intheza, based on late contributions and taxes. How is it possible that in two years interest will exceed the principal four times? Is that interest calculation something real that belongs to the state? It's not real. Write it off. Write down first what is an unreal claim, an unreal request; it tortures you by balances in income management, and you bring people into an unpleasant situation. This lady is with her husband a tenant; if by any chance she owned the apartment, she would have worked out the logic of Kori Udovici – sell and pay. So that's one measure where you can significantly help. The state can be very helpful. Why do we have the VAT 18%? Why don't we cut it to 14%? Then cancel all subsidies and all aids coming from the Ministry of Economy. Now we have the following situation: everyone pays, everyone has to account, so whoever pays, pays. It comes into the budget. The budget finds the board and says, "Here, I'll have this much to determine to be subsidies for the economy, and then selectively, Mika can, Pera can't, this one has stand-up, start-up, etc. Like Santa Claus. You cut by 4% of the VAT, so be Santa for everything. Like this, you're holding him in a state of addiction, destroying potential opportunities for a man to take over social care of himself and his family by his own work. So this is a different idea. I've only given you two ideas, and there are 25 such ideas for concrete savings that cost nothing. Absolutely nothing. I understand why you were talking about welfare centres and social protection institutions for a number of local self-government units. In some places it is irrational to create an independent centre because local self-government cannot provide a number of employees according to some standards, and somewhere overlapping, there are also these dissociated areas. We have villages where one household lives. It's really in a state of social need. Here, for example, in Sjenica, I don't want to go after these dogs in Serbia, where there's no living soul within 20 kilometers, one man receives some agricultural pension of five, six thousand dinars. He can live with that money there, it's important to him to pay for the electricity, not to turn it off, but there's no one to talk to. The social worker doesn't even know that that man exists there on that hammer. Make politics. Manage the corridors, make the villages, send the people, give them conditions so they can provide some existence. That can't be done overnight. That takes a national strategy. Our villages need to develop, to make life in these villages more humane. They've taken our territory, Mr. Ljajic. They're emptying our territory. It's tight for some people. He just walks across the mountain and says, "My sheep, my country." We have to take care of that, too. It's all mixed up here. I agree, the level of social protection, the services that people who are in charge of working on social issues have to have some quality, to meet some standards, but we need to be aware that it's impossible to provide that capacity in some small municipalities. In some municipalities you can provide teachers, but you cannot provide doctors and others. Here, and here, we've secured one doctor, so these guys are throwing him out of the health care home where the apartment is, because someone else needs to get a job, someone's kid. Today it became cruel: I have power, I have power, I don't care, I throw it out; how I pass in court, I don't care. If I can't get through court, in three, four, five years, when it's over, we'll be able to make up for the damage and get the job done. I think this bill is taxing, by law, etc. acceptance of standards – we used to have extremely good social protection regulations – but as it will not be applicable. Because of the fact that there's no pyramid, that the state is responsible for these things, it's already settled, the local self-government will, in fact, not want to obstruct the application of this law, and there's nothing you can do about it. There's another piece coming in here. You know, when someone says -- about the means and purposes of the budget for funding local self-government, I just get chilly. Three years ago, a law on the financing of local self-government was passed and two years ago the law was not applied. Right? Why? There's no money. Kids, we've solved one problem. There's no money. That's about the message. Then why did we pass the law? We passed that law so MPs wouldn't race in the Assembly, when the transfer funds budget was passed, that everyone would drag for their municipality. Of course, some objective criteria, then the number of chairs, then the number of students, then the number of kindergartens, then the number of small children, so this, and that. Everything's gotten into some kind of math. One year that law was applied, and next year there's no money, it can't be applied. You know, the law needs to meet some conditions, it has to guarantee something, it has to provide something, and it has to be possible. We write here for nothing – we will choose a man who jumps seven meters up for the director of the Centre for Social Work. Well, no one's gonna jump seven feet up, 'cause it's impossible. So it has to be possible and tailored to our needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52323	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52324	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, on this planet Earth somewhere in the middle of the 17th century lived a great philosopher, named Baruch Spinoza, and had a very famous max that read – if the wise man did not teach the ignorant, he did double damage, he reduced his own reputation, and encouraged the ignorant to continue to sin. So I can understand the discussions that in this context tell us that maybe some jobs shouldn't be entrusted to the municipality. I can understand the discussion that goes in the direction that all municipalities may not have personnel capable of performing entrusted tasks. But I cannot accept the fact that in the year when the whole world is struggling with the economic crisis and VAT is the only way to finance the state, but also underdeveloped cities and the environment, someone is now proposing to reduce VAT. At the same time, when someone was in power, it did not occur to him that there was a VAT at all, but in the country of Serbia and without taxes, some paid, some did not, depending on who had the party book. So it's not the big one who knows a lot, it's the one who thinks a lot. Of course, it has been taken into account here and that much thought has been given when such a law was proposed and certainly that the intention of this law is to entrust the municipalities with those jobs that will allow people living in these municipalities to exercise some of their rights, but also that through these entrusted jobs the state of Serbia shows concern for individuals and solidarity with individuals facing the effects of the economic crisis, so that I cannot accept every explanation of every amendment heard in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52325	National MP Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52326	Respected presidents, respected Minister Ljajic, by adopting a bill on social protection and by accepting many amendments to the United Pensioners of Serbia, whose member I am, supports the improvement of the social situation of the most vulnerable and, as a rule, the poorest part of the population. In other words, we from the PUPS think that those in need of social assistance need to be implemented as is being implemented only in the city of Belgrade today. Our deputy mayor, Mr. Milan Krkobic, with Belgrade Mayor Mr. Gilas, with full support from coalition partners, is an excellent model of new social policy in Serbia. As Belgrade is doing today in the field of social policy, or rather, what we are doing today in Belgrade should be prepared tomorrow in Serbia. There is no better example than Belgrade at the moment. Belgrade is giving single aid to pensioners, and in the course of last year it distributed a billion and 80,000 to pensioners, i.e. those whose pension was less than 15,133 dinars. Belgrade is giving pregnant women and births; last year it gave a lot, and this year it envisions 114,025,000 dinars. Belgrade gives mothers who gave birth to threes, fours and twins; it totalled 11204,000 social aid dinars last year. Belgrade has introduced, Mr. Minister, the geronto-domestic, and there are 667 in Belgrade while they are not in Serbia. Belgrade provides 90,000 refugees and internally displaced persons. You must know that. But 10% didn't live on his territory, and he's using this social aid. What previous speakers have mentioned, that Serbia on the edges remains without its population and that demographic opportunities are changing, is one of the reasons why cities are increasing, and these are incomes. We in the PUPS think that this kind of thing that Belgrade is giving should be brought into line, to allow other citizens, that is, in other places in our territory. We would thus reduce the phenomenon that pregnant women only come because of births in Belgrade, that other poor layers that have low incomes come to Belgrade. That's how the state gives, but it does. These are no one's means, these are our assets, both in Belgrade, both in the King and in Babusnica. Therefore, in this law of ours or yours, which you bring, MPs will be on this side and we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52327	Replica to Mr Milivojevic, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52328	Mrs. Djukic, just to correct some data, since the idea of value added tax was not created in 2001. In 1992 - 1993, it was thought about it. Mrs. Djukic, the finance minister Zebic, and Vlatkovic, so Bora Milacic, the governments thought about it, there were several draft laws, but there were simply no circumstances for such a law to be passed, to be passed. It just wasn't such an ambience, it couldn't be done. At that time, the system of registers, cash registers and fiscal accounts developed. All this was done, it was almost and inherited in 2001, so the idea of reducing the value added tax is not the result of mere desires. In some countries, this rate is much lower. And when the Value Added Tax Act was passed, the Serbian Radical Party submitted amendments and asked that we reduce the value added tax to 15%, the higher rate, so if it turns out that we need to increase, we should increase. We think that now we should go to a reduction in that rate, because, and I have to tell you, economists know that, that's an excuse for this situation, in conditions where you're in charge to cover the deficit or to activate some public works, etc. The measure that follows the borrowing is the reduction of all tax rates. These two measures have brought the world out of the world’s crisis for thirty and some years. The famous Professor Canes made it up. So there's no improvisation here, it has to dominate, first of all, science, if anyone recognizes, I'm not in charge of these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52329	Milica Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52330	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of the parliamentary group, because I have to react to what my colleague Krpic said. I recognise every MP's right to speak of his party as best he can and to praise what his party has done best in some place, but what he said is just an example that we don't need a new law in the field of social protection at all. It is obvious that the old law, plus a lot of, a lot of money from the city budget, which is only a few percent smaller than it is republican, gives and how great opportunities to provide assistance, to give social benefits to endangered categories, pensioners, maternity services, etc. I don't think there's anyone in this room, including the people of the presidency, the minister and his assistant, who with so much money wouldn't help in the right way and wouldn't raise social services to the highest possible level. What is our problem is the lack of money and how with this money that we have in the Republic budget we meet all needs and we talk about fulfilling all the rights of our citizens, who and how they have a problem, and how they are poor, are really able to social needs, as the language of this law puts it. That's what I'm responding to, simply because I don't think it's the best example of what we're talking about today, and it's actually the best example of what we're saying right now is that local self-governments aren't always able to help their citizens, primarily because of their budgets, not because they don't want to, they don't have any intention or their social work centres are bad. It's simply about how much money we have, how we're going to deploy it, to feed as little money as possible to our mouths. So what I'd like to talk about, and I'd like to appeal that as MPs back to it, is the new law, are the amendments that are in here, and the story of how easy it is to spend money in a pre-election campaign can be seen whenever some new local elections, when they're divided by fertilizer, stoves, packages, this and that, but that's not the story of social aid, that's the story of something else. Let's get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52331	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52332	We felt that the records referred to in Article 23(2) should be kept in electronic form and that they could be in paper form. We felt it was desirable to put it first, because it was a longer-term record, a modern record, and ultimately, it meets some other government standards that talk about the pro-European government and that it wants to lead us to Europe. The answer I received was astounding, but in part; the amendment is not accepted because it creates obligations which at this time, given the technical equipment of social protection institutions, cannot be applied. So again, it's about the money being that it's crucial that we don't move forward. I appeal to both the minister and his assistants, leave the possibility that there are centres for social work that can do it, leave the possibility to do it, because I think there are centres for social work in the cities, I can also quote them, who can lead the story forward and the rest follow from the moment when opportunities are created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52333	Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52334	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52335	The amendment was accepted by a representative of the government. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52336	It's about not understanding two concepts again, what needs are, what are rights. That's what we talked about at the beginning of this debate on Article 3. So, as a country, we have signed international conventions where human rights are spoken of that are broader in social problems than human needs. This thread is passing through the law and in some ways this termological processing of the law degrades this law. I think you really need to accept this amendment to Article 29 because human rights are far wider and more important than the achievement of life's needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52337	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52338	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 31 concerning the principle of improving the quality of social protection. When we look at an explanation why this amendment to the SRS parliamentary club was not accepted, it is obvious that there has been a misunderstanding, because it is written not to change the essence and content of the provisions. Namely, we have proposed that Article 31 be amended. The essence of these changes is reflected in the creation of a legal framework that if conditions are created in due course, that is. If the economic situation improves, there may also be an increase in social giving. The current situation in Serbia, as far as social protection is concerned, is very difficult, and the main cause is the poor economic situation. Many working people have become users of individual social protection services, and most often users of the family’s material security so far. This is why much higher resources for social protection are needed year by year. At this point, social protection services are provided in line with the conditions dictated by this major crisis, which in Serbia is due to the major global economic crisis, but also to many other developments, such as the privatisation process. Assuming that the economic situation is more favourable one day, we believe that social service users should also be in a better position at that time. While the need to use social protection services was not so great, it was clear who had the right to social protection and who was addressing social protection institutions. These were people with certain diseases, old people and special needs, children without parental ageing, etc. There were also places for some other areas that are within the ministry of labour and social protection, for financial support to measures of a positive population policy. Today everything has changed, because as much money as anticipated for social contributions must be allocated to a really large number of users. When I mentioned the measures of a positive population policy, I would remind myself once again that the SRS MP club submitted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support to the family with children in January. At the beginning of the First Regular Session, the National Assembly did not accept that our proposal was being discussed, as no statement of compliance with EU law was delivered with the bill. We believe that such a statement is not necessary at all, and the argument is that individual EU Member States do not comply with EU legislation. Because of this truly unwarranted and unnecessary procedural obstacle, the National Assembly did not put the bill on the agenda, and it proposed that all children should be equalized before the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, that parents receive both child and parent allowances for each lively child. We believe that the law mentioned in the current form is discriminatory and that it needs to be changed as quickly as possible. Families who have more than four children or expect the birth of children who are in order of birth after the fourth would be so much more helpful in overcoming this time of crisis. However, the SRS parliamentary club's proposal remains out of the process because the National Assembly estimated that it was more important to mention, i.e. write a statement that the proposal complies with EU legislation. I have already said that the law whose amendments we have proposed defines that the right to parenting and children's allowances can only be realized for the first four children. There is one moment worth the attention: the World Health Organization has given its view that psychophysical development of children is adequate in families with the highest four children. The Serbian Ministry of Labour and Social Protection has accepted the position, in fact justifying the provisions of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. The position of the SRS is that all live births have to be equaled before the law, because in Serbia, there is a huge decline in birth, and the population is getting older. If you accept something like that, it would be a confirmation that it really is about improving the quality of social protection services at all, not just as the law we are discussing today defines. As regards Article 31, The proposal for a social protection law, we from the SRS, of course, have no objection to improving the quality of social protection services through the application of modern achievements of science and profession and professional support. We have no doubt that work will be done to improve professional competences of professionals and of course we consider it necessary, because in order for someone to participate in such a sensitive area as the area of social work is the fact that they must be educated and improved. However, in addition to such a way of improving the quality of social protection, we have proposed an additional quality with the amendment, which is, as I said at the outset, to create a basis for the improvement of the economic situation to bring about greater social giving to categories that are most needed: children without parental ageing, persons with special needs, victims of violence, old people who need home accommodation and other users to whom this law applies. During this discussion on the previous amendments, I have not reported, but it is mentioned that the citizens of Black Grass social protection services are being implemented through the institution of the Centre for Social Labour in Vlasotinc. We know that. We know that he's currently working three in that exhibit. Mr. Minister was there a while ago; unfortunately, you saw that the needs for social protection in that area were expressed in one narrow area, and these are the needs for geronto-domestics. It is an area where people live in villages that are very far away from Black grass and there in one village live two or three old people, who are helped by geronto-home women and how necessary. It's a cruel reality, you could see. I'll pass on another detail from the south of Serbia. Revolved by the way the government spends taxpayers' money on the continuous establishment of agencies for many Doljevac citizens, they want to set up an agency to sell their bodies, because they really have no other way to survive. That is the response of Doljevac citizens to the actions of the government. These details may be a little more related to the previous amendments, but they are certainly in close relationship with the amendment to Article 31, which I repeat, we have proposed another concrete way to improve the quality of social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52339	National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52340	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have accepted many amendments to this law and would be concluded that this law will be of solid quality. But that's not true. You've shown good will. While we are talking today about the legal frameworks for the social protection of our citizens, believe that there are some people at the minimum right now. You have shown and developed a sense of solidarity during your tours in the most extreme cases, but the problems of the citizens you have visited have not been resolved closely. In particular, when it comes to Article 34, which we have submitted to the amendment, this Article 34, as well as Article 36, is located in the third part of this law where formal terms are referred to after the rights acquired or at least to ensure the rights acquired under this law. But it's more technical. All citizens deserve equal attention. We don't know in advance who's poor and who's rich. Although, the largest number today is the poor. Not only do Serbian Prime Minister Cvetkovic, his ministers, Miskovic, Beko and others, but also those who follow their children to school every morning and do not have a sandwich to give them, those who get a smile back on their faces at the moment their children return from school when they say they received a good or even excellent grade that day. This is more about people who are 15 years old. A 15-year-old person has a certain level of special ability, so he doesn't have a business ability. Business ability, reminders, according to our Constitution is achieved at 18 years of age, but there are special kinds of abilities; persons at 15 have a willary ability and a working ability, and hence the possibility of making available what they have earned and provided. We have submitted an amendment to Article 34 of Section 4 of this Act. Paragraph 4 reads: “There is no way to view or copy, or to multiply the files that are kept confidential if the purpose of the procedure could be impaired or the public interest or the legitimate interest of the user or a third party is opposed to it. ” So we suggest that instead of "can't" it stands "not allowed". If defined as “cannot, ” that means that they are occasionally and can view, copy, and otherwise learn about the writings needed to obtain rights under this article or this law. If it is said that it is not allowed, then there is an imperative ban to do so, and you have seen that there is a serious interest in protecting it. So, first of all, it's about protecting one public interest, it's about a procedure for which it's not good for the general public to get familiar with all the problems that exist. Or do you think that all problems can be solved by the wider public getting to know the situation? I simply cannot believe that you point out that there is a problem with the lack of 102 social workers when we know that there are doctors in Serbia who are jobless. What does that indicate? It indicates that this government does not run social policy, does not lead a serious and responsible policy. Apparently, this is where the Ministry of Education and the National Employment have been scheduled. During the previous years, you have repeatedly put a helmet on your head (we think it should be protected), it was yellow. You'll have to put on a blue helmet a little more often, so you can go around construction sites to stimulate the development of this industry. A large number of people are employed in doing these construction work. The construction operation is being launched by fifteen-six related activities. Just to go out there to see, to show that this country is seriously considering these problems. The Ministry of Economic Development must also have strong co-operation with the Ministry of Labour, Social and Combat Affairs in order to bring the citizens of Serbia, who, not by their own free will and not by their own fault, to a difficult and uninvited situation... Since you've been very keen to accept these amendments, I think you'll accept this amendment as well. But let me tell you, I have a feeling, even though I don't underestimate not only the profession of a social worker, but any profession, on the contrary, without professional and quality people, people who are nationally responsible, in every respect, there's no progress on this country... But we don't miss it, we're not as short of a social worker as a cashier. Rarely come to social work centres to seek, although there are such cases, consultations or some help from psychologists, social workers or the like; it comes for material incomes. Now, that's what this country should be more concerned about. That's what Minister Ljajic, as an individual, certainly can't do, but this government, which you say is socially responsible for taking care of national policy... It's just declarative, really. So far, it's never been shown in any case. How could enough work be provided for cashiers in social work centres? Here, I'll just give you two suggestions to think about. The first is to energize in the government, whose member you are, to oppose corruption, bribery and everything that leads this country backwards, on the one hand. On the other hand, when I just said to put on a blue helmet occasionally, it's symbolic, but we need to start economic activity. If there are economic activities, there will be distribution funds, i.e. to give to those who are otherwise unable to organize themselves. If there's no business activity, it's not worth it. We'll one day... As much as the value added tax, even if one of the colleagues suggested it, so the government accepted and increased, it will be spent once. Only the supply of new funds and new values can provide perspective and guarantee a better life for our citizens. Anything else based on declarative regulations won't be worth much. One of the governments in 2005 brought the Social Protection Development Strategy and could perhaps say so – so we have a social protection strategy. This social protection strategy has brought nothing better, as this law itself will not allow for a better life. Therefore, when we talk about amendments and in the debates in principle we are not just talking about correcting the laws; we want to give you a proposal for thinking and for the laws that follow, and for their application, because this is the voice of the people, this is not the voice of the individual, someone who came by chance to sit in this Parliament, but we are daily in conversation with our citizens, we know what their problems are. If there's no business activity going on, if there's no new values, you won't be able to solve this problem, let's start from being honest with you. Regardless of your wish, needs are much greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52341	The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. You have to sign in to know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52342	Well, I think you know that whenever I submit an amendment to explain it, especially now that I have the impression that Mr Ljajic will also accept this amendment to Article 34 and the amendment to Article 36, because he does not in any way compromise the concept, as you have imagined it; he only improves this text, defines certain things and nothing else. Here's the amendment to Article 36 we filed... Article 36. The bill reads: “The user has the right to a free choice of services and social protection services provider, in accordance with this law. “ This is Article 36. It's a bill of law. We have suggested adding the following text: "based on relevant information and information on possible risks and consequences of social exclusion". No form of protection, no form of assistance can be shown and cannot be provided to those persons who are not sufficiently informed and who do not want to do so. By the way, I have already noted that the rights of users in this Part III of the proposed law concern only the formal means of achieving these rights or some procedural assumptions or technical works, and in no way do they change the concept of your bill, so that this is truly objectively possible to accept. I don't think anyone will mind you, Mr. Ljajic, or your coalition partners. Well, you're on the move now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52343	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52344	Exactly what you propose to this amendment is contained in article 35, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52345	There's no replica, you can only in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52346	It is not contained in Article 35(1) in the way we suggested it, but in a different way. I don't think there's any interference, or that there's a commitment in the application of this law. But you didn't call on Article 34, that it might be contained in Article 35, but it just doesn't bother, it doesn't hurt, it's not hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52347	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52348	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, article 39, has only one position and reads: “A user who is not satisfied with the service provided, the procedure or the behaviour of the service provider can appeal to the competent authority. ” We wrote Article 2, which is our amendment, and it reads: “The child, the user of the service, which is not satisfied with the service provided, the procedure or the behaviour of the persons involved in social protection, can appeal to the competent authority in accordance with the law. ” The child, according to this law, but also according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, already has the right to information, the right to participate and freely express his views in all the procedures in which his rights are decided. We believe that our amendment is a natural continuation of something that the legislator, or legislator, has started with this law, but has at some point stopped at this Article 39. The answer you gave us to this amendment says that a child as a user of services is meant by what you have written – a service user, but I remind you that in Article 34(2) and Article 3(3), you separate a child as a service user, in Article 35 paragraph 3 you separate a child as a service user, in Article 41(2), you separate a child and a young person as a service user. We therefore believe that in article 35, you should separate a child who is entitled to appeal from you, giving him the opportunity to have the right to appeal, before you say, in Article 41(2): “A minor person (hereinafter referred to as child) and a full - time person until 26 years of age... “ it’s very controversial again because in some laws in Serbia (you are referring to Family Law) a person up to 26 years of age is treated as young, and the Youth Strategy considers him to be a young person up to 30 years old. Simply, this discrepancy will be a problem later in the application of the law, because, rest assured, users will call for one, second or third, and you cannot accept to say – we will act according to Family Law, because you have to respect the whole of the legislation here. What I want to draw attention to is what is further developing in this position 2. You say that a minor and a 26-year-old person is a user within the meaning of Article 1 when due to family and other living circumstances he is at risk of health, safety and development, or if it is known that without the support of the social protection system he cannot reach an optimal level of development. Now you state why. I'm very afraid of this "optimal" because someone else needs to assess what an optimal level of development is for that child. We have, and you're saying yourself, a lack of social workers, we have a social work center service that's quite deficiting, which has very few people to evaluate, and they're going to evaluate what is optimal development. It just seems to me that you've given too much ingenuity. And the very word "optimal" for me is very dangerous at this point, because I don't think anyone's going to take that assessment seriously, it's the next member, but that's why I believe that in this article the 39th position we've offered in favour of this law and not disrupting the concept, it's just going in the direction of the concept you've given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52349	National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The word is Mrs Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52350	The basic social protection developmental pathways first start from looking at the current problems, then, an analysis of the existing situation and, three, observed problems and shortcomings. Social work centres are mostly doing these jobs. In social work centres, under the still applicable Social Security and Social Security Act, there were teams who did these jobs, however, you are introducing the concept of the head of the case in this law. It is not clear to me now, and I would therefore like the minister to answer me – you say, on the one hand, that you do not have enough social security employees, you lack 102 social workers... But they're not the only ones working in social security, besides social workers, we also have a social associate, including psychologists, defecologists, lawyers and other employees, economists for example. The Serbian Radical Party thinks it is not good that one person, it will most likely be a social worker, the case leader... So, from the beginning to the end, it's going to be this person who's going to look at, evaluate and decide on the state and needs of the users. We don't think that's enough, and that's how you introduced and further employed certain people who aren't from the existing state of the social work centres. Whether there are existing social workers, who have been or who have overqualified themselves and now become case leaders, I don't know, and I'd like to find out. I think this amendment that we have submitted is very appropriate because the term that we have suggested to be inserted, which is monitoring, exists in many declarations and in many strategies concerning social protection, so that term is not new. How are you going to assess the situation on the ground and make some concrete decisions if you do not see the current situation in the field? That is why we believe that unless you accept this amendment, or put it before the evaluation and the need for the term “monitoring”, you will not be in a position to assess the shortcomings in the social protection system. As counterpart Krasic has already said, we are afraid this law will not be adequate to see the real state of citizens either. What is the lack of social workers and others in social work centres, and it has been criticised, is that they have kind of bewitched themselves, worked in their environments, and that they have paid much less attention to people on the ground. That's why we had trouble meeting after a few days of people starving, poverty, exhaustion, all that. We feel that it takes a lot more than that... In some ways, the amendment increases the responsibility of employees at social work centres because they need to get out of their centres and look at the situation on the ground. As an SRS, we believe that if it stays this way, it will not be good because it will not adequately look at and solve the problems of the most vulnerable people in Serbia. That is why we suggest that you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52351	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52352	Certainly, without accepting this amendment, the aim of this law and even reforming it in the social protection system is what you pointed out in your explanation, which is one proactive role of the social work centre. And the case-leader's model just wants to achieve what you pointed out in the context of this amendment, so that social work centres don't turn into counters where people will get only one-time financial assistance, but the case manager will actually take care of the causes of poverty, the reasons why someone came into a state of social need and try to eliminate the causes of the situation in which the user found himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52353	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52354	The law doesn't make it clear that the role of case manager is exactly what you said, that's one. Two, you haven't answered who these case leaders are. They're probably social workers, but are they new people who are employed at the Social Labour Centre, which is why 102 other social workers are missing, or are they people who have already been employed at the Social Labour Centre?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52355	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52356	When I was talking about the deficit in the social work centres, I was talking about the deficit of professional staff, not just social workers. I also include pedagogicals, psychologists, lawyers and other professional workers who are needed by social work centres. Otherwise, this job will also be done by the case manager's model to function with existing personnel that we have at social work centres, without receiving new people. We need these 102 workers, but because of the restrictions we have on hiring all these functions, including what the new law says, we're going to do with the existing staff.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52357	The word is Mrs. Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52358	I still don't get it, because first you said 102 social workers are needed, but now you're saying they're social associates, so not 102 social workers, maybe 20-30 social workers. I just can't imagine that there's no way that people who are employed in other institutions, lawyers, pedagogues, defecologists... You know how many defecologists there are on the Bureau, how many psychologists who don't have a job, why they can't get a job here?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52359	The 40th amendment was filed by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted an amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with an amendment to the Constitution and the legal system has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52360	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers and Associates Ministers, ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, allow me, on behalf of the SPS Group - JS and as the applicant of the five amendments, of which three have been accepted, to hope that the fourth, given that the Committee has accepted it, will present several findings concerning the law and closer to what this amendment sets out and a few others. I won't report later on every amendment, but I have to say I didn't even participate in the principle debate. I would like to state on behalf of the parliamentary group that we have before us a law that has significantly improved social protection in relation to the previous situation, that such a law pursues a more modern way of resolving social issues, as it seems in other countries, above all, in EU countries. Of course, we do not think that this law is ideal and that it has reached some range of perfection, there will certainly be opportunities in the next period and to improve it, but, in general, it certainly expresses a new desire for a better and comprehensive way of solving all the problems relating to social protection. I would also express my gratitude on behalf of the parliamentary group and point out the great constructiveness and good co-operation with the Minister for Social Policy and Labour and with the co-workers of the Ministers, because we could in a very high-quality and comprehensive way talk about certain parts of this law and, based on consultations, come up with some opinions and some common solutions that have improved certain parts of this law. This is an example, indeed, where we see that the Ministry and we are MPs, at least when it comes to the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Unity of Serbia, there are real partners and there is mutual interest in finding the right solutions. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. The amendments of the Socialist Party of Serbia, including the one to Article 40, relate primarily to improving the position of parents who have children distracted by development. Given the previous situation, as it was resolved, I think progress has been made. We had a field reaction, as well as the ministers and the people of the ministry, as well as us from the parliamentary group, and I believe others, the reaction of one category of people, above all I think of families and parents who have children distracted in development, that their position was not adequately treated and resolved; if they were compared to foster families, they were absolutely in a more unfavourable position. I think that after the adoption of all these amendments from this part, the position of those parents and individuals who have children distracted in the development or adults within their families will, hopefully, be different and better, although these improvements and changes have not been made to make such progress that the situation of biological families is in the same line with foster families. For example, in foster families, we have funds that are allocated for the needs and care of these persons, which are about 50-52% of the average income of employees in the Republic, which are increased in addition to the care and assistance of the other person. In addition, the foster parents had a supplement of about 30, to be exact, 32.5 per cent for their work with children, i.e. those who are in their family, noting that this supplement was accompanied by tax and pension insurance contributions. Of course, in turn is what is so-called. Specializing in foster care, and all in order for what are new tendencies, and that is the full inclusion of such faces. There's a tendency to get people who are distracted in the development as much as possible into one natural environment, and the best environment is definitely family, is it a foster... In any case, ideal or maximum range of inclusion would be achieved if those persons who have been distracted in development were in their natural environment, most natural, and that is certainly their family or biological family. Compared to the earlier realization that all these problems need to be solved through home accommodation for persons distracted in the development are increasingly going in this other direction, that these persons should be in the family circle. If the goal is to engage in such a way, then we must really accept the fact that it is the problem of the state, as it was and remained, but that in the field of vision we should certainly keep and have a biological family, which is faced with many problems. A person who is in a biological family, a child or an adult, cannot be the only problem of that family, should have certain benefits, which are not actually conveniences, but real help and care of the state, such as the care of the state for those children or those who are in foster families. It is important here to say that through this amendment in Article 40, we have actually achieved that this group, to say the least, or this family, the biological family has entered the service group, which so far has not been so. In Article 41, we have one closer definition and definition when it comes to being users, as well as other categories, which should be cared for through improvement of material security. Also, I would refer to article 83 (noting that I will not report later on), where we have special conditions for achieving the right to financial assistance. This right, according to this amendment adopted by the government, makes a face if it takes care of its child with developmental disturbances, so that it cannot be employed. It's very important, because parents who have such children, it's about the most difficult cases, they can't exercise their right to work, they can't be employed, and they often become social cases themselves, they take care of their child, they take care of such a person. When parallels or analogies with foster families were made in such an environment and with such facts, these biological families were indeed in an unequal position. I'd just say that these changes and additions, which improve the situation or position through the state's care of them and through a kind of social protection, have not been achieved, so to speak, the ceiling. I would like to express my satisfaction, on behalf of our parliamentary group, because one step in this direction has been made, and perhaps some of the following changes and additions of this law will further improve the position of these families and, ultimately, bring them to the same level with foster families that raise or healthy children or through specialised foster care of children distracted by development. Of course, every commendation is that the Committee has proposed, in collaboration with the Ministry, which is Article 94, which provided for a monthly refund for individuals or family members who have been raising children distracted in the development of their families for 15 years. It's about the hardest cases. It is at the level of the minimum pension that is now being received in Serbia. It's really nice that our Ministry of Social Policy and Labour is thinking this way. Once again, I express my satisfaction with the constructive contribution of this matter and with good cooperation. I thank you for your good co-operation, because we have come to these amendments with joint proposals and forces to improve this sphere of social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52361	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the title above members 44th and Article 44th. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52362	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, simply for the public's sake, I'd say why we skip this many amendments and don't explain them. In fact, everyone refers to a very similar thing, what I have already turned to here several times, that in some documents and in some laws in Serbia as a young person up to 26, up to 28, somewhere up to 30 years old. All these amendments suggest that this needs to be brought into line, precisely because of the application in real life. The moment someone calls upon one law, someone else will resist and bring down that verdict by saying that in another law it stands in one way or another. I beg you, and all those who propose laws here, please agree and say how old it is, simply because it will come to the question of law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52363	The 50th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52364	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal for this law draws really great attention not only to this House, among the MPs, but also to the public. We're getting word from people and believe they're seriously following what we're discussing here. I almost got a phone call from a gentleman from Baja Basta who asked me to ask how he and his family, as a disabled man, could live off 11,400 dinars. He says he is angry with representatives of the ruling majority who spoke about some additions in Belgrade, which are not, say, in Baja Basta. This was my duty to convey what the people are asking for. When it comes to this amendment, we have the same amendment to every draft law and every government representative, or government, each time has the same answer to this amendment. It is, in fact, that it has become the government's way of dealing with certain responsibilities that are exclusively the ministry's jurisdiction to transfer specifically to the minister. We insist that this is not in line, first of all, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but you do not continue to act on your own. Before I explain exactly what the Constitution says and look back on the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, here, specifically, you, Mr Ljajic, today when your colleague Bojan Djuric told you about hiring representatives of your party in the centres. You said there's a competition, there's a commission, or I don't know who's making that reception, and you're just signing those decisions. So, we're not questioning the way people in social work centres are employed, but the question is that you said you had nothing to do with it and that you're just signing it. You can't have anything to do with it and just sign it. I guess you know what you're signing, and you're not letting anyone cheat on you, you're gonna sign something you don't want to sign? This is just for the sake of illustrating our amendment. Also to illustrate our amendment – you recently, 15 days or not know how many days, performed the role of Minister of Health, on the proposal of Mr Cvetkovic. That's when you said publicly that you didn't think to be the Minister of Health because you're already the minister of one resistor, but, of course, you'll do what the Prime Minister says, and you'll pass on all the powers to the assistants. How can you do that now, transge-frang? Looks like this government can do it anyway. The question regarding this amendment is this: could you then do something that is in various laws that apply to the Ministry of Health, could you then perform as the law obliges you, as a minister, or did the Ministry have to do certain jobs and you as an authorized, as you said this morning, just sign it? I would now return to the amendment and to a concrete explanation. We, in amendment to article 50, are asking that he cannot have the authority to have a minister, but he has the Ministry. Now it doesn't matter at all what jurisdiction it is, the fact that the minister is an elder of the ministry, which is the authority of the administration. You say in your explanation that this amendment is not accepted for the reason that the wording of the bill is in accordance with the Law on State Administration, and we continue to draw attention to you that in that part of the Law on State Administration you are opposed to the Constitution. Because, Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "The affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration laid down by law." So, the ministries are the authorities of the state administration, ministers are the elders of the authorities. This is really a strict legal issue, which we talk about every time for public purposes. We do not expect you to accept this amendment because you would disrupt what is the practice of this government, but as a lawyer, I claim that our amendment is absolutely in line with the Constitution, contrary to your bill, which in this part does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52365	Mr. Ljajic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52366	I just want to explain the part about employment at social work centres and the competitions. On a concrete question about the selection of the Director of the Labour Inspectorate, I spoke about the whole procedure that was carried out, that the procedure was conducted within the framework of the Competition Commission of the Government, that it would call itself a competition, and that in the end, the minister only signed a decision on the election or possibly not to elect candidates. As for the director of the welfare center, the whole process is conducted at the level of local self-government. So they also choose to compete. In the end, the ministry only gives consent to whether the procedure is in accordance with the law. As for the election of workers at the social work centres, and that we want to hire, we can't, because it's done by the director as an authorized person, who also conducts the entire competition process. It is ours to determine whether they have the right to comply with the plan and financial opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52367	The nun Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52368	It wasn't our intention to enter that part, because it wasn't our remark, but here, when you explained it to us, I have to tell you that the Serbian Radical Party was recently part of the Cačak municipality and that we had a problem there because it was not possible to change, at the initiative of the local self-government, the director of the Social Labour Centre, whose entire coalition was not satisfied, and the internal coalition agreement was that someone from the Serbian Radical Party would come to the post of director. The problem was that in no way did the Ministry get the consent to call the competition and to do everything so nicely, according to the law, as you kindly apologized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52369	National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic first has a word. Your MP group has five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52370	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to so-called home accommodation and home accommodation users. As a parliamentary group of amendments, we asked that children up to three years must be accepted at home. You replied by not accepting the amendment, that it is possible only in exceptional cases, when health and other reasons warrant it, so that the amendment was rejected. I don't think we can have the rights of children who don't have parental ageing, Mr. Ljajic, and the president will agree with me, as he is head of the Children's Rights Task Force, to regulate fully this law. We need to regulate that area and regulate it legally, so-called foster families and those children's accommodations in the future, by a special law. What we're going to call him and what frame is going to cover everything, we're going to see, I believe, over the course of this year, when we're working intensively on a set of these laws that concern children's rights. What I want to open as a topic in this really short time today is foster families. According to that record, i.e. according to the data I found, at this point over 4,000 young people in Serbia are without parental ageing, and there may be more, and in Belgrade alone, a home for carefree children can receive about 300 young people. Now the question is, why isn't the state responding? Why, first of all, do media representatives not pay attention to this problem that is remarkable in our country? Because you know and see for yourself by the news headlines that this is happening not only because of domestic violence, because of the lack of care of parents, but that there are various social and other factors, that I do not enter into what Mrs. Djukić Dejanović's profession is, which is why these children can no longer stay in the family and simply call themselves children without parental ageing. I have to mention today one of the actions worth paying attention to in Serbia last year, launched by our celebrated swimmer Milorad Cavic; he organised an action for children without parental ageing under the slogan "Believe in Yourself". However, it did not have any greater public echo, in a positive sense, because neither the government nor the media are sufficiently interested in the problem. You can find more, Mr. Ljajic, by the so-called social networks, Facebook and Twitter, various associations that appeal to help children without parental ageing, than you will see, as a minister and as a citizen of Serbia, in some media, because it is not a matter of commercial character, but a serious problem in our society, which many other countries that seek to solve this model of the state of prosperity in an exceptional way. So today, I can't find any of the MPs in the hall, if they didn't take a special interest in this problem, who's going to name a woman or a couple from Serbia who have raised and accepted a hug, in their lap of those children who don't have parental ageing, and believe that there are many examples in Serbia. I don't want this opportunity, I don't have time, to apostrophe many families who have accepted this human work. However, they are simply not, I repeat, regulated in the country's legal system. On the other hand, they do not have the opportunity to have custody of these children, which in many other countries exists as a possibility after a certain period when it is seen that this family is responding to them, that they have socialised, that they accept this environment, that they have normal adulthood and normal education. But I believe that in this year, in the coming period, at least as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, that's part of our programme, when it comes to children and their social and health care, we will pay serious attention to this problem, which is a major problem in Serbia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52371	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52372	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 52 refers to the users of home accommodation. In point 2, you say: “A child under the age of three is not provided with home accommodation. ” Item 3, which we intervened on, says: “A child in Article 2 can be extremely provided for home accommodation if there are particularly justified reasons for this, with the child not being able to spend more than two months on accommodation, except on the basis of the consent of the Ministry of Social Protection. ” Believe us, we've had great doubts whether we're going to delete an entire member or just delete this part: "except on the basis of the consent of the ministry responsible for social protection". We've really been thinking for a long time, and we've broken down that we should delete the whole position 3, precisely because if it stays as it is written here, the child can't stay in the institution for more than two months, except on the basis of the minister's consent – it leaves space... Believe that we've actually seen cases where children stay for much longer than two months, and let them stay there permanently. I'm really afraid of those precedents, simply because there's a forgotten case going on that shocks each and every one of us when we meet there. On the other hand, it seems to me that it is good to regulate everything so precisely that we simply do not have a precedent, because the precedents are dangerous double – both for the Ministry and for whoever is the user of this service. The issue of foster families and biological families has also been raised. I need to say a few sentences on that subject. I think that foster care is a great project and that this project should be supported by all of us MPs, because four thousand youngsters have found refuge in the least restrictive space such as family, which gave them a chance to engage in the most painless and fastest possible life of real and normal society. But what this law lacks is greater help, primarily material, to a biological family. I really don't think that we should be putting into the same two things, that we shouldn't measure materially to help the foster care on the one hand and the biological family on the other hand, but I'm afraid that every user and every citizen who says, yes, they've got so much and so much money, they're going to measure these two things precisely by material help from the Ministry, or the State. That's why I'd like the Minister and the Ministry to find a way to help the biological family. It's a big thing that's put into law, it's a shift, a big deal, but also a biological family has to get more help from the Ministry. Otherwise, comparing these two things is twice dangerous; we don't have to react in such a way, but I'm afraid if it stays like this, in a material amount of both sides, anyone who has this law will say that the Ministry is pushing one at the expense of the other family, which shouldn't be the case, neither is the case. Anyone who understands what foster care is knows why the Ministry is helping in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52373	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52374	I have submitted an amendment to Article 55(1). Article 55 speaks of accommodations in shelters. With this amendment, I wanted to make sure that accommodation at the users' shelters is provided and that it is temporary accommodation, not as proposed by law, is short-lived. You have not defined the concepts in this bill, e.g. as short-lived. What's that period, whether three months, six months or three years? This is the experience from the shelter, and many people have stayed there for much longer than it takes, and they stay for a few years. As a result, we believe that social protection services are not effective and that they do not provide adequate care for the users found in these institutions. You have not accepted this amendment and have explained this by the fact that the proposed amendment does not achieve the purpose given in the light of the amendments. Now I've told you the purpose of this amendment. However, I do not understand why you did not accept this amendment with such an explanation. What is being imposed as the only rational opinion is that neither clarity nor precision characterise this bill. I must point out that the parliamentary group advocates using a clear and precise language in all proposals of the law. We believe that services are in poor quality shelters, that there are very few shelters, that one of the largest shelters is the one in Kumodraška, Belgrade, and in the local environments there and there. Services provided to users in institutions are not sufficiently capable of activating their potential, training them to live on their own, or improving the quality of life. The quality of care declines and due to the fact that certain institutions receive a much greater number of users than the intended normatives. That's how it is at this shelter in Kumodrashka. That's what I was saying in the principle debate. There's a capacity of about 132 beds. However, there are always more than 150 people and in rooms of 30 square meters sleeps 25 users. The expansion of this capacity has been talked about for years. Unfortunately, I've worked very often with these users, they live in very bad and unworthy conditions and, very importantly, they've been staying there for five, six years. That's what you, Mr. Minister, must know. That's why we wanted to prevent this amendment and in the future these people, who are sick, powerless, old, are adequately placed in another institution of social protection, which can provide better social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52375	Thank you. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. The government, the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 57. Does anyone want a word? The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52376	I accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52377	Thank you. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Balint Pastor. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52378	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58(1). In Article 58(1), you say: ‘Depending on the needs of users, social protection services can be provided simultaneously and combined with services provided by educational, health and other institutions’, which are referred to in the following text as ‘inter-sectoral services’. The amendment proposed that the word "can" be replaced with the word "must". We believe that the amendment solution is good, because it is imperative, thus preventing the possibility of abuse and discrimination. Otherwise, the whole law is full of some broad terms and inaccuracies. The proposed member of the law does not allow all users to meet the necessary needs in their immediate and living environment in an efficient and economic way. So far, the practice has confirmed that at local level, institutions are irrational and do not meet the real needs of users because they do not provide adequate social protection. Thus, a large number of users will continue to be deprived of education or healthcare services. Capacity for the accommodation of persons with disabilities, mentally underdeveloped persons, mentally ill persons are insufficient, territorial and functionally unavailable, and users are mostly placed in institutions at a large distance from the place of residence. The number of citizens who need support because of their psychophysical status is greater than those found in institutions; their rights are often threatened by the inability to meet existential and health needs in an adequate way. That's why we thought this amendment was good and that you should have accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52379	Thank you. National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52380	Our amendment proposes that in Article 60, which refers to socio-health institutions, in point 1, the word "specific" is replaced by the word "difficulty". The rules of nomotechnics oblige the legislator to use precise and complete terms that ultimately explain the concept of which they refer. Millions of Serbian citizens are on the verge of misery, their social and health status is not specific, but difficult. The state is obliged to do everything in its power to improve the difficult social and health situation of these citizens. Unemployment, poverty, misery, general suffering are significantly linked to health. Because of growing poverty, an increasing number of people face poverty daily. The wave of gatherings in Serbia is causing additional social and health problems. Users, because of their difficult, not specific, social and health conditions, have the need for social care and for continued health care or supervision in the framework of social and health institutions. The ministry, as a legislator of this law, does not want a concrete, precise definition of the social and health status of users. Due to the lack of family housing and an unbalanced network of foster families, which was mentioned, 40% of children without parental age are housed in institutions, and about 50% of children are out of their place of residence. Among these children are a large number of children with developmental disorders or other mental disorders, who are constantly in need of medical care. If you were able not to accept this amendment, there is nothing else I can do but conclude that you do not care to finally accept that a million Serbian citizens are living hard. I think it's still time for you to accept this amendment and realize that users, because of their difficult social and health conditions, rather than specific, need to set up a social and health care facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52381	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52382	We who have carefully read this law believe that there are certain indiscretions and inaccuracies in this article 68th paragraph that can lead to abuse and manipulation. We have submitted an amendment aimed at ensuring better protection of users of social security services. The amendment proposed adding the words "with proper documentation" after the word "face". By rejecting this amendment, this Article 68 remains deliberately unsettled. I still have to say this is about one very dangerous thing. Mr. Minister, in your statement, you stated that this is the system reform law we've been waiting for for 20 years. If you compare the chapter relating to the procedure for the use of social protection services, in particular the part relating to the jurisdiction to carry out the procedure, you will see that nothing has changed since 20 years ago, these are only cosmetic changes. In the 1991 Social Security and Social Security Act, the responsibility for the implementation of the procedure is regulated by two members, 49 and 50, and in this draft law, you have united the members into one article 68, and the text remains unchanged. How can you say this law is reform? I'm going to expand my discussion a little bit to other amendments, since everyone's in some kind of relationship. Social protection services in this bill are regulated by Article 50 and are divided into five groups. The fifth group of services refers to family accommodation, home accommodation, accommodation in shelters and other accommodations you have. The procedure for the use of these services is conducted by the Centre for Social Work, and the initiative, most importantly, can be initiated by any natural or legal person. What does this practically mean? It means that each one of us here, that every citizen of Serbia, from who knows what evil intentions, some natural or legal person can become the victim of this member and the letters of the law. You will normally argue, but you yourself know how many court proceedings are being conducted for trying to take someone's business ability, to move into a home, because he has an apartment, and a person who started the initiative to move into that apartment. This member is also dangerous because it can also be misused during divorces in the mutual conflicts of parents. The child is taken away by one parent, and the previous centre or court, most often by the court, but on a proposal from the Centre for Social Work and on a proposal from the experts, the other parent finds it unsuitable or even dangerous for the child. This article cannot be explained rationally unless you accept this amendment, and the explanation you have given is simply ridiculous, he says: “The amendment is not accepted. The applicant of the initiative cannot be obliged to submit the relevant documentation as well." How can he not? You are here to legally oblige him that when the initiative is launched, he must also file the relevant documentation, whether the person is ill and is therefore incompetent, whether the person is materially threatened, and therefore incompetent. So there's got to be some paperwork, not without anything to be submitted. That is why we, as a parliamentary group, had to submit this amendment, because this law had been in practice before, and it can now be the subject of abuse, manipulation – that judicial proceedings are being conducted for years, that people may be unsatisfactory. That is why we ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52383	Thank you. You've used your time as an authorised representative. The parliamentary group has two minutes left. The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 81st amendment was filed by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52384	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this is about an amendment relating to beneficiaries of the right to financial assistance. In the first text of this amendment, it may not have been best to formulate what we wanted, but I think that on the Committee, with an agreement with the Committee and your associates, we have done one formulation, broadly, which would be acceptable and said: “A member of the foster family will be considered a person with developmental disturbances in the foster family, based on the resolution of the custody body,” which is a general definition that covers all those persons, whether in the biological family or in the guardians, fosterers. Please accept this amendment based on what we have already spoken on the Committee, and with your associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52385	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52386	I accept this amendment with the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52387	Thank you. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52388	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the objective of this amendment was not to bid whether the right to social assistance can be achieved with half a hectare or a hectare of land owned by one; we simply want to point out that this government is running a very bad policy towards the village and farmers and that poverty in the country is much greater than it may seem to us and than the government itself is aware of. The government has literally led a catastrophic agrarian policy since 2008 since its founding. In all possible ways, it seeks to reduce the assets belonging to the agrarian, which belong to farmers, and they have been significantly reduced since 2008. In 2008, we had 4% of the budget that went on subsidies and aid to agriculture. That was about 27 million dinars, 312m euros. In 2009, we had a significant reduction in subsidies, first of all by a government decision that only farmers who regularly pay pension and social insurance have the right to grant per hectare. Based on this, a large number of small-scale agricultural households, which were unable to meet social and pension insurance obligations at that time, have come into a very difficult and invisible situation. We have a very large number of small households, with a small surface. I have the impression that, thanks to this policy of reducing the budget, reducing subsidies to farmers and agricultural production and, on the other hand, inflation, which is the largest in Europe, is the much worse position of farmers in Serbia, so the position of the Serbian Progressive Party was and remained that agriculture must be helped urgently. We have a large number of nursing homes and people who can't live out of that agricultural land, can't make an income that's enough to survive. When it comes to these restrictions introduced by this member of the law, they had to take much more care of these facts and to a much greater extent to be in favour of farmers. We have a member of Law 89, which allows the Government to prescribe monthly incomes for families and individuals by means of a method of determining the amount of income, including per hectare of processed land, and also to determine incomes and incomes that are not taken into account, so that it can correct, in any case, the possibility of obtaining social assistance and the height and the social assistance that is being achieved. Agriculture and farmers are both in need. So far, there has been no understanding by the government, and we have hoped that at least this way, by increasing the number of beneficiaries who have the right to social assistance (of course to make it concrete to the article 89), a large number of farmers will be able to gain the right to social assistance. Unfortunately, we had no understanding of the government. But that's also a broader story, a story about the agricultural policy of this government, which is disastrous. The consequences of this policy are seen in each of the 4,500 inhabited places where people live from agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52389	Members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Balint Pastor. The word is Miss Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52390	I am sorry that Mr. Minister has just come out, I hope he will return to my discussion. To announce that at the very beginning, I will use the time of the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been several problems related to the amendment submitted together by SVM MPs. For the public's sake, I'd like to point out that we have submitted an amendment to Article 82. On February 24th, just before 12:00 p.m., at 11:50 p.m.; that amendment was withdrawn at 13:45 p.m., but at the same time at 1:45 p.m., we submitted this amendment that I wanted to discuss. The bill that stands before us states that the right to financial and social assistance belongs to that individual, or family that has a land of up to 0.5 hectares. I would agree with the previous speaker, and I think that, regardless of party membership, we all agree that 0.5 hectares of the country is extremely small and that if it remains in this form, it is extremely strict and unfavourable to small agricultural land. Therefore, the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians are to increase this limit from 0.5 hectares to 1.5 hectares. In part, I agree with the government's reply that the individual who is incompetent to work and those families whose members are unable to work are already positively discriminated against, because in their case these 0.5 hectares were increased to one hectare in the proposal itself. Accordingly, our amendment states that then we increase this one hectare to two. We were sincerely hoping, and in the debate in principle, I emphasized that we would have an understanding of the government. Then a few days ago a government opinion came in. I must indeed commend both the co-workers and the minister for the extremely large number of amendments being accepted, but unfortunately, our amendment was neither accepted nor among those rejected. On the one hand, sometimes, I say this for the public, it can be good, because then you think the government might be thinking about accepting your amendment. But I am a member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and I have learned on the Committee that the amendment is problematic and that the Government has not discussed this amendment because, in the meantime, in the Government of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a memo has arrived that the amendment of the SVM MPs has been withdrawn. I would like to point out once again, since Mr. Minister has joined us, that our amendment, the one we are discussing, has not been withdrawn, and the government has not been informed about it, so the government has not discussed it. I hope we can get the answer from you personally now that this amendment has been accepted. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs eventually discussed this amendment. Unfortunately, regardless, it is interesting to me, as well as to all MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, and it may be one message, regardless of the fact that we agreed that 0.5 hectares is extremely small and should be increased – some have suggested to increase from 0.5 to one, most of us have proposed to 1.5, but for those unable to work from one to two, this has been proposed by many – on the Committee Members who had a similar amendment did not support my amendment. I wonder why? On this occasion, I would like to invite my fellow Members, first of all, Mr Minister, to accept this amendment, so that you can facilitate the work and fellow Members, regardless of party membership, to vote in favour of this amendment in the day of voting. I'm someone who lives in a small village, and even those who don't live in the country know that 0.5 acres is extremely little and that small agricultural holdings barely make ends meet. To rule them out, to take away their right to receive financial welfare is not fair to us, especially when we know that agriculture is our future, and unfortunately, we haven't proved it and proved it, so we hope that your ministry, Mr. Minister, will meet us at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52391	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52392	Just to explain why we can't accept this amendment, regardless of this argument. We do not deprive anyone of the right to social assistance, nor those who have half a hectare or those who have 50 acres, if they are to mortgage on that land they own. We're talking about half a hectare and a hectare for working. It's about the surface of a country that doesn't need to be mortgaged. So someone can have ten acres of land, use that land, lease that land, and receive money again, provided they put a mortgage on that land. If we were to accept this amendment, therefore, increase the country's area to one hectare or two hectares, as proposed, it would increase the coverage of the users and the entire financial structure that we are going with in this law would question the very application of the law and its adoption in this form. So, I don't think we should do anything to question a good law and its application, and we would really bring it in if we accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52393	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52394	I thank you for your answer. Yesterday, at the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, we discussed the mortgage. I'd like to point out, I've met with people who deal with agriculture and talk to them, they don't know that this possibility existed, but in the previous law; I think we should work together to promote legal solutions and check. Our work, in addition to our legislative work, refers to the control of the application of these laws. Farmers don't know about this possibility. They don't use it, no matter what it used to be in the previous law. So maybe your solution is good, and people don't know, people are unhappy and you should explain it to them. On the other hand, when I was talking about this law in principle, I said it wasn't great, but it was good, it was better than it was because it was expanding the circle of users. We all know that its adoption was delayed precisely because the previous budgets failed to provide enough financial resources for its application. I think that you, Mr. Minister, should fight, of course, along with all of us, when making a new budget for next year to pay attention to this circle of users, since we all know that social protection never has enough budget resources. It's a sad fact that the situation we live in, but there must be an increase in financial resources so that these people can be respected and helped, because indeed many are barely making ends meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52395	Thank you. The People's MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 82nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with corrections, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 84th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52396	For SNS, this is a purely principled thing. If anyone is in a state of social need, he is in a state of social need for twelve months a year. Making this difference between those who are capable of work and those who are incapable of work is quite inappropriate. It doesn't make you feel that a man can live normally, it's a few thousand dinars, and if it's legally arranged to have the right to do so, then there's no reason for it to be paid for only nine months, I think it's perfectly normal to pay for twelve months, because it's neither big nor normal life, it doesn't make any life possible. You put people in a very difficult situation during those three months when you leave them without any income. I am absolutely certain that no one is fighting for those five, six thousand dinars, but that this is just the way and the way to overcome the difficulties, the life problem that he currently has, most often it's a lack of work, and that this provision, this attitude of the law, is inappropriate and that it needs to be deleted from the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52397	Thank you. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been tabled with the aim of improving the social status of the most endangered layers of the population and, in that sense, increasing the amount from 6,050 to 6,500. We do not question the good intentions of the minister, unlike some of his other colleagues and the prime minister himself, but this is obviously a kind of pressure from the IMF, because the reason for the rejection of the amendments says that this is not in line with the budgetary possibilities. I want to say that even if there are parts of the government that have the best intentions and who want to improve the social position of our citizens and the most endangered layers of the population, they are not able because the economic policy and policy of this country is being run by the EU and the IMF. I'm going to give you a concrete example, and this example could be a proposal so that there could be additional funding in the budget for these most vulnerable layers of the population. You must know that the EU Association Office has received an increase in funding this year by 100% or over 1 million euros. We think it is inappropriate for the so-called Brussels bureaucracy to increase in this difficult economic situation, while there is no money for the sick, old and threatened. So it's kind of our proposal, which is in the context of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52399	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 87th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52400	Under the bill, the cash compensation aimed at protecting the poorest citizens of Serbia is called monetary social assistance. The amount and method of determining financial social assistance shall be defined by Article 88. For the individual, i.e. for the rightholder in the family, is at the height of foundation 1 (exports 6,050 dinars), and for a child up to 18 years - of a base height of 0.3% (when we turn it into dinars, that is, about 2,000 dinars). For us, this was unacceptable, and therefore we submitted an amendment to Article 88(1) point 3 where we suggested that the number 0.3 be replaced by 0.4. The amendment has been rejected and the government's explanation for me is completely unclear, unacceptable and, I could say, ridiculous. He says: “The proposed solution would not reflect the real difference in the consumption of adults and children. ” How could you not? If an adult receives 6,050 and a child of 2,000 dinars, that means that difference exists. If the coefficient increased from 0.3 to 0.4%, the child would receive much more. You know that in Serbia, about 150,000 children are the most endangered category of the population, that 6,500 live on the people's cuisine, and that literally every other child in the Roma population is starving. That is why we believe that you should accept this amendment because nothing that is given to children is excessive, and that within the budget you certainly have the opportunity to at least help this endangered category of population. Poverty, or inability to feed children properly, leads to mental and physical impediment in the development of children. This is what research has shown: for example, children from the Roma population in 23% of cases have some developmental disorders, and children from the poorest households in 17% of the cases are disturbed in development. Also, malnourished children have problems developing intelligence, even in further education. That is why we believe that you should reconsider and perhaps accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52401	Thank you. The 88th Amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliament of Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 93rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 94 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 94. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52402	We accept this amendment from the Committee. I want to say that this was one of the most common remarks that came from the Assembly, by the Association of Persons with Disabilities and by some other NGOs. In fact, the observation was that we favor foster families compared to biological and natural families. By accepting this amendment, not only are we equating the position of foster and biological families... We felt that according to current solutions, biological and natural families had the support, assistance and incentives of the state, but this amendment foresees that one of the parents who has not been in a working relationship, who for at least 15 years directly nurtures their child who has obtained the right to an increased allowance for the assistance and care of the other person, in terms of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, has the right to special financial compensation in the light of the life of the monthly minimum pension in the insurance of employees, when he has completed a general age condition for fulfilling his pension according to pension rules on pension and disability insurance. Without a doubt, this is a revolutionary solution. We have used the experiences of some other countries in the region, where similar solutions have been introduced, but they have experienced, I must say, observations and difficulties in realisation. This is a compromise, which is financially and economically sustainable on our part, and it is socially fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52403	Thank you, Minister. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 95th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52404	Article 103 - Appeal against solutions. What the SNS remark is is that these complaints, when it comes to the AP Vojvodina, are being resolved by the province's authority of the administration responsible for social protection, and when it comes to the city of Belgrade, the city's administration of Belgrade is being resolved, while Serbia's interior is being handled by the Social Protection Ministry. It seems to us that this solution is inappropriate. We are fully aware that the AP Vojvodina has some competences and we can accept this part of the reasoning of the Republic government and the Ministry, but this second part, when it comes to Belgrade's city administration, certainly does not stand because this solution is contrary to some of the principles advocated by the SNS, which is that decentralisation, when it comes to the area of social protection, can create very big problems and uncoordinated and unequal social protection at Serbia's level. We have a big difference in development between municipalities across Serbia and if the burden of social protection is passed on to municipalities, we believe that this will cause further migration, that it will significantly affect the standard of our citizens and that our citizens will not be equal before the law. It is completely inappropriate for these problems, possibly complaints, happening in Belgrade's territory not to be resolved by the Ministry; I say, and Belgrade is part of the Republic of Serbia and there is no reason to leave the authority of the Belgrade city administration when it comes to these complaints because the procedure itself and the way in which these complaints will be resolved will be different from the solutions offered by the Ministry of Social Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52405	Thank you. The 104th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52406	In Article 111, I suggest that the word "must" be replaced by "must" in Article 111. This member handles other kinds of material aid that local self-governments can foresee in their territory, which includes folk cuisine, subsidies and others. As planned, decentralisation is the second level of social protection provided in local self-government. In view of the catastrophic economic situation in Serbia, which existed before the economic crisis and which is not the end of it, and other types of material aids listed in this article must exist at the level of local self-government. If local self-government were rich, this member of the law could be accepted, but in our case, all governments since 5 October have done their best to develop only large centres, and the rest of Serbia have not even existed for them. They were remembered only in pre-election campaigns, as they are now allegedly developing regions, and that is exactly what those who have contributed most to their poverty do. Local Self-Government, i.e. The municipality, is the first step on which the citizen meets his state apparatus and his country. If it cannot satisfy the least of the kinds of social assistance a society can provide, which is one meal a day from the soup kitchen, then this debate becomes pointless. According to official data, Serbia's so-called It feeds some 40,000 citizens to their cuisines, and by off-the-book the number is up to 70,000. The budget of the poorest municipalities, which are officially over 40, is insufficient to finance the existence of folk cuisine in their territory without talking about some of the subsidies mentioned in this article. In addition, due to the reduction of transfer funds by municipalities by the Republic government, some municipalities were forced to close their national cuisines. The existence of rudely wealthy people has led to more than 700,000 citizens living on the border or below the poverty line in Serbia. Thus, on the scale of the transition, 5-10% of the winners of the transition touch the “top of economic success”, while so on. The loss of transition finds on the air a wave of illusions that liberal capitalism will bring them a much better life. Because of the number of poor citizens and worrying information that their number is on the rise of local self-government, they must ensure the existence of folk cuisine, subsidies and other aspects of material assistance to the endangered population. Since there are no international generally accepted standards in the field of social protection, as the minister told us in the principle debate, other than the example of good practice, and good practice in our case is the existence of folk cuisines, they must exist in local self-governments, and not – they can, as you stated in Article 111.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52407	Thank you, Mrs. Plecevic. About this amendment, Mr. Petronievich? Here you go. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52408	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I would like to speak precisely about this amendment, if I do not interfere. If I were politically determined, I would accept that any local self-government must provide for other types of material assistance compared to those provided for by the law, but I want to clearly support here the government's definition, which says that any unit of local self-government can do so in view of budgetary possibilities. So if the local self-government unit has budget options, it should do it. I also claim that any unit of local self-government can find the opportunity to do so and I have just reported that I would once again set an example for Belgrade. I have cited in principle the example of Belgrade, that a local self-government can out of those already envisaged services it should provide additional types of assistance: pensioners with small incomes, pregnant women, maternity services, subsidies for municipal services. It's over a hundred thousand families, or residents. Four billion stands out for it. I'm saying it's a positive example. There's been word here today that it's a pre-election campaign. This has nothing to do with the pre-election campaign because in Belgrade it seems from the moment this government is formed; that it is done today, so come on. And that it takes political will and information to say that by 2008 there was another government in Belgrade and did not single out any of what I was talking about. So, I want us not to be unfair to Belgrade, which is doing everything possible to help citizens, above all the most vulnerable citizens in Belgrade, and for which it has political will and responsibility towards them, and to call on all the local self-governments who can do it without political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52409	On Article 112, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52410	Article 112 item 2 -- the Serbian Progressive Party has proposed to delete because it is cynicism, I would also say the government's impudence. When the state needs to collect something from citizens, it does not choose funds; if necessary, it will take apartments, it will send them to prison, but when it has to pay what is due to the taxpayers, or to the citizens of Serbia, it then finds a way to bypass it. This Article 2 states that monetary income under this law cannot be subject to forced enforcement. So unless the state pays off its money obligations to citizens who have the right to social assistance, they can't reach their resources through the executing institute. Those who are the poorest, those who receive several thousand dinars of some kind of social assistance, some belongings, for which these funds are a question of existence, cannot be elected in court for the rights they have and for the funds that the state owes them. But that's why the state administration will receive the salary in time, so we MPs every 5th and 20th in time to receive our salaries, so public enterprises will receive salaries in time, and only those who cannot organize themselves can't get out on the streets will be the victims of this government and this system. It's something that's inappropriate for the SNS. We think this amendment to the Serbian Progressive Party is good and needs to be adopted. I also believe that for this amendment we should have the support of all colleagues, regardless of whether they are in power or opposition, because this is a matter of principle and a matter of morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52411	The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 124. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52412	We accept this amendment to the Committee, in paragraph 1, of course, as set out in the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52413	The word has a National MP, Daniela Lovrin Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52414	I thank the Minister for accepting this amendment. Even in the debate in principle, when I was talking about this law, I said that the law was good and that, of course, MPs of the Democratic Party and I would vote for this law. It is good because by passing this law, we will provide more money for more socially endangered persons and better quality social services. By adopting a large number of amendments, you have shown good will to make this law even better. Of course, it is good that you have accepted this amendment of the Committee concerning the appointment of the Director of the Social Labour Centre. In fact, the proposal for this law stated that only people with a proper profile who had five years of working experience in social protection can be appointed directors of the Centre for Social Work. I think it's a good thing that you accepted the amendment of the Committee that says that the directors of the Centre for Social Work can be people of an appropriate profile with a working experience, five years of work experience in the profession. This way we open up social protection institutions, we don't close the social protection system. We will provide better quality services for social security users, which is, of course, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52415	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment to Article 127. There's no answer for word. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 127. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52416	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52417	The amendment has been accepted. I thank the minister. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic to Article 133. No one's answering for a word. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 133. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52418	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52419	Thank you, Minister. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 146th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52420	As for Article 146, only briefly, the way the evaluation and evaluation criteria, professional advancement and the award of professional workers must be part of the ministry's work. It cannot be given to local self-government, to prescribe what they consider. It must be unique for the level of the entire Republic. That is the position of the Serbian Progressive Party and that is why we have been defined to submit this amendment. As it stands, each one for himself, whether professional or not, will be able to prescribe some basic criteria guaranteeing the quality of social protection. We believe that this is inappropriate and that all the instructions, all the regulations must be applied throughout Serbia's territory and that the ministry should take responsibility for anything relating to the social protection arrangement in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52421	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 179 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 206. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52422	We accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-23-0.u52423	Thank you, Minister, for accepting the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 216. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Article 216 of the correction amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who was accepted by the government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 217. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment to Article 218. No one's answering for a word. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is what we've done today's work. I thank the minister and his associates, as well as the MPs who participated in the work. The sequel is tomorrow, March 24th, at 10.00; first it is the right to ask questions and to ask for information, and then we are considering the law on sports in particular. Mr. Prime Minister of Russia should be in the National Assembly within the hour. I hope we don't all split up and there'll be someone to greet him and say hello. Thank you.
