ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63712	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 76 MPs, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the electronic voting system, I ask Members of Parliament to place their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, 86 MPs have inserted their identification cards into MPs and that another number of MPs is present in the National Assembly Hall. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: President of the National Assembly Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, MPs: Momo Colaković, Sinisa Stamenkovic, Esad Djudjevic, Vitomir Mihajlovici Zoran Nikolic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly President, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for today's session to attend, as representatives of the promoter: Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister Nebojsa Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. Also, in addition to the National Assembly President, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic called for the sittings to be attended by: Miodrag Miljković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Tanja Misčević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Branislav Zec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Pavle Galić, Dragan Jovanovic and Radoslav Tomašević, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, Milan Josipovic and Ljiljana Juver, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Nebojsa Pokimica, Assistant Minister of the Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Nebojsa Starcevic and Aleksandra Potparević, from the Director of Civil Aviation of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Radulović, Secretary of Defence Ministry, Minister of the Ministry of Defence, Minister of the Republic of Education and Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Economy, Minister for the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to work and move on to a common and unique search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 10 to 19 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts under points 10 to 19 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, so that the MP group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, and with the order of the MPs, since the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly oblige us to do so, which is in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure, and before we open a search point that's on the agenda. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Dejan Mirovic, the SRS parliamentary group. If any other MPs want to have the authority of one of their representatives, please inform us of that, so that we can inform the National Assembly. According to Articles 170 and 157, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Maritime Privileges and Hypothets, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on International Transport of Infringable Goods and Special Means for Their Transport, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia Kuwait, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Co-operation in the Area of Defence and the Status of their Forces, Proposal for a Law on Law on Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in the area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the Republic of Serbia on the Security of Serbia's Security and the Republic of Serbia's Security of Serbia's Security and the Republic of Serbia's Law on the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia. Before I ask the speaker's representative, Minister Milutin Mrkonjic if he wants a word, on the basis of Articles 90th and 87th, I am informing the MPs that today we will be doing a point of the agenda a unique search at points 10 to 19, which has just been opened. When we complete a single search on these nine points of the agenda, a regular one-hour break will be set and in the afternoon part of the session, after the break, we will do a search in particular on the Rehabilitation Law proposal, and if necessary, after 1800 hours, and by the end of the search in particular, i.e. the amendment to the Rehabilitation Law. I'm sorry, the break will be given after we've done point 20. The word has a minister, Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63713	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly refer the first four laws. The Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Maritime Privileges and Mortials was adopted in 1993. The adoption of the International Convention on Maritime Privileges and Mortials is the result of the need to achieve uniformity in maritime mortgages and privileges at international level. The main objective of the Convention is to improve the conditions under which loans for the purchase of ships are granted, by introducing a system that will allow for the most effective protection of mortgage creditors. The Convention makes the difference between the two maritime privileges regimes: pre-hypothecary privileges, which lie ahead of mortgages and post-hypothecary privileges. In relation to post-hypothecary privileges, the Convention adopts the general principle that they continue on the basis of the law, at the time of the creation of the claim itself. Also, the convention adopts the principle that the privileges follow the ship, into whatever hands the ship has crossed. The law under regular number 11 on the confirmation of the Agreement on the international transport of easily corrupt foods and special means for their transport. The agreement on the international transport of easily corrupt foods and special means of transport consisted of on September 1st 1970 in Geneva, published in "SFRJ Official Messenger", number 50/76. Under UNICEF, there is a working group for road transport of the Economic Commission for Europe whose task is to improve and improve international road transport of passengers and freight in terms of increasing safety, i.e. formulating regulations that regulate a certain issue of work in international road transport, as well as measures to respect them. The Working Group for the Transport of Lightly Vulnerabilities, the Committee for Internal Transport of the Economic Commission for Europe of the UNEC, has drawn up amendments to the agreements and its annexes, proposed by the draft law at this time, equating the conditions that must be met when carrying out international transport of easily corrupt foods. The third law, under regular number 12 -- an air traffic agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Kuwait, was signed during a visit by the President of the Republic of Serbia to Kuwait on 10 April 2011. Mr. Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and Mohamed Albusari, Minister of Communications and State Minister for Affairs of the National Assembly. The conclusion of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Kuwait is a step forward in the relations of the two countries, as the modern agreement is in line with the modern trends in international civil aviation, which in general regulate air traffic relations between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Kuwait and promote and meet high international standards. Also, this agreement creates wider opportunities and is a solid foundation for long-term successful co-operation, both for foreign contractors and other facilities and entities in the overall economic movements between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Kuwait. The state of Kuwait belongs to a group of states that have adopted an open sky policy in bilateral relations in the area of air traffic. Fourth law - An air traffic agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia, signed in Belgrade on 4 April 2011. The conclusion of the Agreement confirms the long-term legal basis for conducting direct air traffic between the two countries and linking that traffic to other destinations. The agreement is in line with the modern trends in the regulation of relations in international traffic and individual elements of the agreement are air carrier's rights in respect of air traffic performance, the conditions under which such rights can be used, including the conditions for determining air carriers and conditions for granting approval and suspending or withdrawing them, air safety standards and air security in the air, the obligations of application of laws and regulations, conditions for mutual recognition of authorisations and assurances, basic principles on which air traffic is based and the conditions under which aircraft carriers of one side carry commercial activities on the territory of the other side, the opening of representation, sale of documents, conversions, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63714	Do they want the word of the committee of directors? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? MP Dejan Mirovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63715	Ladies and gentlemen, it's nine draft laws, mostly conventions and ratifications of the agreement. We believe that in this sense there are related issues which and only the Minister's presentation today tell us that they are difficult to connect, because he was talking about the first four laws. However, here we also have some laws that are related to some other ministries and we do not see why other ministers have not, as Mr Mr Mrkonjic, come here and shown some kind of respect for the National Assembly, because we think there would be a lot of words about this agreement in defence with France which, however, you will admit, is a little unusual in this situation that we have in our southern province and a kind of tension that has been generated and by the very state that needs to sign the Agreement on co-operation in the security structure, i.e. In the military area, and that's France. We believe that these first four laws are connected, and we believe that, especially from our point of view, from the point of view of one party that is absolutely against entering the EU, not only because it is political reasons, but also economic, legal and all, it is very interesting that we have in the procedure one law that confirms, as the Minister said, the 1993 Convention. We in that sense, i.e. The SRS economic team has tried to reach the purpose of the agreement, to see what it can specifically mean, what its applicability is in the current circumstances in the Republic of Serbia. After an analysis of this proposal for a law on the Convention, we believe that it can be linked to the Law on Maritime Navigation, it can be linked to the EU questionnaire, where we see that in one part, more specifically in the title of the International Organisation and the Convention, page 157 mentions just maritime traffic. Following a presentation by the authorities on the Law on Maritime Navigation, which we believe is specifically related to this Convention, we have come to the conclusion that there can be no other word but one fact that Serbia is trying to attract the entry of foreign ships into the register, so-called. It's a register where we could get some kind of fleet. We think that's the basic purpose of ratification, besides the one mentioned by the minister, this convention. However, the fact is that we cannot run away from it, that simply after 2006 Serbia lost its way out to the sea, i.e. We lost about 200 kilometers of seashore and that is the fact that it is currently a law that is inadmissible and that it is a law that could be far more adequate for a country that has access to the sea, which has a naval fleet. Of course, you'll say that there are countries that, although they don't have access to the sea, like Austria, have a naval fleet. That's true, and we know Austria does, if I'm not wrong about the fleet of seven ships. However, they are in a much better position than we are and we do not see that Serbia will eventually be able to buy ships and create a fleet. In that sense, we again come to what we consider to be the purpose of the Law on Maritime Navigation, which is to attract enrollment in the register of foreign shipowners. However, it will be very difficult to go, I think it is clear to you, not only because of the invisible economic situation that has led us to the EU, but also because of the fact that much stronger countries, countries that have the largest commercial fleets in the world are in crisis, and you know for sure, it is a common example that it is primarily about a country that is in our region, which is Greece. I'm sure you know the ministers that Greece has one of the largest commercial fleets in the world, that they have about 2,500 merchant ships, that they have a long and strong tradition and that they have one serious part of the market in this area. However, precisely because of meeting some standards in other areas, primarily in the financial sphere, in the area of meeting EU standards, Greece is now in a position not to make huge revenues from the commercial fleet. on what is behind this proposal for ratification i.e. The increase in revenues from the commercial fleet and, of course, tourism do not have the opportunity to avoid bankruptcy declared after the Government of Papandreou's shift. So it is, however, one fact that I do not dispute your good intentions with regard to the ratification of this law, but we believe that it is simply inapplicable and that Serbia has neither the means nor the possibilities, precisely because of this European road which is such a strong sea force, such as Greece, has put into a position that neither huge revenues, you know that an 8-10 million dollars a year can be made from a merchant ship. They have come into the position that they are on the bankruptcy line and precisely because of their debt to the two most important EU members, according to Germany and France, and you know for a fact that they owe them $50 billion of credit and that it is basically this bankruptcy. And also, if this is about one unfulfilled bill that shows us other data, it shows us the data that is related to each other so-called. The European law applicable here as a minority of the Holy Scriptures, which is the Law on State Aid Control, which will, in particular, lead to the collapse of our industry, shipyards, and we can state it again as in the case of Greece, can also give an example of Croatia. Croatia which, in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the process, had the condition to apply this law on State aid control, which has led to the fact that Croatia that once had several shipyards, which were known in the world, is now on the verge of bankruptcy and as far as we know, only this shipyard in Pula has the opportunity to work as normally, while in Rijeka and other cities it is a factical disaster and precisely because of the standards that are applied by the EU. I'm going to give you another example that shows that the law is unrealistic and that, despite your likely good intentions to lead to progress in this area of industry, which you certainly know, the most famous shipyard in Europe, which is what in Gdnjask, Poland, which is precisely because of these EU standards regarding state aid control law, came to the brink of bankruptcy and on the edge of total shutdown, however, for some political reason, because of some connection with the past, with some movements such as solidarity, has not been extinguished. But precisely because of the suspension of subsidies, because of these EU standards and in that country, the shipyard is practically a step towards destruction. So we believe that it is simply not realistic to create a naval fleet at the moment at which the Republic of Serbia is located, it is not realistic to launch our industry in shipbuilding and this is a fact that shows us that the law that needs to be confirmed by this Convention is inapplicable. I will give you another example that confirms our position and confirms the view of the SRS that the EU as an economic project is bad for Eastern European countries, bad for the Western Balkan countries, and you certainly know that as someone who has worked in the economy for a long time, "Yugookeania" from Kotor. You know that while Montenegro has already won the candidacy they can't actually start their own economy and the situation is getting worse and worse, not only because of the combination of aluminum but also because of the commercial fleet that it once had, in that old Yugoslavia, about 25 ships, and now it's down to eight, of those eight ships, as many as four have been practically seized for debt. So, the candidacy will bring us nothing in this sphere or in this matter regulated by this convention that needs to be confirmed in this House. So this is about some data that have nothing to do with any political acuity, but simply about data that tell us that the unification or good intentions that may exist in the ministry will not be enough because of one general context that exists and that comes down to the doggue that the EU has no alternative. In this area where this maritime navigation convention is to be ratified, we have no chance precisely because of the EU standards that have practically brought in and I will repeat these four examples again, Greece which had the largest commercial fleet on the edge of bankruptcy, destroyed Croatian shipyards, destroyed the fleet in Montenegro. So these are the facts and these are the facts that tell us that this ratification is factually inapplicable even though it is mentioned in the EU questionnaire, although it is related to the Law on Maritime Navigation because simply EU standards, and we will repeat it again, are bad for the Republic of Serbia in all areas of the economy as well as in this area. In addition to this ratification, it is of course very interesting for us and this air traffic agreement with Armenia and we believe and that we support you to develop good relations with that country. Not only because of the historical and cultural ties that exist, but also because of one kind of economic, cultural and any other co-operation. However, by studying this agreement, we have come to a footnote, part of an agreement where it is called on, more specifically, it is being put into the framework of an agreement, collocchially called, an open sky agreement with the European community, today's EU from 2006. As far as the legal part of the agreement is concerned, there is nothing in general because it does not recognise the legitimacy of the quasi state of Kosovo, however, of course after two years and during the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in particular 22 EU countries have fully applied the other method and have recognised through several unilateral recognitions, so more than two-thirds of the countries have recognised so-called. Kosovo, therefore, is the EU in only two years, the European Community has changed the principle of signing the contract, the principle of interpretation of the contract. But what is important for this topic and what is disturbing to us and again shows that our economic policy is right, that the EU is bad in economic and in any other sense for Serbia, is calling for the Open Sky Agreement. Why do you know that, and so did the former minister in your area, it is that this Open Sky Agreement that this agreement with Armenia is called upon restricts the possibility of further progress by our air carrier, to be concrete in saving air carriers from bankruptcy that are pushing him among other things and EU standards. What exactly is this about? You know for sure, it's public information, it's no secret that in 2007, one serious, best, and at that moment an acceptable offer by the Areo Fleet to buy JAT, where the fleet would be restored, where all the employees would be left and where they would enter into the system of an air carrier that is more than perspective and there are many opportunities to develop lines towards all parts of the world. What happened and it's no secret, that's what the former minister here was saying and it's out in public. It is precisely because of the respect of the agreement, under quotes, on the open sky with the European community, today's EU, that we have come in a position to simply put pressure on the European Commission before signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that the Republic of Serbia at that time gives up the only rescue for the national air carrier. It is a fact that we are told that every agreement with the EU including this Open Sky Agreement, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and including the Accession Treaty, is only bad in economic terms for the Republic of Serbia, rather than today the Serbian air carrier in co-operation with such a powerful company as the Aero Fleet, we have today the fact that the Serbian air carrier must take loans to save from bankruptcy and wonder, from which, by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This tells you about the EU's true intentions towards the Republic of Serbia, which is bringing bankruptcy to the border in all areas, in maritime navigation, in air traffic and in industry at all. So it's about one disturbing piece of information. We noticed that in agreement with Armenia. Although we are in favour of co-operation with the country, we believe that this agreement will only be in the context of a general agreement on the open sky, conditioned. His applicability will, not like the previous agreement I was talking about, i.e. Convention, not entirely inapplicable, but conditional. These are facts that cannot be escaped and which say that all these ratifications are simply conditioned by the dogmoma that the EU has no alternative that is more than harmful to us in economic terms. We regret that the Minister of Defence is not here and we regret that we have not heard his arguments about this agreement with France in the field of defence which we also think is more than just inapplicable as these two agreements and ratifications we have talked about, but is also harmful in every sense. We will give you several concrete examples showing that this agreement is harmful and will not bring about an improvement in the security and military situation in Serbia. If the minister were here, he would have made an argument that the same French co-operated with Russia and simply bought aircraft carriers. This is a fact, but we can give you another example that shows that co-operation between such a powerful country as France in the sphere of defence and one country as we are, which has serious problems not only because of the occupation of 15% of the territory but also because of the fact that this security sector is managed as only one vector, i.e. to NATO, which is also normal when it is seen that Serbia is intended to join the EU and accept the Lisbon Treaty, which is a kind of EU constitution, where Article 42 literally says that Serbia i.e. Each Member State must bring its policy into line with NATO's pact policy in this sphere. So it is about facts that cannot be avoided with certain phrases that we are as neutral, but EU membership is also related to NATO membership. What do we want to set as an example? The current example is the case of Libya. I'm sure you know that, in addition to the fact that the Russian Federation has written off four billion dollars of military debt to them in the military industry, they tried to sign an agreement with France that creates a kind of military co-operation here and they tried to make several contracts in a row size 10 billion dollars in the military industry, or, as far as this agreement is concerned, the area of which this agreement is speaking. You know how it all ended, so I don't list the general known, dreary and monstrosity details. It is a fact that every normal and serious government is saying that with such partners, such as France or the EU, in general, the least of all should be cautious. We think that's why this agreement, not only because it's about the fact that an agreement is being concluded with a single country that participates in one quasi of legal and violent behaviour on 15% of our territory, but with a country that cannot be a credible partner and that shows all the examples that we have cited. So there are several agreements between which there is no direct link. We regret that there are no other ministers who have not found, unlike you, the time to come here to this Parliament and to give us an argument, without a sharpness, without inviting us to so-called. The phrase that the EU has no alternative, why we should vote for these agreements. Of course, we will not vote because we believe that all these agreements are either inapplicable or more than harmful to the economic, legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, both these agreements and these seemingly unrelated points, more precisely these nine points show us one concrete, accurate and general verifiable fact that the European path and the EU are more than a bad choice for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63716	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right to the Rules of Procedure, to take the floor in this part of the session? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right in this part of the session, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4), it is appropriate to apply its right to this part of the sitting. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search of the application for a word in writing, have been submitted by the SRS parliamentary group with the order of MPs. We move to a part of the session where the right to speak is given by MPs, and according to the order and according to the application for a word in the joint single search of the proposals for the law in paragraphs 10 to 19 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Ljubisa Petkovic, followed by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will focus my discussion on military co-operation agreements signed by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. The agreements the government signed with Montenegro in April 2010 at the Batajni airport in Belgrade and France in Paris in April 2011 represent the continuity of issuing Serbian national interests, following the signing of a military co-operation agreement with Croatia, Turkey and other countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence or are members of the world's largest criminal organisation -- the NATO Pact. The truth is, Montenegro is not yet a NATO pact member, but according to Defence Minister Bora Vucinic and Chief of Staff Dragan Samardzic, it is only a matter of days when Montenegro will become a NATO member. Since all states joining NATO were obliged to destroy their own army, the rule also applied to Montenegro so that it could not defend its own territory. That's what the "Plase of the Public" under the title "Destroy the Army and You Can Join NATO" wrote about. Here's one of the examples. To get Bulgaria into NATO, it was forced to lift the command of operational forces, special operations command, eastern and western command of land forces, tactical aviation command, air defence command, and to reduce the number of members of the armed forces. To join the criminal organisation, Montenegro is allowed to have a maximum of 2,400 soldiers, so Montenegro today has 410 officers, 898 sub-offices and 782 soldiers under contract, with 310 civilians. In order to show its loyalty to the NATO Pact, Croatia would have to send another 5,600 new troops, representing almost half of Croatia's armed forces fighting for US interests and Serbia would be obliged to place half of its troops at the disposal of the criminal NATO alliance or, to be precise, 13,000. The same is true of Montenegro, which will have an obligation to direct around 900 troops in NATO-led war operations, which also represents half of the military potential and operational personnel. I ask you, with what half of Serbia is making an agreement on co-operation in the defence area with Montenegro, are those 900 soldiers who will be sent to NATO or 800 soldiers who will be in Montenegro? The Serbian Radical Party is against the agreement primarily because the Mil Djukanovic regime has recognised independence, so-called. the countries of Kosovo. Moreover, according to Montenegrin Defence Minister Bora Vucinic, Montenegro sent the first contingent of 67 soldiers to Afghanistan in March 2010 to fight in NATO-led war operations, and the SRS believes Serbia must remain a military neutral country. I'd also like to remind you of the statement by US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, who published RTS. Robert Gates asked the countries of Southeast Europe to send as many troops to Afghanistan as possible to deal with the rebels there. I'm just wondering whose rebels are these? What do we have to do with these rebels? Serbia-Montenegro should not participate in these things. In addition, by joining NATO, Montenegro will have an obligation to place NATO forces at the disposal of bases in Bar and Danilovgrad. According to the SOFA agreement, US soldiers are given the right to stay in Montenegro on the burden of the so-called. Montenegrin states, in which they will be able to do what they will without being accountable for their misdeeds. Ladies and gentlemen, since coming to the power of Milo Djukanovic, Montenegro is not the same as we knew until 15 years ago. Nor France with which Minister Sutanovac signed an agreement on military co-operation, is it the same, which was our ally in the past. The reminders work, France was one of the founders of the NATO Pact in 1949. when the French president, General Charles de Gaulle, during the 1960s that NATO is turning into a criminal organisation, that the United States wants to dominate the pact and that France should not comply with the US orders that threaten its security, France stepped out of the NATO Pact in 1966 and forced NATO to leave the capital of France that was based at that time and moved from Paris to Brussels. The then official policy of France has publicly accused the United States of waging unnecessary wars in which France refuses to participate. In line with that, Charles de Gaulle, the French army of the Indokino war, which she lost with the great and vain victims. Directly ahead of the NATO pact, Charles de Gaulle said France would not participate in new wars for other people's interests. It's the Franciscan I know. As Nikola Sarkozy arrived as president in May 2007, France returned to NATO after 43 years in 2009, and I no longer recognise France as a friend of the Serb people, who uninterruptedly participates in unnecessary wars and struggles for other people's interests. The SRS is absolutely against an agreement in defence co-operation with any member of the NATO Alliance, especially because the leading role in the criminal organisation is taken by the United States, which has committed unremembered war crimes for which they have never been held accountable. I'll remind you of just a few examples, that I'm not going back in the long run. During World War II, Americans committed a terrible crime, dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima, where 253,000 people were killed by radiation injuries in August 2007. More than 143,124 people died in Nagasaki. In both cases, civilians, women and children were killed. Between 1950 and 1953, in the Korean War, the Americans left three million victims, mostly civilians. In the longest war America has fought in Vietnam, the number of victims is devastating for humanity. Four million Vietnamese were killed. I say again, unfortunately, more than 60,000 American soldiers have died. In Indonesia, in the war of 1965-1968, there were about a million deaths, again, mainly civilian casualties. In the US bombing of Cambodia during 1969-1970, 600,000 peasants were killed, and all the total war that lasted until 1975, about two million dead, etc. In neighboring Laos, tape bombs were used by Americans to sow death and kill and mutilate about 20,000 people a year. In the Iraqi-Kuwait conflict when America intervened against Iraq, at least 100,000 Iraqi soldiers were killed. That's not all, the Americans and the British have shortened their equipment and expertise in decontamination of the battlefield, resulting in a large number of malignancies. On that occasion, Americans bombed and destroyed all drug factories in Iraq, banned the import of humanitarian aid, and in particular medical devices, chemo drugs, diphtheria, jaundice and other infectious diseases, justifying their moves that chemical weapons can be produced with these drugs and preparations. The waste that the Americans left in Iraq during the Gulf War is for the condemnation of all mankind. Of the 500,000 dead children, 250,000 is under five years old. The total balance of the Gulf War is over a million victims, mostly the civilian population. Because of my time at my disposal, it's hard to list today all the wars and crimes committed by American soldiers throughout the West. For the sake of the public, I have to say that the United States bombed 23 states after World War II. One of these attacks, according to the French journalist, was on 11 September 2001 on the towers of twins in New York, which some experts claim were the result of internal preparation, with the aim of granting more funds for military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. The US War balance after 9/11, 2001, is terrible. At least 225 thousand lives have been lost, primarily, by the civilian population. In air raids, i.e. in the aggression on the SRJ, 12 locations of a rocket launched with an impoverished uranium – 231, where the consequences are still felt today. I would conclude my presentation with the conclusion that Serbia should not co-operate in agreement with France as a NATO pact member, in which none of the 54 countries from the African continent and 14 countries of the Ocean, including Australia, have joined the criminal organisation. Of the 35 states from the US continent, except the US, Canada, 33 countries have not joined NATO, while from the Asian continent of 47 countries, only the Turkish member of the NATO Pact. The new NATO members are former communist Eastern European countries, which must be members of the NATO Pact on the orders of the United States. It was also part of the daily press as well as the media in Serbia. I'll give you an example I found in "The Voice of the Public." In a text entitled "Why Everyone Hastens to NATO", he published, quoting... (President: National MP, please link your presentation on the activities of NATO members to the topic of the agenda. It is, I suppose, a contract between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France. Please bring together all data and general views on NATO to be within the agenda. )......................................................................................................... I'm just gonna do this one more sentence. Just to explain and read, I'd like to ask. The urgency of joining former Socialist countries in the Western-military alliance is encouraged by all means... (President: National MP, France is not a former Socialist country. She's more or less a country of market capitalism. )......................................................................................................... I'm just giving examples and I want to connect this subject, if that's not the problem? (President: It is a problem, because 7.5 minutes do not talk about the agenda point. I need to remind you of what's on the agenda and that all that you have as information on NATO, you'll be in contact with the topic of the agenda. The former Socialist countries are not the subject of the agenda, but they are not. That's where you and I get along. ) Madam Chairman, I want to make it clear, and if you do not allow me, I will interrupt, but I want to make it clear that the pressure, and I also spoke to the agreement with Montenegro, is all Eastern European countries that were communist at the time. What I'm saying is that the United States has been putting pressure on our country as well, to become members of the NATO Pact, with the goal of approaching the borders of the Russian Federation, so that the Federation can be divided into three parts. It's a contents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63718	I completely understand, MP, but it has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda. I followed closely, and I understand what your idea is, but you must at least have something to do with the topic of the agenda, from the statements you have conjectured as if it were NATO, because it isn't, but it is understood that the MP has an argument, so just one sentence at least. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63719	Mrs. Komic, I call on the formal law of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which is the part where the President, or chair, is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the order and work of the National Assembly. I'm sure you're not familiar with it, given that the information from a few minutes ago, but friends are attacking down in Zubin Potok municipality territory, the NATO-Pax soldiers attacked Serbs at barricades, they broke through, and there are injured. I don't think it would be very good for us to be here talking about these laws right now, and we don't have the most basic information, just before France, as a member of the NATO Pact, is on KIM, not on a civilian mission, but on a military mission, so probably their soldiers throw bomb shocks and shoot rubber bullets. It wouldn't be good if we were here to demonstrate a great friendship with the NATO Pact now, and that same NATO pact, as it is said here, is waging violence against Serbs who are on barricades. I would ask you to stop this session until the right information is obtained, whether there are any injuries and how can these people be helped there. Thank you for your patience to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63720	I would ask you not to abuse the right that has been given to us all, to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I would remind you that you have not explained what my violation of Rules of Procedure, or Article 27, is. National MP Dusan Maric has a word, followed by MP Momir Markovic. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Can we see in the voting day if you have injured the Rules of Procedure? ) In the day of voting, the National Assembly will decide whether a member of 27 is injured, at the request of MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63721	Ladies and gentlemen, I will return to the Agreement on Defence with France later, and now I will say something about the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of Azerbaijan on the Protection of the Environment. The first question is will Serbia benefit from this agreement? The answer won't. The second question - will Azerbaijan benefit from this agreement? The answer won't. The third question - will the environment in the two countries benefit from this agreement? He won't. Will the degree of pollution in Belgrade or Baku be lower? The answer won't. The next question - will Serbia and Azerbaijan have any damage to this agreement? It won't be big, but it'll have damage. The money spent on negotiations, on talks, on lunches, on representations, on paper, and, in the end, money was thrown out for this debate. The next fifth question - what is the purpose of signing an international agreement that really doesn't make any sense and that is known not to be applied? The only purpose of signing these and dozens of other agreements is their daily-political, propaganda, pre-election use, to convince the Serbian government that it is doing a useful thing, that it is signing important international agreements that will make them better. A colleague Krasic said, part of KIM burns, people get killed down there, and there are injured. We have over a million unemployed and that number keeps growing. We have over 700,000 hungry and that number keeps growing. More than 30,000 people die annually than they were born. This year we sowed twice as much wheat as in 1999. In Serbia, 700,000 people gamble daily, because only in gambling can they see a chance to improve their life position. We have 60,000 hungry people who eat daily in the soup kitchens. In Serbia, 370,000 people have no roof over their heads. On the other hand, we've got 60,000 estates that are empty, noises empty. Every day dozens of privates close their shops because they can't do business. The village is on fire, according to that folk, and the Serbian government is combing. It adopts agreements that literally have absolutely no use for it. Signing an agreement on co-operation in the field of environmental protection with a country that is 3,000km away from Asia, that is completely pointless. Why didn't you sign an agreement on co-operation in the field of environmental protection with Croatia, BiH, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Albania, Greece, Macedonia, with countries that are in our neighbourhood and which objectively affect the environment in Serbia? It's like you want to protect your yard, so you don't talk to your neighbor about it, you talk to someone from the neighboring village. Next, why didn't you sign this agreement with America, with France, with Great Britain, with the NATO Pact member states, who have been objectively affecting the environment in Serbia for 12 years every day, which are planetary forces and can influence even if they are not in the KIM occupation mission? You know, you have daily to throw waste at KIM, every day they shoot, every day they use tear gas, shock bombs, every day they do uncontrollable shooting down on the polygons. Why don't you sign an agreement with them to remove those 30 tons of impoverished uranium? To remove, there are various data, several tens of thousands of tons of metal left over from the bombing of the SRJ? That the agreement undertakes never to do what they did in 1999 again. You do not sign an agreement with countries that have been constantly destroying the environment in Serbia for 12 years, and you sign an agreement with a country that has never threatened the environment in Serbia for a single minute, nor is there a theoretical chance of doing so in the next hundred years. If you can't sign such an agreement with the states with which to sign it, then don't sign it with countries with which it doesn't make any sense, completely pointless. When you and Azerbaijan sign an agreement on co-operation in the field of environmental protection, it is as if with Nepal, Serbia signed an agreement on the development of maritime navigation, to sign an non-attack agreement with the Ivory Coast, or, say, Tobago. Secondly, the Serbian government's agreement with the French government on co-operation in the area of defence. The agreement is signed, I think, in April, and it's already being implemented. Here, French soldiers at KIM are already in effect, applying that agreement. They're targeting Serb civilians at KIM. In history there have been various international agreements, there have been various diplomatic miracles and humiliations, but I really don't believe that once upon a time a country, whose territory is occupied, has signed a defence co-operation agreement with a state that holds part of its territory under occupation. If this were a normal state, it would be more logical for France to declare war, at least formally. I don't think we're at war with them, but for the record -- people, we disagree, you keep our territory under occupation, you shoot our people at barricades, unarmed civilians, and we sign an agreement with you in the area of defense. I remind you of what all the French have done when it comes to Serbia's defence in the last few decades and years. French General Filip Morion made it possible to arm Srebrenica and Zepa, so after Naser Oric and those villains burned down dozens of Serb villages and killed several thousand civilians. French artillery from Igman's rapid fact force has been shining death over Serbia's Sarajevo for several months. French planes bombed Republika Srpska first. French planes took part in the aggression against the SRJ. French planes have been shining death around Serbia for three months, destroying our cities and villages, destroying bridges, schools and killing our children. French planes, I mean not only NATO-patka planes, but personally French planes have dropped more than five tons of poor uranium on Serbian citizens. France is responsible because after the arrival of the so-called so-called More than a thousand Serb civilians were killed at KIM peace forces. That villain Bernad Kouchner, that monster, that monster, who was the UNMIK chief, is the most responsible Kosovo is at this stage. It is the most responsible man that after 1999 Serbian civilians were taken to Albania to be butchered for the sale of their organs. I remind you, France is on a mission to occupy part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and you signed a defence co-operation agreement with them. For a reasonable man, any further comment is excessive. Why don't you send a protest note to the Government of France? Why don't you ask them to stop their occupation activities on KIM territory? Why don't you do it? The question arises what does Serbia get with this agreement? He gets one big nothing, gets humiliation and shame. Article 3 – cooperation can be achieved in the following areas: under one, defence and security policies. How do we achieve co-operation in this policy area when we want to preserve Serbia's territory and they want to take it away from us? We want KiM to stay in Serbia, they say -- no, we're going to take that away from you. We've already taken that from you. Article 8. - cooperation in the field of military rights. I don't know what we can talk to them about in the area of military law. Just to explain to us how an internationally recognised sovereign state gets an aggression past the UN Security Council? To explain to us French soldiers and French statesmen, to explain to us how the French states continuously violate Resolution 1244, creating a Shiptar terrorist state of Kosovo? Or explain to us how an internationally recognised state has been under occupation for 12 years? Article 6 – I quote the staff of the sending State in the territory of the receiving State under this agreement: "cannot participate in activities related to national sovereignty". Ladies and gentlemen, if you're ratifying this agreement, you know what's supposed to happen? Well, 24 hours after that, French soldiers at KIM are supposed to pack their suitcases, they need to leave the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Is that gonna happen? Of course it won't happen. Then the question arises – for whose grandmother health do you propose this agreement? Why are you distracting the citizens of Serbia? Serbian citizens suffer fire on KIM, there are wounded, perhaps by French soldiers. One Serbian citizen, not Kim. Other Serbs on KIM watch this TV broadcast where we are discussing a fraternizing agreement with France. You know, and that story with France about that eternal friendship from World War I. Let's let you bleed out in Albania, let you choke in the Ionian Sea, let you die of typhoid over there in Crete. You know when they intervened? When the Russian emperor said - ladies and gentlemen, if you allow the Serbian army to die, we will not participate in this story. We're not going to be involved in this crime. Only when they received the ultimatum of Russian Emperor Romanov did the French become great friends of the Serbian people. The question arises what does Serbia get with this agreement? Will France end its occupation of KIM after this agreement? He won't. Will he clean up that poor uranium? He won't. Will he at least give a word of apology for the occupation of Serbia's territory? He won't. Will he perhaps give words of apology to Dragoljub Milic of Goigula near Vuchitrn, who was murdered by two sons, the twins' sons? Is it possible he'll compensate for the damage to at least the families whose loved ones were killed? Of course not, they don't think so. Why are we adopting this agreement? Just to help France amnesty for a series of crimes that has been committed over the Serbian people for 20 years, only to raise the hand of the French representative on December 9th so that Serbia can board 2389 on a sinking ship and only to ensure that Serbian citizens are confident that Boris Tadic, DS and SPS are working for the benefit of Serbian citizens, so that they remain in power after the next elections. I will also refer to the agreement with Montenegro. Serbs in Montenegro, regardless of whether they plead as Serbs or as Montenegrins, and Serbs in Serbia should co-operate, especially in the area of defence. But while Milo Djukanovic's regime is in power, it is an illusion. Just reminding you, the regime of Milo Djukanovic played the role of the barjaktar thigh in breaking the SRJ and the regime of Milo Djukanovic has recognised an independent KiM. Finally, as for the Agreement on Co-operation with BiH on the Temporary Employment of Citizens of the Two States, which are located on the territory of another country, I only wonder if this agreement will apply to Muslims from Srebrenica, who are on the list of victims of the alleged Serb genocide...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63722	People's MP, please, if you can't determine for yourself what it is that a metaphorical display of the discussion that you are trying to bring into contact with the subject of the agenda, I will remind you that I am obliged to remind you that the measure exists and that every MP must respect it, not only because it writes as a provision in the Rules of Procedure on what is the measure in the selection of metaphors, that the MP would paint the subject of the agenda, so please and I warn you to continue the presentation in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63723	All I'm asking is whether BiH citizens, who have been in Belgrade for 15 years, are living and healthy, will work here, and are on the alleged list of murdered, will this agreement apply to them? The next and last thing, I really think it would be normal and polite, that it would be a matter of elemental decency and education to end this session of the assembly while the conflicts at KIM...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63724	Now I warn you twice, MP. I listen very carefully to you, and I believe that the MP has the freedom to define his exposure, but that it must have at least anything to do with the agenda. What you have done in the last two minutes of your exposure is a direct violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am obliged by the provisions, which relate to the fact that the MP does not respect the agenda and does not want to talk about the agenda, to give you a warning. If you think that's the way he's decent, I'm at your disposal. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, and after that, MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I don't know how to metaphorically connect the shooting of Serbs in Mitrovica...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63726	National MP, since it is obviously a strategy of the parliamentary group, which is perfectly legitimate, that all MPs use their presentations to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I warn you in the first sentence that this is forbidden to the Rules of Procedure, and that I am obliged, in that case, to impose criminal measures, so I ask you from the 10th to the 19th point of the agenda, a single search. Everything you want to share with other participants in the session and with the public must be related to one of the nine points of the agenda that is under search, otherwise I am obliged to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63727	I'll try, Madam Chairman, to find a way to connect what I'm going to have to say. First of all, I strongly protest the way the agenda points are combined on this agenda, and not only at this one, but at many meetings of the Assembly. From point 10 to point 19, you have combined everything, so incompatible that, on the one hand, we will find an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and France on co-operation in the field of defence and the Chemical Agreement and the Proposal for a law supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, etc....
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63728	People's MP, please don't deceive the public, because the two last draft laws you've laid down are not in a single search. So either to consult on what is being discussed or to apologize to the public of Serbia for misleading her about what the Assembly is currently discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63729	Madam Chairman, let's say, this is about confirming the Agreement on the International Transport of Easily Vulnerary Goods and Defence with France. Please find a metaphor and tell me where there are touch points, but someone from the ruling majority appears, suggests from point 14 to point 38, and you connect, so we're not able to say enough why we're against or why we're about certain points of the agenda. The defence agreement with France, right at the moment when French soldiers are engaged within KFOR to bring down barricades and exactly French soldiers shoot at Serbs, shoot Serbs in the Lamb this morning and exactly the friends of those French soldiers in Bujanovac carry in a column the Ship's flag with a black eagle on the red background and batlaya, stick their finger in the eye and those Serbs on the barricades, and God and those Serbs in Novi Sad and Sutotica, and I don't mean Serbs by political definition, but I mean Serbs, Serbian citizens of Serbia. Unfortunately, we have come into a situation, and it seems that the EU has ordered you "Europeans" to prepare and merge, and whether we are going to enter the EU tomorrow, it is difficult because, as far as you can see, the EU is falling apart. But it is an obligation to prepare yourself to enter that cemetery that will tomorrow be called the EU you can enter. I would refer to these four agreements – air traffic with Kuwait, Armenia, defence with France and defence with Montenegro. I'll start from Montenegro. That the government of Montenegro, that Milo Djukanovic, that those cigarette smugglers, along with Mila, and Milo wanted a common defence with Serbia, had it until the moment they left. Because many of our military contingents have remained there, undivided, undivided, and then we come into a situation that, by miracle, by the grace of God and by the grace of Milo Djukanovic, we have one or two "G-4 seagulls" coming back to us. So they give us back ours because they have mercy on us. Montenegro is very ready to join NATO. Is this the introduction through this and similar agreement, and some agreements that will eventually come, a way for Serbia to be introduced to a small door to NATO. I know the aspirations of Mr. Secretary of Defense, Sutanovac, Minister of Military, and we have only the military orchestra and this company that comes here when the autumn or spring session begins to wait for us. We don't have an army. If we had a capable army, neither what's going on inside Kosovo nor what's going on in the barricades could happen today. Someone would have to behave with respect. What kind of cooperation will we have with Montenegro if we haven't had it by now? If Montenegro is attacked, it should first be found on a large-force geographical map to potentially attack it, Serbs will surely come to the Serbs in Montenegro for help, as they have jumped to Serbs in Croatia, Serbs in BiH. Those who only call themselves Serbs didn't jump in and won't now. Therefore, this agreement is absolutely unnecessary, unless it is another feature on your EU accession cantary. By the way, if you left early this morning and you didn't get a chance to look at Dnevnik, the great skeptics are precisely in the EU predicting the black fate of the euro, and so is the EU. On the other hand, those who created the EU plan to build the EU with the first, second and third classes of states. We'll be in that third class. So we're going to be a colony. I trust in God and beg him never to enter. It's a deal with France. Well said Mr. Maric how they helped us even in that First World War, where we God knows how to raise them in heaven. The fact is that, for example, for Belgrade's defence, they sent two inches longer shells so that the grenade they sent couldn't get into the cannon and had to return them to Mladenovac, to cut off two millimeters of shell casings so that after three or four days, when it was too late, Major Gavrilovic could defend and defend Belgrade. In 1999, the dowries just beat this country hard for 78 days. Before that, the Republic of Serbia. So our two pilots were shot down by those two, and they were hoarse, and loathed, that the pilots might return. And it was cleverly done by General Mladic – you want to bomb the bridge, here you go, bomb it, but your pilot is tied to the bridge. They couldn't have turned away otherwise. I'm sure those bridges and those warehouses would have been torn down if he hadn't done it. Today, General Mladic is being tried, only because he defended, from everyone, including those French officers, soldiers, pilots, generals with whom you are today, defending Serbs and from them. What did the French soldiers in KFOR do? Do you have any information? We from the SRS have information about everyone who's been doing what they've been doing down there. We also have information about some soldiers who literally cancelled obedience and refused to go after the Serbs. We also have information about those who were in March when the Ship's Storm or the Flash started, or whatever it was called, when they started to darken the Serbs wherever they arrived, how some soldiers acted. But we have the information and how the French soldiers acted. Let me remind you, there are probably some extremely honorable officers in the French army, too. After all, it is quite good evidence that the two colonels who took off their uniform at the moment stopped being representatives of France and its armies when he attacked Serbs by French soldiers. Who are we making a deal with? What is it that has forced the government to conclude contracts of this kind with those who have expressed the enemies of the Serb people at this time? With those who sent Bernard Kouchner, a doctor without borders, and to Vukovar and across the battlefield, and to KIM? And wherever Bernard Kouchner appears, there are already traces of human organ trafficking. And Bernard Kouchner is still in power today. Perhaps that monument of France standing in Calemegdan can only refer to De Gaulle, France Depare, and it is certain that it will not refer to Sarkozy, Miteran, Kusner and those who come and sit here when they try to convince us to prepare ourselves to enter the so-called. The EU. As far as the air traffic co-operation agreement is concerned, Mr. Minister, I know that your ministry is extremely large and that you can't even look at your assistants, let alone in every service and see what is done and how it is done, but I must remind you again – the biggest crime is in air traffic, counting on the airport, counting flight control, counting on those services that are part of it. But first, you have to clear up in that yard, and then let's start negotiating with potential countries some kind of co-operation and sign agreements of this kind or that kind. What do I mean? Yesterday or yesterday news came out of the office, so you have that famous Nikola Stankov I've been talking about for 10 years, that she has eight and a half thousand euros a month's salary. You know how much that is? That's nine parliamentary salaries, that's seven or eight ministerial salaries. Clear these things up. Let UBPOK in, let's see what it does. On the other hand, here's your last chance at selling airport, JAT – it seems to be failing. Why? We're a very interesting destination. We're very interesting to the others. Why don't you offer Aeroflot? Maybe he would have taken, not perhaps, certainly. But then we'd be different relationships, Mr. Minister. Some who are far below you would certainly not be able to make the deals below the grains they make. I'm sorry, time won't let me, otherwise I had so much to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63730	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. After that, the Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are having a joint debate on 10 points of the agenda, including proposals for laws on the validation of international conventions, agreements and agreements in the fields of defence, economics, environmental protection, air traffic and other areas. We are not surprised by this congregation mascara because we are used to it being enough to write that the proposals of the law have been adopted by one another and the solutions to them are mutually conditioned and that the majority of them vote as if that were the case. I repeat, we are least surprised at this because we know the conditions of the Serb people in northern Kosovo and Metohija, there are Serbs attacked, and we have seen how the congregation majority behave all the time. For the representatives of the government, at this point, the most important thing is to form a working group in the National Assembly to develop a code of conduct. In particular, the public is baffled by the part concerning whether Serbian radicals should wear T-shirts with party President Vojislav Seselj's face. Every time we wear these shirts, we show our resistance to the Hague tyranny being carried out because of demands from Belgrade – take him away and do not return. Representatives of the ruling coalition should keep that in mind, especially when spending money when drawing up codes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63732	Please bear in mind your obligation to speak on the subject of the agenda. Neither the code nor your view through clothing is the subject of the agenda. So, please don't ask others what you're not ready to do on your own, which is that you follow the rules. Agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63733	In this group of laws that make up today's agenda, as I said at the outset, several areas are covered. We have confirmation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on incentives and mutual protection of investments. The most important thing here is to point out that the Republic of Indonesia has not recognised Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence. As far as economic co-operation is concerned, according to the Chamber of Commerce, Serbia has a small volume of exchange with Indonesia, which is characterized by a marked deficit on the side of Serbia's exports. In 2010, the exchange amounted to 51.1m dollars, and exports from Serbia were only $500,000. In this year, our exports in the first nine months were about $600,000 while imports from Indonesia to Serbia increased to 57.6 million. I have listed these data, and I will also read what is written as a reason why this international agreement is confirmed, among other things,: "The reasons are contained in the wish of a party to the contract to establish a legal framework in which further attracting investors from the country will be ensured. "Of course, every investor is needed, but to be an investor in the right sense of that word. There are plenty of stories about investors who come here just to benefit from the money they get from Serbia's budget, so after a while they announce their departure. Some go unannounced. I spoke here several times about a case that happened in Leskovac. The SRS grudge we are referring to the authorities is that it did not seem enough to increase exports from Serbia to Indonesia, as it did not seem enough to increase in any other country. We have repeated many times that the 2000 Free Trade Agreement on Russia and Serbia is not being used enough. Representatives of the SRS also here in the National Assembly and elsewhere expressed their suspicions that there are some hidden intentions of the representatives of the authorities when they do not use the opportunities in the scope of the contract. We had the opportunity to hear from the president of the state in this election year even so that it would be good for Serbia with some countries in the environment to perform together on the Russian market. He is also aware of how much Serbia is losing by sacrificing itself in order to listen without talking to EU orders and how devastating it is for our economy, instead of a complete turn towards economic and all other types of co-operation with countries where Serbia would benefit. When we talk about a contract between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, it is characteristic of this contract that it is made up in Serbian and Montenegrin languages. On the part of Montenegro, the finance minister signed but on the Serbian side, the contract was not signed by the finance minister but by State Secretary at the finance ministry Dusan Nikezic, who was empowered by the government to conclude. Otherwise, the state secretary mentioned, he is a member of the Ces Mekon family, a well-known consulting house that has been doing evaluations for the Privatisation Agency. He is the son of the owner of this house, which from 2002 to January 2010, has included more than 535 million dinars for 14 contracts from the agency. Current Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, as everyone is well-known, was CEO of Ces Mekona and director of the Privatisation Agency. Dusan Nikezic was Cvetkovic's deputy at the Privatisation Agency. More than Ces Mekona and working with the Agency earned only a consulting house, Morgan and Stanley, which only earned 677 million dinars in the sale of the tobacco industry during 2003. "Ces Mekon" has been among those who make the most money every year. In 2009, he earned slightly less than 60 million dinars. Unlike Morgan and Stanley, who was only hired once, Ces Mekon was a permanent, multi-annual consultant who earned the most money in just 2003, at a time when Cvetkovic, compared to Ces Mekon's executive director, was the director of the Privatisation Agency. At the time, Ces Mekon was working on the privatisations of the Belgrade seed...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63734	People's MPs, please bring the report on the consulting houses into contact with any part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63735	The SRS is very surprised that such an agreement is signed by the secretary of state at the ministry. However, it took a little more dignity for the contract to be signed as signed by the finance minister on the one hand, so that someone acting as finance minister in our office could also sign it. Otherwise, such experts who have led to the fact that after privatisation we have an army of unemployed, they do not care about national interests that someone attacks Serbs in northern Kosovo, they only know the language of money. And I'm saying this because it's important to hear everyone whose life has become a tragedy after privatizing the businesses they've worked in and everyone else on the street. Today, the problem is that these people survive and train their children, and those who gave advice to the Privatisation Agency, and for that, they took the fantastic sums of money...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63736	People's MPs, I think I reminded you of the subject of the agenda, so I now warn you that in any way, whatever you consider to be bad in the privatisation process, you bring into contact with any of the points of the agenda that are currently under search.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63737	Another agreement ahead of us is the agreement between Serbia and BiH on the temporary employment of Serbian citizens in Bish and BiH citizens in Serbia. And here the promoter stated that there was an organised temporary employment plan on the territory of the other side of the Contracting Party. The position of the SRS is that in some larger organised employment there will be nothing but perhaps individual cases. Unemployment in Serbia has been huge and the Republic Statistics Institute conducted a labour survey and data has been devastating since it turned out 375 000 employees were fired in 2007 to increase the number to 540,000 in 2008. Sometimes we hear a story about some new jobs, but they're so few that really this army of unemployed people only increase from year to year. Let us remember the principle on which this government is formed – on social responsibility. The army does not say that the government did not respect its basic principle. That's what the growing ranks say in front of the soup kitchens. State integrity and sovereignty are being violated. Every day is more dramatic at KIM, today especially. These are all characteristics of the government that alone can express a few praises, but the factual state of praise is being denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63738	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will mainly talk about an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of environmental protection. If someone were to ask in Serbia what benefit Serbia will benefit from this law, which is the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of environmental protection, probably no one would know what to say. What does Serbia, above all territorially, have to do with Azerbaijan, especially in the area of environmental protection? What experience do we have in this area to share with the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan or with us? The only thing we can pass on to them, let our experience in the work of our Ministry of Environmental Protection is an increase in the number of wild dumps, the burning of dumps, the construction of a plant for the processing of hazardous waste near schools, hospitals, settlements, water streams or, let's just say, non-intentional spending of budget funds to dress Dulic's ministry workers. You know that story from the media about buying leather shoes, leather jackets, coats, etc. Since this government has decided to save the planet from a global disaster with this agreement in the field of environmental protection with Azerbaijan, not to save Serbs in KIM, let's see how it is imagined and written in these 11 members of the agreement. Article 2 states that contracting parties will develop, expand co-operation in the field of environmental pollution prevention and environmental protection in the interests of both countries, as well as promote further development of economic, scientific and technical contacts. I have a question for the government's authorized representative. How can Serbia affect solving some global environmental problem in co-operation not only with Azerbaijan, but with any other country on this and other side of the globe, since Azerbaijan is not very close to Serbia? Does Serbia have a developed oil industry? There isn't. Does Serbia have a developed metallurgy industry? There isn't. Does he have any serious chemical industries? There isn't. Does he have nuclear power plants? He's gone and he shouldn't have any. Where something in Serbia can contribute, it won't be possible because, let's say, to U.S. Steel, a major polluter, it requires it to reduce the emissions of harmful gases when, say, it's going to endanger the great relations of this government and the United States? Who will dare to impose any legal obligations and restrictions on US companies in Serbia at all, because Americans can do whatever they want in this country, they can buy businesses, like hardware for $25m, they can kill Serbs in KIM, that's what happens today, and no one can stand in their way? Speaking of Azerbaijan, they really need to be given recognition of inconsistencies that they have not recognised Kosovo as an independent state. Article 3 below says Serbia will co-operate with Azerbaijan to protect biodiversity. A simple question for those who listen – how can they affect the biodiversity of a country that is thousands of miles away from each other? Our indigenous plant and animal species are related to our areas, to our biodiversity. They can hardly have any common denominator with the biodiversity of Azerbaijan. Why do they and we need experience for something that doesn't exist with them or with us? I would like to comment on the protection of the ozone envelope referred to in the point marked under the letter G) in Article 3. What can Serbia and Azerbaijan do on this issue, how can Serbia and Azerbaijan protect the ozone layer? It will be easy to protect Serbia because Serbia almost has no industry, so it cannot do any global damage or any major pollution. Real contaminants and ozone wrappers are U.S.A. How many pollutions they left in Serbia after the 1999 bombing. Azerbaijan, unlike us, has developed an oil industry, so it would have a greater obligation to bring its industrial production into line with provisions, above all, Kyoto Protocols. As for global pollution and damage to the ozone layer, the world's largest polluter, the United States, are not signatories to this Protocol and the planet's total pollution is 25 percent, so one quarter. Now Serbia and Azerbaijan are supposed to save the planet while the Americans are destroying it. Article 4 of this Agreement defines a way of co-operation in the field of the environment, according to the point under G), the exchange of best available ecological technologies. Whose environmental technology is thought of here, is it ours or the one used in Serbia that is of foreign origin? I doubt the state can exchange any technology, even environmental technologies that are not owned by it with another state, including Azerbaijan. Our technologies, as far as these ecosystems are concerned, may be some of the latest container models. What is important for the army of environmental experts, under the allegations, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is foreseen by the point marked under the letter D) of the training organisation, conferences and symposiums. It's the real point of all this, spending money on symposiums, delegations, working group experts, and in fact nothing significant is going to happen. Mr. Nebojsa Pokimica, who is listed here as someone representing the Ministry of Environmental Protection, should have told us at least one useful thing Serbia will have from this agreement or Azerbaijan. What's Serbia going to get? Where's that gonna apply? Where's he gonna use that? What is the common point that brings Serbia and Azerbaijan together in this area? Serbia, unfortunately, is a country of absurdity. The resolutions and conventions and agreements on something that Serbia doesn't even have, and Serbia has no power, say, to adopt a resolution on KIM and the loss of the Serb people under US and EU supervision. Simply, what the public in Serbia asks the MPs is when the session on KIM will take place. Following this proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of environmental protection, we expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry to sign both the agreement and the countries located in the Ocean as soon as possible, to take part in the rescue of coral islands from the destruction from excessive pollution of ocean water after we have completed all jobs in Serbia, eradicated crime, eradicated employment, protected Serbs in KIM and eradicated misery and poverty. In the end, this agreement is actually part of a common international scenario. Like most agreements, there'll be a dead letter left on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63740	Eight minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's the last registered speaker. Time is available for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63741	Mr. Moron, you've come to represent the government. That it's a serious situation you can tell by the staging. I've informed you what's going on in KIM territory. Now I'd like to go about your friends, Mrs. Comic. When some agreements are ratified with a state, regardless of which area is subject to ratification of the agreement, it must be taken into account the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the first place, and secondly to see which interest we satisfy as a state. Now you've put us in an awkward situation so we don't know what interest in the field of defense we should satisfy with you dear Republic of France in this composition of power that is now in France. I have come to the conclusion that there is no difference between the nomenclature in France and this nomenclature in power in Serbia and that in order to develop good friendly relations between the current government in France and the current government in Serbia, there is friendship, and the people, who ask the people. That's how it works out. Why? Please, France is a member of the NATO Pact. She committed the same crimes as the NATO Pact. She settled in there and now they're shooting at our people. Probably after this deal, they won't shoot our people at KIM. Why don't you tell us? They have recognised Kosovo's independence. They financed their terrorist organization. You cultivate friendly relationships with them. So you pressed them with electricity, with the traffic of goods. Since that didn't give us the results to weaken the resistance to barricades, we're going to have a friendship with the French who take away the kiM. He's taking KIM away from us. But these are your friends. Why are you doing this? In hopes of the SRS leaving the meeting, and we won't leave, because if it wasn't for us no one in this country would know what's going on. Nobody. No one would say one word. We're here to remind you. And Bernard Kouchner and those French men who were banishing the Serbs, and these Frenchmen who are shooting now. The NATO Pact has created Kosovo's armed forces. Mrs. Comic, today in Presevo is celebrated, and therefore there is no Riza Halimi. It's flag day. See how that fits. Riza Halimi there with his, southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica his pick-ups and their sponsors from France...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63742	People's MP, you are required to listen when I remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, I remind you that you are obliged to treat your fellow Members and fellow Members, the MPs, with respect, and that this is a provision that is explicit, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So I'm also asking you at a time when you want to, of course, argue your exposure with your political attitude, which is tantamount to emotion, that you don't forget that we owe each other a lot of respect to each other. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63743	Thank you. My political attitude is without emotion. It's based on harsh facts. So I ask you to be careful and not interrupt me, so as not to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63744	National MP, I now warn you that you cannot comment and that you are obliged to listen when I remind you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No disqualification of other MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63745	And I'm warning you of some information that has been presented in these agreements with your friends. You see an agreement on avoiding double taxation with Montenegro, and a few days ago you sent that Zumbul Nikolic to clarify details about the agreement, not to tax Cane Saturday, Kola. Just to let you know, since 2000, he's been the director of the Democratic Party. That's when the government in Montenegro funded October 5th and all that stuff. That Montenegro seems to have recognised an independent Kosovo. I don't know what financial interest you can make there. Don't raise your friendship to the state level. Please, your personal friendships, personal benefit, regulate in another way. Don't deal like this, where the finance minister is setting us up with his secretary of state, and then we see what's behind it, what's your personal interests in power, which you can't identify with the state's interests. We express a political stance, all those countries that have not recognised independent Kosovo, all those countries that have not participated in the bombing of the Republic of Serbia and the killing of the Serbian people, have met the condition that we develop friendly relations. All those who have done damage to the Serbian people, we cannot agree. We can't. We're not even. Let them withdraw their decisions on the recognition of an independent Kosovo. Please, what's the interest in defense? Explain to me what interest this is in defense with France? There's no interest. He may have some interest in SDPR, but they're subject to investigation by some other authorities. Not just SDPR, but other officials. As for BiH, please explain to people how it is possible to sign a treaty like this? You say "employment" this way -- since Boris Tadic was elected president of Serbia, by some planetary error, which has been wiped out from 2008 to today, from the systematicisation of jobs, Mr Mrkonjic, 500,000 jobs. So there are no 500 thousand possibilities. The number of unemployed has increased by 300,000 and in conditions when you're one day late, so you're deleted from the record. There are 22,000 graduates at work, 158 magistrates, three science doctors, 200,000 young unemployed. You haven't solved it, and you're making an agreement to have someone come to you from Sarajevo to work here in Serbia. Who? Dino Merlin to come to you? He doesn't need a job. Who else would you hire here? Who can go there to work? Do you know how many people have been expelled from Sarajevo without being able to return? But they're your friends. What else did you do? You've drawn three thousand euros per capita to debt, to European banks and other banks. I don't mind that three thousand euros should be paid by Gordana Komic, but why should he pay the one in Crno Trava who hasn't even seen that money? He didn't even ask for a job. You make good neighbourly relations, you develop co-operation, you run for the EU, and those in the EU say - we do not exist in January. We do not exist in January, according to those in the EU. You, as the last line of defence of the EU, are more defending the EU than the Van Rampa, the one called Van Popi, or what it is called, Phil and the others. You still have that frozen picture. You're going to the ambis, you're going to the break-in. You guys go to the break-in, but let this people go, don't drag this people into a break-in. Why are you dragging the people into a break-in? Get in the car with those friends of yours, and go to France, go there. As such great experts, go to Brussels and get the EU out of the crisis. Here, let's go, Junior, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, All experts can go in there and get it out. I would move the entire government to the EU, to save the EU, to save the euro, as you are capable. You only truly love the EU, no one else. They don't like Greeks, the Italians don't like them, the Spanish don't like them, the Germans don't like them, the French don't like them, the Portuguese don't like them. Brussels is about to make some sort of cobayage government. They have problems that our Euro-fanatics didn't move in there on time. If we had gotten in there before, it would have been a done deal. The job would've been done sooner. Where did you get the idea to talk about an agreement on good neighbourly, friendly relations in the area of defence with France that destroys Serbia and the Serb people? Thousands and two Serbs have been killed in KIM since 1999. No items have been solved. No items have been solved. This is the last example, Savo Mojsic – shot, killed a man within a few hundred meters of his house. He was at a friend's house, coming back from glory. Is it settled? It's not solved. Is he gonna get rid of it? He won't get rid of it. Why? Because your friends have come up with a concept that no Serb should be at KIM. Why did they make bonstil in Uroshevec Americans? Because no Serb lives there. It's ethically cleared. Well, then the Americans can be safe. You're developing friendly relations with them. What is the view of this friendship? You're probably sharing the same values with them. I'm absolutely sure you want what the Americans, the French and the Germans want. You banish Serbs with KIM, you destroy the economy of the Republic of Serbia, you are guilty and no one is guilty anymore. For not reacting to defend these people there. Did you get any credit for opening jobs in Serbia? No, I don't. To the corridors, to their merchandise of tumbling. And where am I, our goods? Who's allowed to produce it? There is no way they're producing it to compete with the EU. They don't allow goods to be produced here. This must be where you die. That's gotta turn around. Where's the state today? Why didn't the state go north to Kosovo to defend its citizens? Where are those lines of yours you swore to? You don't care, you need to rush through the Assembly, another of the 700 European laws, to pass. You've met the conditions, the EU won't meet you, and neither will the EU, like this. We don't want her. It is the majority attitude of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And don't bring any more of these agreements to the table here. Move this. You'll get some plus. Which plus do you get? The EU, the European Union doesn't know what to do with it, and you here formed a picture, like everything will break up, just to get a paragraph on December 9th. Paraph, to make Serbia a candidate for a possible start of membership negotiations, in a possible EU, somewhere, possibly in 2389. You made a mirage out of it. You're proving friendship. How can you prove friendship while Milo Djukanovic is in power in Montenegro? He did everything against the Serb people. So you don't respect what your President Boris Tadic says either. So who attacks most Boris Tadic? Milo Djukanovic. So did he charge him with a referendum? So he accused him of that Milosav Djordjevic, as his adviser, of going through Serbian issues there. Then you put this Nikolic in, he's developing, if he could go with Janosh, then Zukorlic, then with this one, then with that one. Like people don't know that. Well, they're blowers in the same pumpkin, people. You are pro-European parties, you love the EU. You like European standards. You hate this people. You will do anything against this people. Why? Because you're being blackmailed, because someone in Brussels can say, "Come on, Jackie, get to Jackie's leg, and 12 Jackie's gonna come, Boki, Toki, Taki, Dickie and Mickey." Twelve political parties representing EU values will come to tell them what the next stage is. They're your friends. I'd be ashamed to say they're friends. You are proud of friends who do damage every moment, every second to the Serbian people, in every place they do harm. When will they be satisfied? When this nation collectively commits suicide. This people aren't that crazy. Look at this people. Look, people, you don't have an answer for a single question. You're talking about good neighbourly relations, our great friends. We can't have subways from Russia, we can work from France. Why? What does the American Dwarf, published by WikiLeaks, say? Gilas took a vow. The Chinese won't work. (President: National MP, you have one minute left, so I would ask you to use that minute to discuss the topic of the agenda. Every second of my time is directed to convince citizens that there is nothing from the European road, but only living damage. (President:The People's Parliament, you can, of course, within the rights and freedom of the citizens, be associated with political parties or not, but here you must respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You've got another minute. If you want to use another minute, please, about the agenda. I apologize, Mrs. Comic, for attacking your friends. I lost it, so I attacked those friends of yours. I don't want to spoil your friendship with the French... (President: People's MP, I say clearly, that I cannot be clearer, and I beg you not to deceive the public. I remind you and warn you when you violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The fact that you think you know who's friends with whom, it falls into an explanation, to whom convincingly, to whom not, but I beg you without direct communication, without such an obvious violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have 30 seconds left, if you want to use it, go ahead. I hope you don't get angry if I buy you these 30 seconds, so you can go to the EU as soon as possible, so we can have a light.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63746	You have neither honored me nor treated the People's Assembly with respect, nor shown the will to obey the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I can only express my regret and really remind you and everyone else, that in that case, the Rules of Procedure obliges me, how to behave. The rules apply equally to everyone, and the rules are not for opponents or not for the same-minded, but for all of us. It is unworthy of these halls and institutions of the National Assembly that you feel that you have the right to mock the provisions that are clear, that they cannot be clearer. The MPs, therefore, who have applied for the word, have no more registered speakers. Does Minister Milutin Mrkonjic want a word? Here you go. Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63747	Thank you. Mrs. Komic, just the first few words about Mr. Mirovic's specific discussion, which always surprises me again with the knowledge of matter. But once again, I say, it's true, this law was built on the Law of Maritime Affairs. It is also true that in Serbia today there are about four or five thousand people who are seamen, it is true that there are our companies that have their own ships and that is exactly what binds us, no connection with the EU, but that is what obliges us to accept it. Most of his suggestions, I accept and agree with him. Now a little bit about the criticism that concerns the work of my ministry. Since I see we can talk about other things, let's talk about it. Last time I said, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, there are 150,000 people he cares about, one way or another. Of which, 25,000 people who build and make roads, they are on those corridors and maintain roads. There are 25,000 people who transport, so-called truckers - transporters, with whom I am particularly proud, who bring between 700 and billion euros in annual revenues to the country. They were Serbian businesses. They show how the Serbian economy works. Today, it works well in relation to the countries of Eastern Europe, because we export the most there. The third category is the railways, there are 25 thousand of them, too. And the fourth is these flyers, which, my friend, Moma Markovic, often speaks very harshly and sharply, but I have to deny them. Of course, in energy other 50,000 workers, of which 35,000 in the EPS and 15 000 in other sectors. As for the sector that's most talked about here, when these are airmen, I call them flyers, in question, I have to say that I'm pleasantly surprised as a minister for these three and a half years, how good that is. And the Agency for Flying and Directorate, and of course and JAT, with its businesses and JAT techniques, which have problems, but which we solve, and a whole series of these regret problems are related to JAT and JAT technique, is already in the phase of some solving. And, of course, Belgrade Airport. I must remind the MPs, who criticise me in that part, that everything relating to the Aviation Agency, which works by European standards, regardless of our path to Europe. Everything has absolute control, the so-called euro control, which you well know Momo, and even better than me and an absolutely daily report on the business of the agency comes. That package, of course, includes personal incomes or you get paid by people who work there. Our impact on this is to know that there is no abuse and that is very important to me, and how much wages they receive it is all defined in euro control, and you know it well. Although they're not budgetary institutions, we've established control within our government, and at the Flying Agency, and there's no malfeasance in the Directorate, which is very important to me. As far as JAT is concerned, the criticism was of several SRS MPs and it is not fair to talk about it today, because as you know, the tender is under way. You can see from the media that there are problems, we look at all these problems and make contact with these people, but it's not fair to talk about another variant, while what we've been doing now, until this tender is over, and it's gonna end by December 30th. So we'll know exactly if we have a strategic partner, no matter what arrests are made there, etc. Dacic even made a statement, and we can't get into it, it doesn't matter now, it's a matter of the country's body, but our task force, which is composed of people from five ministries, runs by Zelja Mitrovica, who sits on my right, as the secretary of state in my ministry, is doing his job correctly and I'm sure the job will lead to the end. As for some other variant, if we don't find a strategic partner, I repeat, it's not fair to talk about it today, when the tender is under way. Another very interesting and important thing for me is the JAT technique, as it is today, but over 50% of its capacities is made available to other companies in England, Russia, etc. So, and that's what's good news at this point for our companies. And what is also very important to Belgrade Airport today is the safest airport in Europe today with the technology it has and which, possibly, we complement if necessary, but the airport is in a state of absolute quality that requires Europe. So these are the things that happen today in air traffic and I as a minister have no reason not to be unhappy with it. I repeat again, the complete control of all these institutions is daily, not weekly, and please, if there are any negativity that you see without me knowing it, go ahead, go ahead, stand at your disposal, as always for all MPs to come and ask, to tell me what's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63748	MP Momir Markovic, do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. Because I listen very carefully to everyone who lies and because when you listen, then you can hear whether there's a reason for replication or not. In his address, the minister said he had to deny you, that's not the reason for the replica, because he presented facts that are correct. You have nothing to explain to him, since you have no right to a replica. Is there anyone else, who has not used his right under Article 96(4), willing to report before the hearing is concluded and based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals of the law from a joint single search. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – Proposal to elect an elected member of the First Assembly of the State's attorneys, who has submitted the Serbian Attorney's Office. You've received the Justice and Administration Committee's report. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 201 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of each parliamentary group, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once every five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96(4) of the application for a word shall be accepted until the search is opened. I thank the participants of the session for their participation, Minister Mrkonjic and co-workers from the ministry. I would also like to inform you that on this agenda item, the SRS parliamentary group is represented by the authorised representative, MP Zoran Krasic. If any of the other parliamentary groups decide to empower one of their members, please inform us that we can inform the National Assembly. I ask the MPs not to earn it, especially not the words "if there is someone from the ministry", since a search of the agenda points has just been opened and with a little more attention you might hear who is proposing at the agenda point which is currently under search. I'm asking you a little effort together, because it's a lot simpler for everyone to listen and hear what's going on. Please don't throw it away, especially without any connection to anything currently under way at the National Assembly session. In accordance with Article 201(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. The applicant's representative is not present. Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63749	Since the speaker was authorized, I am the author of the SRS parliamentary group, and on behalf of the Committee, Bosko Ristic had to be there. He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63750	People's MP, the Committee is not a proposer. Please take a look at who is the formal motion to elect an election member of the First Chamber of State's Attorneys. Exactly and I always say who is present, who is not present, so I ask you to speak with the same attention about persons who can or cannot answer the word during this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63751	The less trouble you'd have if you'd just listen to me. I said that Bosko Ristić wasn't there on behalf of the Committee, I didn't say on behalf of the Proposer...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63752	People's MP, that's what you said during the session until you got your word, so I'm asking you all to listen a little more carefully to what's going on at the session, so we don't have to risk breaking the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63753	I had just the intention to point out that the proposing representative is not here and that he is not the chairman of the board of directors, as rapporteur, and that Zoran Krasic is here as representative of the SRS. It wasn't hard to understand, Mrs. Comic, but it finally came into fruit, from a third attempt. This is a second attempt, Mrs. Comic. You remember earlier this Mr. Miroslav Bojic, a lawyer from Cačka, was proposed to the State's Major Prosecutors. Now the question is, the last time didn't pass, now it's proposed again, will it pass? That's why I thought it was important for Mr. Bosko Ristic to be here, as he cheers and dresses both in the High Council of the judiciary and in the State Council of Prosecutors. That's why it's a disaster in our justice system. He's reformed, so it would be a disaster. The purpose of the reform was not to get to the truth and justice in court, but to make our judiciary just like this, that people don't know how to exercise some of their rights, some of their interests before the court, as the last instance where legal control is carried out in the broadest sense of the word. Now the question is, will this candidate pass? The last time didn't work out because the parties that make up the majority in the National Assembly couldn't agree on this candidate. What was the background? Some parties do not respond to this candidate, especially not the candidate proposed by the Serbian Bar Association, and some would have responded if it had been proposed by the Belgrade Bar Association, as lawyers were also torn apart by interest in two parts, so there are some who are loyal to the Serbian Bar Association and some to the Belgrade Bar. That's where politics got involved. It controls the DS over there, and this is controlled by "Zoombuli." They control, and now that that's the situation, you have a division in the bar, purely political and political parties, and then what do we choose here? Explain to me, what should we choose? I understand the DS will vote for their candidate, but then the others will object, so Cvian will come with a tape recorder to let the public know. Now the question arises, if in the reform you wanted to make the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors as independent, independent bodies that cheer and dress on all issues in courts and prosecutors, did you succeed when you saw how people were elected and why someone wasn't elected. The future work of these candidates is suspected, if they pass, if elected, because there is a political background. You, dear friends of the European Commission, swore that the transformation was over. Serbia is on its way to the EU. Mr. Novakovicu, these from the European Commission are making two reports. One on Serbia's progress and the other on Kosovo's progress. I haven't heard that some lawyers God knows what they've rebelled and they have to protect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A lot of lawyers have split up. Protecting the client, making a deal with the opposite party or with the judge. Why? He's acting markety, who gives more. The market economy has prevailed, that is to say, supply and demand. Mr. Novakovic, do you know of a simple lawsuit, etc. What are the taxes, 20, 40,000 dinars. Tell me, how's that black grass guy gonna sue for honey? How? He's got to pay a tax on a man. Well, that's the kind of money he takes a month, he'd forget those meters from the border. Please see where your reform is headed. These are all European standards. All this is true in Europe. You can't go to court alone. You have to lead a lawyer. This is a kind of conflict of interest, if we leave out this political dimension, which I was just talking about. Now someone is going to say – so it's in the law, etc. Yes, it says in the law, but you've passed the law. If someone else had a majority, it wouldn't have been such a law, so the municipal courts wouldn't have been lost, so now the judges have to step in and the parties have to tampered with lawyers, they can't even collect their claims. Let's not talk about witches, etc. Take care of yourself. Think about it. I remember at the end of 2008, at the beginning of 2009, you were delighted to pass laws on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, with enthusiasm you lifted the courts in smaller places, so basic, higher, appeals, and a new network, so new this will all be epochal. Now you're doing what some of the items are obsolete. They're obsolete with you. You've been in power for 11 years. As long as you're in power, everything is absolutely out of date. It's in the candidate selection proposal, Mr. Novakovic, it says. Do you see that he was working on judicial reform, did you read the biography? When it was the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, don't forget, you came to power while the SRJ existed, you ripped it off, so you made a state union, and you cut it off, and now you cut Serbia off. You simply whatever you catch in your hands it's drying up, there's nothing of it. That's why Bosko Ristic was needed. I've been telling you for five years - what he's caught for, there's no way he can come back to life, it can only be destroyed. Now you're screaming, the items obsolete. More, you have to love Mira Markovic, you're free, you've got a coalition partner. You're with Mira Markovic in the coalition. Why did you burn down the assembly? You have to, what do we do, sign a national reconciliation, accept all that, take that risk. Kobajagi, and they want to go to the EU, so now they're not going to do something. They saw it wasn't right. Well, if you can double-cross voters. Mr. Novakovic, it is extremely uncertain whether this candidate will pass as well. I'll explain why it's uncertain, Mr. Novakovic. Do you remember the interpretation of Happykovic? No-one from the SPO defended him, and when he had to decide whether to vote, they wouldn't go into the O.R. That's your coalition partner. So you brought in 2.3 of the DS to say something positive about Sredkovic, and the SPO won't get in. Now think about this candidate who won't let you all in the hall vote. There's no reason to go back to the O.R. those who didn't want to vote last time. Then the question arises – are you distracting us here, putting in some candidates you're sure can't get through? Do you remember, you didn't even get past college professors. What the law schools decided, decided who was going to be a member, came to the vote, a failed candidate. Why did you fail? He failed because of democracy. You see how democracy destroys everything. And this candidate failed because of democracy, because the parties couldn't agree whether it could go through, whether to vote for him. I don't use this man's name on purpose anymore, because there's no reason to scratch his biography, but the problem is in the Assembly, the problem is in most, the problem is in pro-European parties. You are all pro-European, all of you inherit EU values. You swear on EU standards. Mr. Novakovic, imagine what happened last week. There was a Thomas Njoki, Nooki's last name is not a nickname, from the European Commission. He says -- there's no good situation in Serbia, there's a lot of people in custody, detention is an unwarranted debt. Imagine, the seventh year of detention in Serbia, it is not a European standard – says Njoki, while Vojislav Seselj is in custody at The Hague tribunal for nine years. Will you take advantage of your reputation as a lawyer to influence Njoki, that he too goes to control The Hague tribunal and see what kind of report he's going to write there. Let's see that. Or would you urge Mr. Novakovic to invite all the lawyers to raise their voice for violating the human rights of Vojislav Seselj? Well done, there are a lot of lawyers who are publicly performing and expressing their disagreements. Let's see Serbia's Bar Association, this one from Belgrade shouldn't because there's blood in the veins, because they're under the control of this Milov. He can't, he can't be quiet. These are European standards – take everything life gives you, as they are not European standards. Mr. Novakovic, how can you tell me that these are not European standards? You misread European standards. How many times in this assembly have we heard – the state in the budget must not have more than 3% of the deficit financing of the gross social product? All the time in France, Germany is 6.13.5%, etc. Did we pass the law here, so we said – European standard, up to 65% of gross social product can be the total government debt? Serbia said 45, well, make it 45%. How much Greece is in charge – 120% of gross social product, Germany 186, Italy 200%. How can those standards not apply there? So these standards only apply when it comes to Serbia, and they don't. Thank God she played a match with them. Mr. Novakovic, for 11 years, this group of people here, sometimes less sometimes, fight a fight. It is not enough that the EU tells us – we will not be the Serbs, but we will tell them too – neither will we. You see how we're at the same wavelength. And we know what we don't want, as they do. Of course, we just don't want them as bad as they want us to. We have no territorial claims, we express concern for the state of human rights in Western Europe, Mr. Novakovic. Do you remember when the DEPOS was here, that Vidovdan Assembly? At the time, due to sanitary and hygiene conditions, the government could not intervene. Now you have what – we occupy Wall Street, for sanitary-hygienic reasons. How many people have been arrested? Do you see how democracy changes? She became selective. This gentleman is a victim of democracy. The first time he couldn't make it through, because they didn't make a deal, you probably didn't pay someone to go into the O.R. There's nothing else. It's a market principle. Did you two make a deal now? It is possible, due to this rivalry between the Belgrade Chamber and Serbia's Bar Association. And what is the view of rivalry? Getting a position. Did you notice how that goes capillaryly? Zumbuli hires lawyers, doctors, judges, meets the criteria of good neighbourly relations, even uncritically, wants to run to be Serbia's first Jackie in the EU. The first Jackie to be Knozi is running. You see these great fighters for KIM. They will not go to the assembly because Kosovo is not being discussed, and they have not organised any KIM gatherings. And you can't wait for us all to get out. No, I don't. We're talking about Kim. I think this biography is insufficient. For example, this biography would satisfy me if I could see here that this Mr. Bojic often went to barricades, that he was entering these property and other disputes, that in every way possible he tried to help Serbs with KIM. I don't know, maybe a man does, but he doesn't have a biography. Since it isn't, my conclusion is in place. Why? In this way, the man defines himself and says how much he loves Serbia and how much he would do his job tomorrow. Because there's still some order in this D.A.'s office that needs to be seduced. This Zagorka Dolovac, when Canak proposed it so you chose it, and you remember that Ostojić before that, because of him we changed the law, had no work experience, that was in 2003, there he is now cheerful and dressing there, and he was elected to "Sablja" – compensation for those arrested, etc., etc. There are a lot of candidates for Jackie, don't worry, Mr. Novakovic. Anyway, I hit that with my foot and he skis and runs. Never mind. So I get the impression that you put this on the agenda for the sake of order, that one of these obligations is simply fulfilled. Because, apparently, by 9 December, you have to show absolute commitment to the EU, in every respect and respect of every requirement, and so now you look with enthusiasm at the destruction of barricades. It's what your friends do that you can't and you don't want to influence. For your message is about: let us war on KIM as soon as possible, and then it will be dawn upon all. Mr. Novakovic, for a month and a half, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic has said about KIM that tomorrow, tomorrow, there will be a session tomorrow, and now there is no sitting at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63754	But we have a proposal to elect a member of the First Chamber of State's Attorneys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63755	Mr. Novakovic, but how can you be sure that Mr. Bojic did not authorise me to ask him what was wrong with KIM? Where did you get the opportunity to think that maybe the man hadn't contacted... . (President: There is this possibility, but not at this business moment. Perhaps a man is uncomfortable with you choosing him as a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. I think that's the problem. (President: I would no longer continue communication like this, we can do it better. Please return to the election, to the Attorney's Chamber's proposal on the election order. You know how, every decent man has a problem. It's important for him to be chosen by honest people. Because in Serbia, you're still the saying - who you're with - that's who you're with. That's why you have to choose the society that a man hangs out with. I know that everything I say isn't merciful for you and your friends who flock to the EU, just make sure that you don't overplay, because many have burned to the nail, people are barely making ends meet. Justice and truth are not in our courts today, because transformation was not because of it but to preserve positions. You'll see when that voting day comes, although it's possible to vote on this point only in October of next year, it wouldn't surprise me either. Because democracy is too fluid a thing to consider. And in these five seconds, Mr. Novakovic, take Comićka under your hands and go free to the EU and don't come back at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63756	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Mr Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63757	Mr. Chairman, today the National Assembly is discussing a candidate proposed by the Law Chamber of the Republic of Serbia, and this is about Mr. Boyic, a man who comes from the profession of law. The first law on public lawmakers in Serbia was passed back in 1862. The lawyer went through different stages of its development, as one of the independent professions that has always had the task of protecting the fundamental human rights that have been trampled and which have been violated by the current government. Serbia's lawyer, however, has for the past 10 years had an obligation to report for the UN tribunal's work. No regional, nor Belgrade's lawyer chamber, nor Serbia, has reported the difficult state of Serbian officers, generals and politicians, to whom the self-called UN war crimes tribunal has applied the most drastic measures by imposing dragon penalties on Serbs, and by liberating our enemies, Ustasha and Muslims, who have committed numerous crimes against the Serb people. Serbia's lawyer was tasked with joining in defending the rights and freedom of our citizens. Among them is Professor Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Novakovic, you well know, as a good professional and a lawyer and an expert, that no country in the world has ever happened to hold a man in custody without a solution to open an investigation or without a solution to determine detention. In all modern countries with a developed legal system, especially when it comes to criminal-legal matter, the procedural right foresees that arrest decisions can be extended after a month, three months, six months and a year. In the case of Vojislav Seselj, something has happened that has not been written in history, that there is no solution for determining detention, that there is no solution for extending detention, that there is no fair trial, that there is no trial within a reasonable time, that it is accused of something that Prof. Vojislav Seselj did not commit. It is very well known to the Serbian, Belgrade, Vojvodina and regional chambers. The Belgrade regime contributes to the fact that Dr Vojislav Seselj should remain in unfounded and illegally defined detention as long as possible so that the current government can end affairs in favour of the EU and NATO pact, because Vojislav Seselj in Serbia would be a completely different state. When you look at, Mr. Novakovic, as the lawyer went through history, one document from the Serbia-Montenegro Archives, which was led, was recorded as the 507 Fund, the National Government Commission, a description, the number and that, the document is strictly confidential: "Trustly confidential, kept in the register", imagine, it must not be kept in another space, but must be in a steel register, notices of the UDBE of the People's Republic of Serbia for February 1952, the national government says, "Political composition and state in the ranks of lawyers in the People's Republic of Serbia. "In an analysis of the situation in the ranks of lawyers, it is said in this document, in 110 cuts we have come to the conclusion that lawyers represent one of the biggest problems of our legal service and especially of our judiciary. Politically, these are former regimes, executives and active members of the former bourgeois parties. Imagine, attacking capitalism? Former ministers, MPs, judges, meeting chiefs, police scribes, senators, major mayors, royal notebooks, active court officers, most of them active assistants and supporters of the occupiers...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63758	Mr. Jojic, I ask you to come from history to the present, it is the proposal of the Serbian Bar Association on a candidate for the election of a member of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors. So, it's nice that you have a historical approach and a well-prepared speech, but please, yes, it's my expectation personally that you'll also have the same approach about the lawyer's office and about the candidate, so please return to the agenda and come to the presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63759	Thank you, Mr. President, that's how it's gonna be. I'd just like to ask you to give me a few more words. It is of great importance what the lawyer has been through, and it should be tied to the proposed candidate, what should be advocated and how they should oppose everyone's independent profession. I'll talk about the state of law, I'd just like to ask if you'll excuse me. He says 772 lawyers are enemies of the state. Gilas says it's hardened by state enemies and praises how good OZNA is, and it's not bad, not even the militia. You see, back then in the one-party system of Joseph Broz, in 1953, Milovan Gilas said it. I intended to point out the fact that the lawyer was going through, and today he is going through a difficult time to vote as an independent, independent profession which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and enters the system of justice. You know that well. You see, in the world, I'm going to connect, this is a candidate, it's a high function, and it's no wonder that lawyers should be elected judges, to be elected prosecutors, because it's the only complete institution that in countries with a developed legal system is the basis for the selection of judges in 80% of cases in Western countries, in America, in England, in France, in Italy, in the Netherlands, in Belgium, and I don't list people in the judiciary, so from the lowest to the highest judicial institutions, even in the House of Lords, people come from law. They're the most professional people. Why? Well, they're the most professional. They're not just narrowly specialised, we're not doing criminal things or in the field of civilism, they work and represent citizens in front of competent courts from all areas and branches of law. It is no accident, Mr. Vice President, that many great historical figures, such as Demosten, Ciceron, Thomas Mor, Gandhi, Castro, Mendela, Franz Kafka, were by profession lawyers. This is good for lawyers to be in all institutions, but the question is whether one representative will be able to successfully represent the attorneyate in the State Council of Prosecutors or the High Council of Justice. It's a question of discussion. It would be good if the candidate to whom the Assembly elects more advocates for the protection of fundamental human rights, to fight for those prosecutors to come those people who will not allow the violation of the Constitution, violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, violation of the criminal code and other laws to the detriment of citizens when it comes to the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens. Mr. Krasic was talking about the division in the bar. There are groups in Serbian law now. I am afraid that the tones are groups that would like to keep their positions in the bar, 20 years to be in the law offices, and that they receive certain financial funds and rewards for that, and that they want to keep those positions fighting in different ways, and even to come to the Serbian Assembly to offer to one political party and ask the political parties to request the signatures of MPs to send an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Law on Lawyerry because the conflict between the Belgrade Chamber and within the Chamber of Lawyers themselves has a lot of disagreements. There are groups now within that chamber that number three thousand and some lawyers and would have to be reorganized in the following way, such as in France, Germany -- no more than 300 lawyers can be in one chamber. Why would this be a massive chamber, and to usurp power from individuals in the bar? How come now, Mr. Novakovic, I don't know if you know that this very group of MPs signed that initiative? Why? She joined. We didn't sign it. The SRS MPs won't participate. They are seeking an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on Lawyerry because they are bothered that the attorney must be one institution and that there must be an institution in accordance with the Constitution and other laws and that decisions of senior authorities must be respected vertically and horizontally linked. In Belgrade's Bar Association, is it true that there are now about 10 bodyguards around two or three people and do not allow the authorities of the Chamber to access material and financial documents, lawyers' files and use their premises? Is it true that there are lawyers against whom no proper action is being initiated? One submitted 500 initiatives before the International Court in Strasbourg. The International Court in Strasbourg says it also refuses that its initiatives are unfounded. He returns to Belgrade's Bar Association, and the Belgrade Chamber is silent. The question arises – is the Bar of Lawyers privatized, politicized and politicized? Do the police authorities interfere in the work of the independent profession of the Bar Association? Those questions are being asked. This relationship and these institutions, Belgrade's Bar Association and the Serbian Attorney's Chamber of Lawyers, must seduce order and order for lawyers to take matters into their own hands and thus end all the troubles that have been devised by the Bar Association. (President: I agree. It is our turn to abide by the Rules of Procedure. These local misunderstandings and regionalisms should not affect our obligation to stick to the agenda and discuss this proposal to elect a member of the First Chamber of State. Please, Mr. Jojic. ) As for the proposed candidate, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Krasic has given a valid explanation and I would not like to repeat it. I would just like to ask you, it is a shame that the Justice Minister is not present today, or rather, from the State Council of Prosecutors, or even from the Serbian Attorney's Chamber. One question arises – who are the privileged lawyers before the courts, and from what structure do they originate? You have privileged lawyers who have a stand-off in the police force, who have a stand-off at the investigative judge and who have a stand-in at the prosecution. Almost constantly the same lawyers, not respecting that list delivered to the police, and to the prosecution and the court, absolutely do not respect that list, nor do they respect the order. Everyone has their own, and he comes to defend by official duty, when they call him and when they will and when they agree. But there's one big problem with law enforcement. This colleague would have to take into account, which is proposed, although chosen by the National Assembly, to address this issue too – what is the status and relationship of the lawyership according to the new Criminal Procedure Code, what jobs will the police need to do by order of the public prosecutor and whether the prosecution is qualified for future application of the new Criminal Procedure Code or not? Are the police preparing for the application of certain powers or not? Under this law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, there's no word on this, will the police be preparing, first of all, the judicial police? We'd have to have judicial police, like in other states. I'd like one more thing, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Vice President, this way I'm asking the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice when they're going to pay off the defense by official duty and when will that defense be paid by official duty 100% as is paid in other institutions? Second, why isn't debt beating allowed? The state owes lawyers, and the lawyer owes tax to the state, counts on him and tightens his legal interest, but the state won't pay the lawyers. You know, and the lawyers are in crisis right now, just like the crisis in the whole system. I ask the question – will the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance find this solution, to execute the beating of these debts? I hope I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I really meant to talk about this bill. I could talk more, but I don't want to talk about the weather, because my distinguished colleagues need to take a word for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63760	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we now have the turn to propose that Serbia's Bar Association elect an election member of the state council of attorneys, where Serbia's lawyer, Mr. Miroslav Bojic, from the Law Office, will be proposed as Serbia's only candidate. I will also look back in a few words on what Mr. Zoran Krasic said earlier, and regarding the initial proposal by the Serbian Bar Association for the election of an election member in the State Major Prosecutors who, if you remember, did not pass this assembly majority. On Savindan in 2009, the Bar Association proposed certain candidates, you know between them was Mr. Bojic. That proposal didn't go through here. It has been a year and 10 months since then, and here is a new proposal from the Serbian Bar Association, where Mr Bojic is proposed as the only candidate in front of the Bar Association. The question arises – what happened in the meantime that this candidate, we now assume, is to get your trust and be elected to the State's Major Prosecutors, and that a year ago... (President: The Proposer is the Bar Association. Excuse me, Attorney's Office, but a year and a half ago he didn't have your support? By the way, I know Mr. Boyic personally. I remember about 25 years ago, in his capacity as President of the Chamber of Lawyers, Cacka signed a certificate confirming that I was an intern for law enforcement who ended up with a lawyer in Chačka. What should be said here during this election is that the state's major prosecutor is an independent body, at least so well-conceived, which provides and guarantees the independence of public prosecutors and should ensure the independence of both public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. The D.A.'s office has broad powers. It sets out the list of candidates for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and I will say some, among other things, to the National Assembly of the Candidates for the first election of the Public Prosecutor's Deputy Prosecutors, to elect the Deputy Prosecutors to serve as Deputy Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors, to decide on the termination of office of the Public Prosecutors, to determine the reasons for the resolution, to decide on the distance, to decide on decisions on the distance of the Public Prosecutor and Deputy Prosecutors, to determine what functions, offices or private interests are in conflict with the dignity and independence of the Prosecutors, to lead a personal list for each public prosecutor, to the Deputy Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutor, this is a very interesting authority, to establish the criteria for the evaluation of the work of the Public Prosecutors and the Deputy Prosecutors, to decide on a legal remedy, etc. So this shows that the powers of the State Council of Prosecutors are really wide. The state's chief prosecutor should be a guarantee of the prosecutor's independence. In principle, the State's Major Prosecutors should not be dependent on any influence, influence, or any other authority. The D.A.'s office is a very large responsibility. The question arises at the beginning of what is the role of the Ministry of Justice in the State Council of Prosecutors? I'll remind you that the Minister of Justice is a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Is the role of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice himself, as it has been said in time, in the security of offices, then in the systematization of jobs, in one logistics support, or is the role of the minister of justice and the ministry itself far greater? Is this role much greater when it comes to the State's greater prosecutors? The question is, what is the role of the State Council itself regarding the failure to elect a large number of public prosecutors during the first round of the general election? What were the arguments that we had, in part, only a chance to see? It is clear that many prosecutors, who were not elected in this first cycle, simply could not be attributed to anything, could not be resented. The arguments that we have received and which have leaked in some way from the State Council of Prosecutors is that those who have not been chosen on that occasion, or those who have been chosen, are currently something better than those who have not been chosen. That argument, which in some ways is very general, is really both malice and unmistakable. There is no way to eliminate a whole one play, a whole group of prosecutors who have not been elected. And the question arises which criteria were used to make someone perform such a thin thread, to say that someone is a little bit better at the moment? What does that mean, at the moment, is a little better and how much better is it – right now? What could the BIA possibly say about that? Did the BIA have a say in selecting these public prosecutors? The state's major prosecutors in the arguments cited only some individual cases, not taking into account the overall work of these public prosecutors or deputies who were not elected. Perhaps they felt that the arguments they gave for those chosen made them in fact that those chosen become in some way infallible. Is that right? Are those prosecutors, for whom the state's major prosecutors in the explanation state the reasons why they were chosen, just as sinless? I can tell you that what could have leaked from these arguments is that the State's greater prosecutors in those arguments resented everything and everything. For those unselected were such strict criteria, so strict that it can really be compared to what Vuk Karadzic said at the time, it is harder for a sinner to enter heaven than a camel to pass through needle ears. I'd say it was harder for someone who didn't have to go through and not be elected as a prosecutor, it's harder for them to pass than for camels through needle ears. Unfortunately, it turned out to be true. And the question arises, what about the ones the state's major prosecutor chose? How do they do? Experience shows, and that's what the State's Chief Prosecutors must deal with, because in these powers, which I read for the State's Major Prosecutors, that's what they do. The role of the prosecutor is very delicate and responsible, because in fact the prosecutor is initiating and channeling this criminal act and it is the prosecutor who can place the defendant on the charge of both ease and more serious crime. There may be various abuses. When police are involved in this whole story, which is very often the case, then it is actually obtained in many cases the prototype of this corruption. These cases of corruption in light of these modifications are indeed very numerous and could be cited all day long. There have been cases, as you know, and blood exchanges in the drunk driver and the breaking of the window through which the bullet went through, etc., so that abuse and corruption can occur very often. One question that must be asked here – why does the State's Major Prosecutor break the law? I'll remind you of one case, that's when the State's Major Prosecutors paid a fine of 20,000 dinars for the decision. In the wake of a new warning, the State's major prosecutor pays a fine of 180,000 dinars. Imagine what happens after. After other fines were imposed and charged, the State's chief prosecutor did not again act according to the trustee's decision. Then what do you need this trustee for? What do you need an institution of trustees, when neither the State's Major Prosecutors, who needs to control all this work, just doesn't do his job and violates the law? Finally, I believe that this election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors, unfortunately, will not bring anything new in our legal system. I think everything's gonna stay the same. Just like you did the so-called so-called. The reform of the judiciary will not change this choice either. In the end, I would like to ask the question when will the session of the Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija be? You know, there are very dramatic things going on in Kosovo. It's not that most of them ignore it. Looks like you're the one who ignored it. I suggest that it is indeed high time that you sober up already once and give up this illusion about the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63762	The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a proposal from the Bar Association to elect Miroslav Bojic as a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. We will certainly talk about the agenda, but it is impossible, Mr. Novakovic, without asking you publicly when will the session be held about the problems escalating to KIM? Have you in any media, and you haven't, because everyone under the state's paw, under the regime's paw, heard that Serbs were attacked in the Lamb, that there were injured? (President: You asked the question, I did not interrupt you, but now the explanation of the question, and yet it is not fair to leave so much of the agenda. So, a proposal to elect a member of the first assembly of the State's Attorney General by the Serbian Bar Association. Thank you. I know, Mr. Novakovic, what's in the living room, but it's not fair what you're doing. Not that it's not fair, but you're breaking the Constitution and banning the MPs and the Assembly from doing their job. You don't want to talk publicly about the problems at KIM because you're falling into a monster organisation called the EU. And you're going to give everything to go into that thing more or formally, so to speak, it doesn't exist. And you can't, Mr. Novakovic, stop us from saying that. Today the Serbs at KIM are risking their lives... (President: I have no intention at all to discuss the subject that you are trying to impose, but you are putting me in a position to apply article 7 of Article 103 or take this second warning as the last one and return, please, on the subject and do not violate the Businessman, Mrs Radeta. Thank you for understanding. ) Mr. Novakovic, of course, I will return and speak half an hour on the subject, we have so much time left, but this is how I advise you, don't scare us with the penalties, today Serbs are risking their lives on KIM, and you think you'll scare us with a fine of 7,500 or 15,000 dinars, as much as it costs your warning. We don't care about that money. We want what's most important in Serbia to discuss... (President: It is not a matter of fear, but of applying the Rules of Procedure, at least I am absolutely sure that you know it even better than I do. Here you go. ) So, the proposal to elect Miroslav Bojic as a member of the State Council of Prosecutors comes to us from Serbia's Bar Association. We were reminded during today's debate that this gentleman had once been the subject of this House's agenda and that he had no majority to be elected as a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. It absolutely casts a shadow on this proposal. As far as we're concerned, we're wondering-- is this man worthy of such important functions? Why would I ask that? He allowed political parties in parliament to play with him as a ping-pong ball. Political parties, I think, to the ruling coalition, which, for every item of the agenda, have some kind of trade, some treaty, have now found this Boyic to be the subject of shooting and of some kind of political trade and, if he, as a serious man, has allowed himself, then we really think that it is not enough that he is not worthy of being elected to such an important state function. I'm sorry there's no one here we could ask, ask some questions about this gentleman, as well as the State's Major Prosecutor General. We don't know if the exact information we received today, that recently this gentleman in Chačka was blown up by some suspicious combinations with some local criminal structures? If there was someone here who suggested his choice, we could get that answer. We're only speaking here to formally meet the obligation of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we in the SRS don't just talk about formal fulfillment, we're the only political party that uses this restrictive right that we have in the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure won't let us do our job as a MP. As much as we can, we are fighting with both you and the Businessman, to still do this job the way the citizens of Serbia expect us to do. Perhaps we would change our attitude towards this Mr. Bojic if he would, for example, inform us and give us proof that he has filed criminal charges against Boris Tadic, because Tadic has allowed aggression against Serbs at KIM. If Mr. Bojic listens to us and if he initiates this criminal report, then we will be able to consider his choice by the day of voting. Of course, we invite everyone else to join such a criminal report, because Boris Tadic is responsible and his regime is responsible for re-launching the aggression against the naked Serbs at KIM today. It has to do with the agenda, I'm talking about a possible criminal report, Mr. Novakovic. From now on, I'm absolutely taking care of the agenda point. As for the State Council of Prosecutors and this extremely important job that should be done by the State Council, when we received a proposal to fill this place in the State Council of Prosecutors, we immediately heard from the association – Blagoje Jaksic, whom you chose in the VSS, even though already, when a man was arrested, he participated in some machinations, in the embezzlement of large amounts of money. Even if he were a man who could fit into this function and if we didn't have anything against him, we would mind coming into a bad society, because the State's Major Prosecutors and the VSS are a very bad company for every decent man. What did this Mr. Miroslav Bojic or what did the State's Major Prosecutors do, what did some barristers do, and what did the Law Chamber of Serbia and the Belgrade Attorney's Chamber argue over some of their functions, boards, presidents, etc., what did they do to protect human rights? Did any of them come forward to say which is the basis, on which the UN tribunal today extended the privileged ban on communication to SRS President Vojislav Seselj for another 30 days? You are a lawyer, Mr. Novakovic, you know that privileged communication of the accused with the expert team is something that is unconstructed, which no one should endanger, but the UN tribunal is threatening Vojislav Seselj with the right to prepare for defence. Of course, there's no voice from any law firm or anyone else who should possibly be involved in the protection of the human rights of their citizens. As far as this proposal is concerned, we also have to resent it, we already have, why this is not the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Bosko Ristic. We have some specific questions for him. I'd ask him if it's true what I found out the other day in Nis? If, like us Serbian radicals, you are dealing with the work of the MP by being in the people, meeting you and drawing attention to this or what they are mostly supporting us, giving us support and complaining citizens in Nis, they say there is a large number, and we have talked about when re-election of judges and prosecutors on the agenda, a lawyer from Nis became judges, prosecutors, as the largest number of these lawyers passed through the office of Bosko Ristic. I ask: Do you know who Bosko Ristic is? They say -- sure, that's the lawyer, the MP whose seal in Nis is paid 500 euros. I didn't understand what that meant, so I asked people to explain it to me and they explained it. They say people go to another lawyer to write them a submission, and since the submission with the stamp of Bosko Ristic's office has passed in court, the stamp is paid 500 euros. If he were a member of the State Council of Prosecutors of Bosko Ristic here, we would ask him if this is true and what is it? Furthermore, if she were a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, Mrs Malovic, we would also have some interesting questions for her. These days news appeared in the media that a court case has become obsolete and has paid so much attention to him as if it were the only court case in Serbia that has become obsolete. Since the resistance has launched an initiative to resolve Judge Gordana Vidojkovic, who is allegedly responsible for the limitation of this process, a better member of the State Council of Prosecutors, Mrs Malovic said in public that she would support the initiative. If she were here, we would ask her why she didn't support the SRS initiative if Marina Tomic and her larger, otherwise the Court of Appeals judge, had resolved because they hadn't "observed" that Tomislav Nikolic had robbed his timely SRS? Or why did she not report on her position on the initiative to resolve Darko Lausevic? These, Mr. Novakovic, are questions just for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. We just regret why Mrs Malovic is not here to ask. In order to explain Mrs Malovic's position, then resistor Homen reported in the media that he says the Justice Ministry supports the initiative and will join the resistance initiative to resolve this Gordana Vidojkovic and says – he hopes that the Court of Appeal will reach a final verdict and put an end to the case. Today it expands the statement and says – he had a meeting with his resistance friends to tell them not to submit to the European Court in Strasbourg a claim for compensation for damages, to address the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice will compensate them for the damages. I guess, to avoid them asking him -- where are those money that the Resistance got from Hungary at the time, that magically disappeared in his hands, then -- we're going to give them money from the state budget from the citizens of Serbia? It's a scandal you're doing, my people. How can the State Secretary in this way address the public to influence the work of the judicial authorities? How is that even possible in the state of Serbia? The state's larger prosecutors are also the subject here and that there is room for the State's larger prosecutors, and that there is room for us to wonder if Miroslav Bojic can contribute better to the work of the State's Council of Prosecutors, because it is obvious that the work of the State's larger prosecutors, as well as the High Council of the judiciary, has done very badly, because they have chosen many bad judges and a lot of bad prosecutors. Of course, we don't think all judges are bad, we don't think all prosecutors are bad, but never in the country of Serbia was such an influence by the authorities on judicial authorities as they are now. Imagine this Mr. Homen dares comment this way on the verdicts. The question for both the High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, if it is true that Gordana Vidojkovic, the judge, is responsible for why this case is outdated, then there are two questions. If this case had been with her for 11 years, how could she have been re-elected two years ago? Wasn't no one at the time making sure that she had an object that didn't end for nine years? And if that case was with someone else, which given the reorganisation is pretty logical, why is that judge not responsible for being a state for nine years, but for not ending in two years? So, either way, you got involved, or the Ministry and Mrs. Malovic got involved as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors in something that is absolutely unacceptable. Two days ago we read, the president of Leskovac municipality says he will ignore the verdict when it comes to returning employees to the local government of Leskovac, whom he fired. We were talking about this gentleman, the president, the mayor of Leskovec, that when he came on the party line he shared his resignations and that he hired new people from the DS to the local self-government in Leskovac. He now says he will address the European Court of Human Rights if they force him to bring back the people he fired. It deserves media attention that one president of a municipality can influence and try to influence the work of judicial authorities, to talk about non-legislative verdicts. Is that possible in the rule of law? It's not. Is Serbia a legal state? It's not. Do the institutions of the system function in Serbia? They don't work. Unfortunately, that's our reality. 15, 20 days ago, we read in the media such as Ana Nikolic's alcoholed vehicle, Daniela Vranic, alcoholized vehicles, some x, ipsion, but by name and last name listed, some Janko Jankovic from New Belgrade caught by police driving with 1.5 alcohol spills in his blood, so all with a full name and last name. But on Friday, the M.R., the Supreme Court judge in Belgrade, was caught last night driving a drunk car through the capital -- as we find out off the record, the judge stopped a traffic patrol and did a blood alcohol test about 1:45. Who's M.R.? Why isn't the full name and last name written who this judge is? This judge, as the Supreme Court judge, writes, is responsible for resolving disputes when it comes to public traffic security, the one driving with 1.5 spills of alcohol in the blood. You're hiding that information about who she is. All others can be published by name and last name, to be exposed to the pillar of shame because they drive drunk, and they should, but why is this lady hiding? Did she come to work today, since she was sober Friday night at the MuP Zemun, is she at work today, is she hungover? Can it work? When she discusses a matter relating to the threat of public traffic security, will she be sober or drunk? All these questions are why today they were supposed to be representatives, i.e. members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, at least those who have an obligation to parliament, and so are Bosko Ristic and Mrs Malovic. As much as you try to give us maltene synapses how to address you, or how to address Serbia's citizens above all, you can't stop us from saying things that you don't like within a certain point of the agenda. We know you don't like the question of when and if there's going to be a session on KIM issues, we know you don't like it, but we have to ask that. We are representing citizens of Serbia and Serbian citizens should know the truth about everything that is going on in the state of Serbia. We need to ask you if someone will raise their voice, except for Serbian radicals and a huge number of Serbian citizens who support our action – we want Seselj, we will not join the EU, will anyone else say – hello people, Seselu is still a 30-day extension of the ban on privileged communication? Is someone going to officially say that? Of course not, because you're afraid of Seselj in Serbia, you're afraid of what Seselj could do before the next election. But don't worry, we're the Shessels' radicals, we'll win even though he's 3,000 kilometers away from us, but he's in our party and Serbia. When it comes to this State's Major Prosecutors, you see, when we get it, and we generally get citizens' letters and we're obliged to let citizens know that we don't throw their letters in the basket, but that we're seriously reading what it says and that in that sense we're asking certain questions to the competent. And I miss Mrs. Malovic again. Mrs Dusanka Djurdjevic from Rusna has an interesting problem and since I am not a lawyer like Slobodan Homen, but I am a graduate lawyer with a lot of work experience and I know what I can’t comment on, but what I can’t comment on, this lady told us that she had a problem with a certain judge Ivo Lalovic, who allegedly had a problem with a state of land and book, was solved within one day. So she spoke to the Justice Department, and then, of course, the Ministry sent for the proper supervision of someone there, and they found that it was all right... (President: But we are in the selection of members of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors and I ask that these individual problems, this is neither the place nor the time nor we can solve them. ) The state's major prosecutor is appointed, proposing the appointment of prosecutors. Mr. Miroslav Bojic from Cačka... (President: Attorney's Office proposes the appointment of a member of the State Council...) I'm talking about the DA's appointment, you're not listening to me, Mr. Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63764	Mrs. Verice Radeta, I listen very carefully to you, and that's why I'm interrupting you because you're wandering away in the heat of discussion from the subject, so at the moment when I'm more and with my best imagination, I can't see you coming back. I need to intervene, so please. Everything you've said in your mind and I'm sure Mr. Bojic listens and will apply it in his practice of your suggestion, I've let you talk about the case as well. But now that we've started talking about the individual problem of a Serbian citizen with one judge, I think we've gone too far and we won't be able to get to Mr. Boyic and his qualities or his unquality. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63765	Mr. Bojić, I have mentioned several times by name here, but we certainly have a more interesting function that he should perform, and Mr. Novakovic, I never stray, but I am very consciously saying every word, and do you need the imagination to understand me, I don't know, but I think the Serbian citizens understand me perfectly, as well as all of us in the SRS. It's our goal to be understood by the citizens, and you're getting along with your imagination. So, what I wanted to say and what I started, that Miroslav Bojic was proposed to the State's Major Prosecutors, that the State's Chief Prosecutors propose to elect prosecutors, public prosecutors and their deputies, that if it were a good choice of all the prosecutors and their deputies, then they would also have jobs and when it comes to the High Council of Justice and the decision of the High Council on the election of some judges. In particular, this Jaksic, where he is and what a significant role the prosecution is, because in order not to have a prosecutor there who is obviously worthy of his duties, this Jaksic would still be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary today. Is that right? You see how much it has to do with it, and you don't need much imagination, just a little patience, Mr. Novakovic, and we always say what the subject of the agenda is. The theme of all the topics in Serbia today is what happens to the Lambs and we insist on Mr. Novakovic, I suppose there will soon be a break, that you are talking to Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if he is not somewhere in the white world as I read in the paper and that an emergency session on problems escalating at KIM is scheduled, there they are again beginning to kill unarmed Serbs, and they are being killed by armed members of the Eulexa. We know that you want your team, this time not personally, but at first you, too, with your attitude, to interrupt us all the time, to provoke us to get out of this room. No, we want to stay so that we can use every moment of our opportunity to warn Serbian citizens that this is the only place to hear the free word. All the media are regimeal, all the media are under a handful of regimes and so no one has yet to announce that today the KIM occupier has started shooting Serbs again and that the Serbian Parliament of the National Assembly of Serbia has to discuss it urgently, not that some Borko is going there and that I do not know on whose behalf and what he is negotiating and what he advocates and what he is signing. When we find out which signatures he put past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63766	And how are you going to link this to the Attorney's Chamber proposal now? Of course not. On the lists of parliamentary groups no longer registered, none of those entitled to Article 96 appear to be in favour, so I conclude the search for a proposal to elect a member of the State Council of Prosecutors from the ranks of lawyers. On the basis of article 87, I'm setting a break and we're going to continue work today at 15.00 hours of discussion of details under the Rehabilitation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63767	We continue the work of the session in the afternoon search in particular, and according to the first item of the agenda, the bill on rehabilitation. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for a hearing in detail, and for the first item of the agenda, the Bill on Rehabilitation, to invite today's session, in addition to the proposing representative, Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, Srdjan Srekovic, Minister of Faith and Diaspora and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, to attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Justice. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Rehabilitation Law. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Peljević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tosković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovan Radovanović, MP Dusan Marić, Nikola Žutić, Vjerica Radeta, Meko Omerović, joint MPs Esad Judžević and Bajram Omaragić, joint MPs and Radovana Radarnović, together with the National MPs Ivan Janović, Zlata Janić, Zlata Janić, Mira Janić and Mira Mirjanić, Mirjanić, Mirjanjić, Mirić, Miražić, Mirić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the first amendment to Article 1, I remind you that the parliamentary groups represent the following MPs: MP Konstantin Arsenović – PUPS Parliament Group; MP Laslo Varga – Parliament Group of Manjin; MP Milisav Petronijevic – MEP Group of SPS-JS and Parliament MP Vjerica Radeta – MP group of SRS. At the same time, I remind you that each of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups has 15 minutes at their disposal, as well as that each parliamentary group has its time, proportionately defined in relation to the total debate of five hours and that, of course, each applicant of the amendment has the right to discuss the amendments for two minutes. I would also like to inform you that the Minister's meeting, which she had completed five minutes ago, will be joining us in ten minutes, how long it will take her from the meeting point to the National Assembly. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63768	At the beginning of the debate in particular, I will repeat one principled remark. In fact, at the time of the Rules of Procedure, it was necessary to adopt a proposal to discuss in particular immediately after the principle debate, because I think it would save a lot of time by not having the exact same argument that we have in the principle debate repeated in particular. But we've got plenty of time, so we're going the same way again. So, first of all, we have to say that this is a law which is a picture of a reverse process that implies that we determine the fee first, and then the reason why we pay the compensation as compensation for something that was done and it shouldn't be. So everything that the coalition government has not resolved by the Property Return Act, or as we say so in public -- the Restitution Act. Now he's trying to correct, not by doing as God commands, from the beginning to the end, but the other way around – he's trying to correct the Rehabilitation Act. In Article 1, there are immediately large reasons why we insist that the amendment we have tabled be adopted, and it has been rejected. I will now speak not of the very solution in the amendments, but of the consequences that will indeed come because the government was not prepared to adopt this amendment. The amendment to Article 1 specifically regulates the issues of the right to rehabilitation and indeed removes some of the illogicalities and gaps that are obvious. First of all, the introductory phrase must state that rehabilitation refers to the damages committed by acts and actions of state authorities and military units, but must be highlighted in what period, so we have, in that sense, complemented the text. The current formulation is so undefined and can indeed cover any procedure, including the actions or crimes of individuals who cannot be subject to rehabilitation. As the initial date of application of the law, we suggested that it be the 4th of July 1941 as the day of the start of the struggle against the occupiers. We have also suggested in Article 1 that point 2) be deleted, because rehabilitation for actions made outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia must be the obligation of the state on whose territory the action is made, not the obligations of the Republic of Serbia. It is unacceptable for the Republic of Serbia, by discussing events that took place outside its territory, to impose on itself or to say otherwise, gives itself the right to discuss it at all, unless an interstate agreement is drawn up. In addition to respecting the principle of territorial jurisdiction, it means that a crime took place on the very territory of the Serbian state, you must bear in mind a number of practical reasons. Evidence of the actions carried out and the consequences of these actions are located on the territory of another country. How can you engage in proving something where you have no direct jurisdiction or have not found it by interstate agreement to investigate evidence of a crime? It is also one of these provisions that the Republic of Serbia undertakes to compensate for the damage caused by these actions, which means it is not easy to establish itself on the territory of another country and provides for the achievement of numerous rights to rehabilitated persons on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, although the state itself has absolutely nothing to do with these events. At the same time, it is very easy to happen that there is a conflict with the laws and judicial decisions of another state. In doing so, as one of the reasons you stated in your explanation that persons, I say, had a residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Did you say anywhere that this was the period during which a certain person had a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? That uncertainty and that width will turn you or the destruction of the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay off such damages or to the contrary to the inability to compensate for damage based on where it really is necessary to do so. On the other hand, it can mean that persons whose rule has been denied outside Serbia, who do not even have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, are included. They don't even have a residence in the Republic of Serbia right now, but in some period, I say again, they haven't defined which one, they had a place to live. If you have in mind that after World War II, a very large number of people have moved into Serbia from the territories of other republics and that a large number of those persons had a place of residence in some period, indeed the Republic of Serbia will take on itself a huge burden of possible rehabilitation for all persons who have suffered damages outside of Serbia, as well as for all compensation obligations and other rights, and we know that they are very broad under this Rehabilitation Act. I purposely emphasise the words "possibly cases" and "eventual rehabilitation" citing as an entirely uncertain number of persons and the amount of damage that could be compensated because you did not honour this Assembly or the widest possible certain estimated effects of this law in terms of the number of persons and possible and possible rehabilitations and damages that could arise on this basis. I really don't know why the Republic of Serbia would have to suffer the consequences of something it's not guilty of, which it didn't participate in, and that it does so from a budget that can't even perform its basic elemental functions that the state normally has. Also, in point 4, changes should be made for the same reasons, so that the obligation to rehabilitate is limited only to decisions made and implemented on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Paragraph 2 must be deleted, as much as you defend it, because it is pointless to state as an additional condition for rehabilitation that a decision depriving a person of rights for prohibited reasons is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and to the accepted standards of human rights and freedoms. So it's enough that it's illegal reasons to take away the rights. They repeat what you as lawyers should be clear – if this is the attitude in the law, it means that you are allowed to take someone's life or any other right because it belonged to a particular nation or religion if a formal procedure is respected. It's not a free interpretation at all, it's from attitude two, which is like this in the law. Perhaps this is in line with today’s situation where indeed when you say that someone should act according to the law, it does not mean justice or justice, because in this congregation we have voted many laws that are far from the interest of those to whom they apply, far from the justice they allegedly want to achieve those laws. Forgive my rudeness, many laws are actually far from the logic of a man of average intelligence. Item 3 should also be deleted because it is absolutely unnecessary to prescribe that this law applies and applies to NOR fighters, because if you have prescribed that this is a general right, that rehabilitation is a general right, there is no need to repeat that this applies to someone in particular. Article 4 is necessary to change because rehabilitation cannot be applied to any damage caused by armed conflict due to combat acts, regardless of the type of damage and whether it is involved in the conflict between civilians and if the rules and customs of war are respected. The responsibility for the damages resulting from combat events is always borne by the state that started the conflict, except for the damages that have been done just by breaking the rules and customs of war. The text of the proposal is inconclusive and incomplete because it stipulates that rehabilitation does not only apply to the deprivement of life, which could be interpreted as being a rehabilitation and compensation of damage both for the wound and for the capture, although these are completely legitimate consequences of armed conflict, because only one imposition of peace had the name "merciful angel" and it was an attempt to impose peace by war, which is one of the nonsense that is not only nonsense in terms of and philosophical understanding, but by the practical consequences that NATO bombing as an operation to impose peace had on the territory of the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia at the time. In paragraph 5, you have prescribed that the Republic of Serbia is not responsible for the acts and actions of the occupation forces, but you have failed to add again – and the Quincepian formations, because there is no reason for the Republic of Serbia to be responsible for the procedures of those formations that were in the service of the occupation forces. In Article 1 and Article 2 following all possible mistakes that this law could make, they were made and summed up in these two members. If you do not accept the amendment to Article 1 that we have submitted, you are not aware of how much damage you are doing not only to this generation but also to future generations, and you are not aware that the price of the preservation of one government is too expensive and is contrary to what yours is, for example, the basic rule when you speak in the long term about the future, European criteria, criteria and fiscal responsibility that you do not want to pass on to future generations. You're not even aware of the damage you're doing, not only to this generation but also to future generations, and you're not aware that the price of preserving a government is too expensive and is contrary to what yours is, for example. The basic rule, when you talk long-term about the future, about European criteria, criteria and fiscal responsibility that you do not want to pass on to future generations. By rejecting the amendments to Article 1, you have shown that you are only important to yourself as a government, that you are not interested in justice or in the historical court on what happened, or in Serbia's fight against the occupiers, you are not even interested in Serbia's ability to pay for this damage, but you need to adopt this law as a guarantee of your duration until a possible regular deadline for calling the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63769	Eleven minutes used from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta also submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63770	I'll also use the time of the authorized representative. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talked about the Rehabilitation Law proposal, we said that, or we reminded that Serbia has a Rehabilitation Law, but that it is not applicable, which certainly suggests on a reasonable doubt that this law will not be applied, at least not in all its parts. This law, i.e. the bill, was created as a result of a political compromise, and therefore it is much worse text than the one we had for the September 11th session. And we had objections to that law, and that's when we submitted the amendments. The text with our amendments could also be arranged and applied, and this law is, if ever God comes to its application, very harmful to the interests of Serbian citizens, and therefore also to state interests. When we talked about the law that exists in Serbia, about the Rehabilitation Act, then we turned our attention and now we do, that under the existing Rehabilitation Act it was really possible to rehabilitate people who were victims of the political persecution of the communist Tito regime. We asked and asked – why is not Serbian Army General Draža Mihajlovic rehabilitated? Why in January of this year, for some unknown reasons, has this procedure been interrupted indefinitely? How, then, can this law guarantee that rehabilitation, those to be rehabilitated, will indeed come? We're afraid of something else. We fear this very political, as it is said, rotten compromise, that you have succeeded because you have been blackmailed by some coalition partners, so as we hear it, the SVM has asked that this law be voted against by others, that is, before the other points of this agenda, and we will see whether it is true, very quickly, to have a guarantee, in fact, that they can continue to participate in supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If that's the case, then it's a scandal. Especially since there is one major, latent danger in this law, which is that if applied, this law will rehabilitate the representatives of the folksdojcere and the Hortiians, which is extremely dangerous, given that both were open to the fascist bloc at the time and that they participated in killing Serbs in the territory of Vojvodina and that many were members of the notorious "ss Division". Of course, the SRS is absolutely against this law, and I am a member of 1st, who is in one piece corrected by that former member from early September, where we also had an amendment and what we then provided for in the SRS by amendment, you have installed it in one part of this article, but you have therefore written that this law regulates the rehabilitation and legal consequences of the rehabilitation of persons who are from political, religious, national or ideological reasons deprived of life, freedom or other rights until the day of entry into force of this law. We think that this - until the day of entry into force of this law should be deleted, because you have presented yourself to this Article 1 as some unsuspecting human rights fighters and as someone who will not violate human rights. If human rights have ever been violated in Serbia, it has been for the past 11 years since DOS has been in power in its different forms. Here, when we spoke in the principle debate, Mr. Micunovic said a few sentences that I would quote. He said that – the issue of state reasons therefore very important and the theory of liberalism, which is why he insists on the rights of individuals, an individual who must not be so easily sacrificed to state interests, because the greatest possible abuse is the sacrifice of individuals for the benefit of the state. This relationship between the individual and the state must be such that in the individual there is a source of that will, which will be established by the state and the state to take care of it, and not to sacrifice it for its current, local, foreign-political or any other reason. It's the only way we can make progress towards freedom and towards a more just society. This would be good if it were like this. Unfortunately, both Mr. Micunović and all of you who are in the ruling coalition, who have been in this or that form in power since 2000, have been acting absolutely contrary to this stated attitude. What are we showing and proving? The fact that you have done everything for your own foreign policy reasons, that is because of the influence of the EU and your ass-kicking at all costs in the EU. One of the conditions set by the EU was the extradition of Serbs to The Hague tribunal. You have until recently extradited Serbs to The Hague tribunal, and every normal one had to know that Serbs in The Hague are unable to guarantee human rights, on the contrary, that Serbs in The Hague tribunal will be violated in the worst possible way both human and procedural rights. So that proves that you're doing exactly the opposite of what you want to represent in public that you are. When we talk about The Hague tribunal and human and procedural rights violations, we always take the president of our party Vojislav Seselj as an example. Today, Vojislav Seselj's ban on privileged communication with his legal advisers has been extended for another 30 days. Gentlemen of the Ministry, you're lawyers, you should know that the most sacred and most protected right in international law is the right to defend. This way, Vojislav Seselj is violated by the right to defend himself. His process is in the final phase. He's been in custody for nine years. Now that the final phase has come to an end, he is being denied privileged communication with legal advisers, which means he can't speak a word without being abused, and thus has not been treated by representatives of Tito's communist regime, when he was in prison in Zenica and being persecuted as a political dissident, and you, as a state, remain silent as representatives of the state and government, against all such violations of the rights of Serbian citizens, in this case the Serbian citizen, president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Then here you talk about some kind of liberalism, that the rights of individuals are above the right of the state, that they should not be abused, etc. You're cheating. Why did we ask this Article 1 to be changed by deleting this so that it would apply until the day of entry into force of this law? Just for these reasons and some of which I'll continue to say. If he remained a member of the 1st law, then Vojislav Seselj could not seek rehabilitation from Serbia, because of everything that is happening to him thanks to the regime in Serbia, thanks to the fact that in Serbia there is a indictment against him and that, according to Carla del Ponte, Djindjic has also asked Seselj to lead to The Hague tribunal and not to return him to Serbia. Also, we asked that question in that principle debate, you will not be in power forever, you will be sent by people who will be much better for this people, who will know that Serbia is guided by the right economic and social path, but also by the patriotic path. If you leave this member like this, without accepting our amendment, then I ask you, and we have already asked, how would Slobodan Milosevic rehabilitate? Be assured that he will come to the power of the parties and the people who will seek, who will execute this to take Slobodan Milosevic, to place his remains in the Alley of the greats, where he belongs. How do we do that if we have a law like this? I don't know why someone here is throwing, we know that the Resistance is still very strong in Serbia and that it's shaking Serbia and that the Resistance is being replaced by judges and that it's being accepted by the Ministry of Justice, it is now, but no torment is forever. So we insist that this Article 1 be changed according to our amendment, if you want it to make any sense. For the sake of the public, I will read what the Government says, which is why this amendment is not accepted – an amendment is not accepted for the reason that the decision in the bill is more consistent. Indeed, we do not see how something that narrows down some rights to the proposal for an amendment that extends. Furthermore, you say – in order to address the issue of rehabilitation, it is necessary to include as many citizens as possible in order to fully address persons who are unfounded and illegally deprived of life, freedom or other rights, without limiting the time period to which the bill is adopted. We ask how is this more comprehensively resolved by your proposal than our amendment? In what way did the amendment endanger comprehensiveness? If you said the law applies to all cases until the day of entry into force, and we say without the law being generally covered, regardless of the date of entry into force, say, logically, what is more comprehensive? We understand that you will not accept our amendment, because you have your own goal, because you have an EU order, because you have intra-party compromises and because it is all at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, which is all at the expense of the interests of the Serbian state, but when you refuse the amendment, at least do yourself a favor to write a sentence that we cannot have any objections to, and not to act as if you think we will not read what you wrote. Of course we will and of course we will criticise you. Of course we use every opportunity, as we do now, to ask when the Serbian Parliament will finally discuss the problems at KIM, to draw attention that today has escalated the conflict against KIM, that Serbs are injured by rubber bullets, tear gassers, more addressed to the doctor and that all this is happening under the auspices of Eulex and with your desire to go to that monster organisation, which is called the EU. Again, 54% of Serbian citizens today follow the idea of the SRS and supports our action, our campaign called – We want Seselja, we will not join the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63771	It was used 12 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63772	I am opposed to accepting this amendment, because the amendment that is required is inaccurate. The law has been required since World War II, and it is not said whether from the beginning of World War II or from its end. If it has been since the start of World War II, then it is again a restriction on some people who, by decision of the state or administrative authorities of the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Serbia, have been violated by human rights, immediately before World War II broke out. If since the end of World War II, then the period in which human rights have really been violated is the period when Partizan troops enter Serbia and, in part, in the anti-fascist struggle, really free Serbia from fascists, but in part, they commit terrible crimes against the Serb population, precisely in October 1944 and Belgrade, in Kragujevac, as well as across Serbia where the mass shooting of Serb civil class members of the Montenegrin movement, right-wing organisations and all those suspected of not being supporters of the new government or who had sympathy for the regime that existed before World War II. Also, it is not true that the current Rehabilitation Act is not applicable, as some 800 people have been rehabilitated under the law and about 1,500 procedures are under way. It is also not true that the existing Rehabilitation Act, which needs to be amended, is better than the proposed solution. First of all, because of the fact that the existing Rehabilitation Act only allows so-called. Moral rehabilitation. The Court finds by its decision that a decision or court or an administrative authority has been annulled, by which one is declared either a public enemy or a traitor, etc. But it's only one segment, and it's a moral rehabilitation. Rehabilitation in the broadest sense involves not only moral rehabilitation, which is very important, but also property rehabilitation, compensation for damages, return of property, recognition of pension internships in double duration, as prescribed by this law, monthly compensation or special allowance, as prescribed by this law, health care, health insurance, rehabilitation compensation, etc. That is why, from the point of view of the SPO, the current Rehabilitation Act cannot be treated at all as some good rehabilitation law. It was really brought in late compared to the surrounding countries, primarily the country of the Eastern European bloc and it is truly surprising that in 2006, the legislator passed such a bad law, and we had the opportunity to look up to many other people's good experiences. This kind of law that currently exists on rehabilitation really doesn't deserve, and we think that the only good thing that this so-called "rehabilitation" really did. moral rehabilitation. Of course the SPO is interested in rehabilitating Dragoljub Draža Mihailovic. The procedure is ongoing and of course we are addressed to the reasons why this procedure has not ended so far. I think the public should know that the persons who applied for rehabilitation also had some procedural failures, etc. It should be realistic, indeed, that court has not failed, and we believe that the process will continue soon and that the leader of the Third Serbian uprising will fully and fully rehabilitate. That is why I say, in addition to being unclear, which also limits the period from which the amendment applicant should apply to this proposal, all the other arguments that have been made here, according to the SPO, falls into the water and therefore the current Rehabilitation Law is much better because it provides a much, much wider circle of rights to the persons who need to be rehabilitated and when we have a full rehabilitation of the return of property, the compensation of mental suffering. Imagine what it means when you lock a whole family in jail, when children are educated in criminal and correctional institutions, when the family is taken away from their property and stamped a traitor. Imagine not only the property problems that this family has, which are all and legal problems, which are all health problems, which are all psychological problems. That is why this Rehabilitation Law has provided the possibility that the total damage suffered by a person as a result of the violation of his basic rights will be compensated. I say once again, because of the arguments I have made, this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63773	Five minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63774	For the sake of public and clarification, our amendment does not mention the beginning of the application of this law at all, and if colleagues do not like the way it is written in the bill, then it should have been an amendment to intervene. In the first version of the law, we intervened with the amendment and it was accepted here, because in the first version it was that the law was applied from the end of World War II, and here it was accepted and stood since World War II, of course it implies that this was the beginning of World War II, logically. We were just talking about the deadline limit in this part where you said that the law applies until the day of entry into force. It was our intervention, not the beginning of the application of this law. A colleague himself said that the law on rehabilitation, of course, is undeniable and it is true that some solutions were made under that law, but solutions were made as liked by the representatives of the regime, and then someone who disputed the rehabilitation of Dragoljub Mihajlovic and I don't know why the colleague didn't say so, and then because of someone who came forward, who was a partisan at that time and who didn't like the possibility of rehabilitation, he made a complaint about General Mihajlovic's rehabilitation, and therefore the procedure was suspended indefinitely in January of this year, so, almost a year ago. If there were only some procedural interference, it would certainly be possible for these interferences to be removed during this period. We said it in principle, the Serbian Radical Party is also for the return of property rights, civil rights, pension rights, which is also property rights. There's nothing controversial about us in the SRS, but we're absolutely opposed to rehabilitation equating with restitution, which is the bill of this law. You are in this law equating the persons whose property was seized under then applicable laws, which were bad, are not disputed, but have never been put out of force. When we talked about the Restitution Act, we explained it in detail, and you are in this law equating persons who need to be rehabilitated because they were victims of the communist regime, with persons whose property was seized under certain laws that were in force at the time. It's unacceptable for the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63775	With these three minutes, the time of authorised representatives of the parliamentary group has been used. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63776	How did we figure out why the law should apply until the day of its entry into force? It is precisely because Serbia has improved human rights through a series of its laws in recent years, which is a law on the ban on discrimination, which is also a constitutional category of gender equality, which is why people who are trampled by human rights or are unfounded of freedoms can also get both material and immaterial satisfaction according to positive legal regulations. It seems to us that the legal regulations of this matter in modern times are regulated, but not in the past. That's why, in our understanding, this law primarily concerns the past. As for the relationship between rehabilitation and restitution, she's great. Here's why. In the debate in principle, I said that the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities is good because of the fact that everything that has been taken away from them is coming back. There I have made a parallel with the current Law on Restitution, which has certain restrictions in that part, and therefore there is also some discrimination. Why should churches and religious communities, and we from the SPO, trust people, be privileged to other citizens or other institutions that have taken away property. Therefore, according to the SPO, rehabilitation and restitution should not have any kind of restriction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63777	One minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63778	Mrs. Komic, I will continue to supplement one piece what Mrs. Radeta said by explaining the SRS amendment to Article 1 of some concrete data, because it is absolutely accurate, Mr. Chikiriz, explaining to you the form that it cannot be misused and which is why the SRS and she personally submitted the amendment to Article 1. If you were wrong, Mr. Chikiriz, when you were saying, not agreeing with our argument, you would have to know how many of our Serbian radicals, when you said that there are numerous verdicts and processes in front of the competent courts, I am sorry that it is not the minister here to answer us, you would probably have to know how many such proceedings were inherited and during its term, if they were to begin against those who were members of Broz's communist forces who committed crimes against the innocent Serbian people, I will tell you, and you should know the situation in Kragujevac a long time ago when you are in Kragujevac, and you should know the first criminal charges against those communist leaders who committed those crimes against the Serb people, so it will not be possible for all people who have suffered under this regime. This law is completely pointless. We have reminded you in the course of the debate, just as we are talking about Article 1, because the proposer has stated that this law regulates the rehabilitation and legal consequences of the rehabilitation of persons who are for political, religious, national or ideological reasons deprived of life, freedom and other rights until the day of entry into force of this law. I'm sorry, but Nazism is also an ideological or political reason. Does this mean that under this law all those who represented this worst anti-human ideology, if we can call it one of the greatest evils of the 20th century, will be rehabilitating this law? As this formulation now stands, so can Mr. Chikiriz, who insists on defending Article 1. The bill, then, is possible, or is rehabilitated by members of the Nazi and Horti forces, which Mrs Radeta spoke of, in Vojvodina, but it is again related to the condition that the Hungarian state has set for you on the return of property and what they see as a future projection in our entire Autonomous Region. Because Mr Chikiriz, a member of the SPO, tried to challenge the SRS amendment, to read to you only one part of a copy of one of the first criminal charges filed against these communist villains back in 1991, and to this day absolutely no epilogue exists. I will read you the criminal charges filed by lawyer Milan V. Tisovic against Milovan Djilas in 1991 for the execution of a war crime against the civilian population of Article 142. Criminal Code SFRY: He was an active participant in the war from 1941 to 1945. He was in the most senior management of the organizers and directly participated in the decision-making process by which the more visible people, the hosts, who understood the senselessness of killing in the front row of the brothers by faith, and then the other people who refused to approach the movement that he was appointed to. He has committed directly, or indirectly, such evils in the home of Montenegro, that there is a curse in the people, that God may judge you, Gilas. This curse best shows the judge's appointment. Since his trial, there have been many graves left full of caves in which victims of the most humane freedom, as communists have called it, led by Broz and Gilas, have been cast out. Then in this lawsuit, I'm just talking about the performances, the individual cases that were suspected, and the state authorities haven't done anything in the past 20 years that Gilas has committed them. Criminal charges were also filed 20 years ago against Miodrag Tripkovic, called Cat, Rasa Lepenac, Milan Lukovic, etc., because of the facts, as it stands here, did not want witnesses from Kruševac, as well as any other city in Serbia and Kruševac had victims that the occupiers had killed and it is estimated that the city's release stood somewhere around 870 people in Kruševac. When my amendment is in order, I'm going to talk to Article 13, about these victims from the area and there are hundreds of them, the former Georgian cut, from the area of the town of Kragujevac. But here, I will mention only now, and I will continue since the same lawyer 20 years ago filed that criminal complaint against Mialko Todorovic, called Blue, born in the village of Dragusica, which was then established 20 years ago in Belgrade, because he was one of the most famous participants of the last war in the area of Šumadija and in it the people of this region, indeed, who experienced such horrors, waited for the release in the Second World War, but he began to suffer hugely, and he not only failed the hope of the people of his Gruža, but he did also directly and indirectly all these crimes. Therefore, the argument put forward by Mrs Radeta in article 1, explaining why we must define in such a clear way that in the beginning of the first member of the law, it is enough to say that you will not have the senselessness of this law and the introduction of one spirit of something that is not necessary to develop a civil conflict between partisans and Chetniks, as otherwise in the last country war, which our president spoke of in the Hague case, Dr Vojislav Seselj, all Serbs and all those who stood up for freedom, and there were Serbs and Muslims and Serbs Catholics, as they were, and I will talk about it later, at the time of World War II, were called Chetniks because they defended themselves from NATO, from the US, from the Ustas Croatian authorities, from those who broke the unique national and religious space of the former Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63779	Seven minutes and 50 seconds spent from the time of the parliamentary group. In the words of the People's Messenger, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go. You have the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63780	The main part of my discussion focused on Ms Verica Radete's claim that the current rehabilitation law was better and that the SRS would not vote for the Rehabilitation Law, and I was only making arguments there. It is a clear strategy of the SRS that they are, in all things, the best, smartest and greatest patriots, and all of us are ignorant, traitors, etc., but I have always tried to make an argument in the Assembly. The current Rehabilitation Act does not recognise the return of property. So, the SRS isn't about returning property to rehabilitated persons, we are. There's no recognition of a dual-term retirement internship, and we're back on the subject of a rehabilitated person's recognition of that internship. A monthly fee or a special allowance is not recognised, and we are in favour of admitting it. Health care and health insurance are not recognised, and we are in favour of admitting it. The so-called "so-called" is not recognised. Rehabilitation damage, and we're willing to admit it. Because of these things that are very large, which make up the essence of rehabilitation, we think this bill is much better. Anyone who feels the opposite should state their argument but, please, don't use terminology to make sure someone knows better, but let's face the argument so we can get to the best solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63781	One minute and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63782	Of course none of this is true and that this is a public deception, and when we get further to the amendments to Articles 21 and 25, we will see that the SRS is absolutely for the return and property rights of those who need to be rehabilitated and all of what counterpart Chikirz just stated has nothing to do with the SRS, but we really wouldn't be discussing this issue with him, because today someone is talking about the rehabilitation of the Chetniks and the rehabilitation of Draja Mihajlovic, and that in the Movement for the Turnover of the so-called. Sit down with Jova Kapicica, it's really funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63783	Used 50 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63784	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dr Zutic has submitted an amendment to Article 1 to change and read in point 1), I have to read because of the present MPs and the public that he proposes on behalf of the SRS, that – on the territory of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia by 1946, FNRJ, SFRJ, SRJ, Serbs of various religions and citizens of the former Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, with or without a judicial or administrative decision. We talked about when the principle debate was that this is the way Article 1 and the position of Law 2, as well as Article 2 is absolutely unacceptable, and this is total nonsense in the formulation, because you say that the right to rehabilitation has persons outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia who have suffered without a judicial or administrative decision, if they have or have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mrs. Comic, when did Serbia become an independent state? When she received the status of the Republic, you well know the 1990 Constitution, and after that false referendum, Separatist Milo Djukanovic gained independence in 2006. Then how is it possible to keep something like this in the bill? Do you then want to apply selectively, under the precepts, the law or to worry that both Partisans and members of the Radnogorje Movement are rehabilitated, and Serbs are Orthodox, Serb Roman Catholic or Muslim religious, wherever they lived in the area of the former Yugoslavia, because the state has insisted after World War II. Is that true or not? That's the facts. I will give you some examples, and it was the intensity of Dr. Žutić from the SRS, to be executed, to be able to rehabilitate, but we see that at the beginning it is not possible, all Serbs, regardless of whether they belonged to partisan or Chetniks and what faiths were from former SFRY, what its name was in the extreme form of that great state. According to the existing provisions and proposals of the law, this will absolutely not be possible, so the question arises – who will rehabilitate the Serbs of Montenegro who, in this way, have, under Milvana Gilas, whom I mentioned earlier, under Tempo, been killed, and these are the entire equigorical orders of the honorable Serbs and fighters against the Fascists of the Vasojevici tribe. Who will rehabilitate the Macedonian Serbs? Who will rehabilitate Serbs from the Republika Srpska region of Republika Srpska, the Krajina Serb region? Who will rehabilitate Major Lazar Tesanovic, who was commander of the Chetnik squad in BiH and one of the closest co-workers of General Draža Mihajlovic, who was killed manically in 1947? We advocate that this rehabilitation has Serbs that perhaps the public knows less about. Dr. Žutić wrote books about it. In the ideology of Serbian nationalism, Dr Vojislav Seselj also mentioned those people who were members of the Montenegrin Chetnik movement and close associates Draja Mihajlovic and who were other religions. Among them is Niko Bartulovic, who was a prominent writer, who was born in Hvar and who was close to the Duke of Biracnin and later the Duke of Žujovic, who were commanders of the Chetnik units in Dalmatia and fought there against the occupation and fascists. By the way, Niko Bartulovic was, apart from being an intellectual and a writer, a close friend with Vladimir Djorovic and Ivo Andric. Also, another writer who was liquidated or sentenced under the communist regime to seven years in prison, in that group of 23 who was tried together with General Mihajlovic from Brela to Makarska, who was sentenced under the communist regime for verbal deliction, as is now being tried in this case, the anti-Serbian court, our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. There, the communists also worked after World War II and sentenced Djuru Vilovic to seven years in prison. I still have to tell you, Mrs. Comic, if they both had, and it wasn't Mrs. Minister, that would be the information for her, so their rehabilitation needs to be initiated, both of them had Yugoslav citizenship. So they never had Croatian citizenship. There are also many members of the Montenegrin movement that need to be rehabilitated and that belonged to the Muslim religion, such as the writer Mustafa Mulic, who was born in Livno and who was a National MP and was elected to the National MP in 31st and 37th years, sitting here, in congregation benches. Indeed, there are many more, but due to lack of time, I cannot list all these names of members of Dalmatian Chetnik squads or brigades who participated, and they were Serbs, Roman Catholics, movement participants, shoulder to shoulder with the Chetniks of General Mihajlovic, because they will not do so, Mrs. Komic, Ustaška, Croatian state, and you can see that Serbia is now narrowing down. Simply, just on the case of these two prominent intellectuals, or three, I have shown you that it is necessary to accept the amendment of Dr. Žutić, so that it is possible and that they can exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63785	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63786	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that I am sorry that there is no one in the name of the Government who could answer our suggestions. However, we have received the government's opinion and apparently all of us who are explaining our amendments here, despite having received the government's opinion, do not accept it and consider our solutions to be better. I believe that the government's representatives here will convey what is today in the debate, but I think it would certainly be better and I think it's the government's favorite word and it's more celery that we can also exchange views and talk about it in real time. I have submitted, along with my colleague Radovan Radovanovic, an amendment to Article 1 to the position that reads: "The right to rehabilitation has the face of point 1. 3 and 4 of this Article, if a judicial or administrative decision is taken against the principles of the rule of law and generally accepted standards of human rights and freedoms. "These persons to whom this position applies are those persons who are deprived of the freedoms of life and other rights based on the judicial or administrative decision of the authorities of the Republic or of the military and other Yugoslav authorities. In fact, I don't know where I'd start, which is why this position is controversial for me, and which is why I suggested that he be changed. First of all, it should be disputed that we are ever legally annulling court decisions for a while. That means he doesn't have any legal certainty. This means that after 20 or 30 years, another congregation assembly can pass a law that would annul judgments made today. If I had a court ruling, that's why I wish there was someone from the government who could answer me right now, because that's something I've been thinking about for a long time, if we find some judgment based on which someone is deprived of life in vain and say that she's been unwarranted, what's going on with whoever made that judgment? What happens to the one who, based on that court decision, deprived someone of their lives? Do these people become murderers then? Do they plead guilty? Are those crimes out of date? Do they go into history as criminals? I really don't get it, if we cancel court decisions, what happens to those who made those decisions? Do we now deprive them of any rights or how it works? What is further controversial in this way as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the rights of those convicted if a judicial or administrative decision is taken against the rule of law are restored. Most of these verdicts were made right after the war. The bill itself recognizes that there were laws by which these decisions were made. So these laws were not just, but they respected the rule of law, the rule of law was exercised. They judged according to then applicable laws, so that all those judgments that threatened human rights fall under the concept of state law because at that time they were applicable laws. The next part that is controversial, generally accepted standards of human rights and freedom. There was no concept of human rights and freedom at the time when most of the judgments we're talking about were made. Generally accepted human rights and freedoms did not exist as a concept of international law, in the UN, in international organisations, in our right. So I don't know if this applies to the generally accepted standard of human rights and freedoms today or to the generally accepted standards of human rights and freedoms of that time. I'll remind you, at the time, women had no right to vote. At the time, homosexuals were prosecuted. We today's widely accepted standards of human rights and freedom cannot apply to something that happened 70 years ago. That's why I suggested that we rephrase this. If there is a will by the promoter, I would continue to modify this proposal, to sort of agree if there was some formulation that would be more acceptable to the promoter. I'm suggesting that this be rephrased in the following way. Article 1 paragraph 2 is amended and reads - the right to rehabilitation shall be the person referred to in Article 1(3) and (4) of this Article, if a judicial or administrative decision is made against the basic principles of the legal order and of the state order at the time of its adoption and if the presumption of innocence is injured. I think my solution, again, is to use your term more celibately, because really, what Mrs. Tabakovic was talking about, we in this way those things that were truly unfair we were, in fact, simply ignoring that it was in accordance with the law at the time. As a result, it is much more important that these people are subject to procedural rights. It's also another term we've been thinking about, but even procedural rights are not a concept that was known at the time. I think there's room to think about it. It is pointless to apply today's human rights standards to something that happened 70 years ago, especially since the concept of human rights was not known, the rule of law too. What confuses the most is the fact that the government is in a position to explain why an amendment of me and my colleagues, Radovanovic, is not accepted, cited exactly the reasons why I propose that the amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63787	Four minutes and 30 seconds, used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63788	Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment proposing to exempt members of Ljotic and Nedic's formations who died during World War II in combat. I remind you that the Serb people in World War II had two liberating anti-fascist movements. The first was the Chetnik movement under Dragoljub Mihailovic's command, and the second was the Partizan movement under the command of the communist party. There were several other minor movements that had their weapons formations. All these movements, without exception, were in various stages of the war, more or less having some degree of co-operation with the occupier. That applies to partisans and Chetniks. It's just one historical fact. And it's nothing out of the ordinary in wars. It's a war reality. In war, bloodied enemies often cooperate for chance, sometimes for tactical reasons, sometimes they are forced to do so. Simply, you have an example of the last war in BiH, when Croats, Muslims and Serbs fought against each other, but in certain stages of the war, they all collaborated with each other. Croatians and Muslims against Serbs, at the Kupreška visorna, at Vlasic Croats and Serbs against Muslims, etc. It was simply a co-operation in World War II. However, we believe that the degree of co-operation with the occupier held by members of the Nedic movement and members of this Yugoslav Voluntary Corps, Dimitri Ljotic, means that this degree of co-operation is so much that it cannot be justified by any necessity. You cannot treat Marisav Petrovic, who is objectively responsible for the great loss of the Serbian people in Šumadija in the same way, in the same way as the leaders of the Serbian uprising in 1941 in the Lithuanian and Kupreš region, the great folk heroes Ranet Radet, Cvetko Duvnjak or Cela Maric, mentioned with gratitude by the Serbian people in the Bosnian province and the Knin region. We are against this rehabilitation for the reasons we believe, we are convinced that behind the rehabilitation of Nedicevics and Ljotics there is an opening of space, meaning the government's intention to open a space to rehabilitate the folksdojcers and Hortiians members of the German and Hungarian national minorities, who were part of the German Nazi military formations in World War II. We believe that this law poses a great danger to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in the long term. Perhaps not in the short term for the next five or ten years, but for the next 20 or 30 years anyway. I remind you that they would avoid responsibility for the crimes committed, the folks and the Hortiians left the Vojvodina area in 1945, and together with Hitler's military units, retreated to the German premises. The new communist authorities have taken away their assets that remained in the SFRY space. Under this law, most of them will have the right to recover property. I understand all these legal provisions, all the difficult circumstances they're going to have. However, it has been a long time and many witnesses have died, and it is easy to provide many false witnesses. I am convinced that all members of these two movements, the Horticans and the folksdojchers, or members of their families, their successors will apply for rehabilitation and apply for the return of property and provide as many witnesses as they need to prove their alleged innocence. Do you know what the consequences will be, legally speaking? Tens of thousands of Serbs in Vojvodina will be left without their property. This primarily refers to Serbs colonised by the communist government in 1945 from the Bosnian province, from Like and Dalmatia. I ask the question – what will happen to these people? Are you going to give them any damages? You don't have any where, the state doesn't have any money. Would you maybe put them back where they came from? They have nowhere to go back. When they colonized in 1945 in Vojvodina, the state government took away their property there in Lika and Dalmatia, as well as Kordun in Bosnia. Croatia will not allow Serbs who were expelled in 1995 to return to Croatia, let alone allow Serbs who were exiled there in 1945. This law opens up a space for huge spaces in Banat and Backo, hundreds of thousands of hectares, to be returned to the Germans, to be handed over to foreigners. I remind you that we already have one situation as a consequence of this robbery privatisation, where we have tens of thousands of hectares of the most fertile land in Vojvodina controlled by foreigners, Ivica Todorovic, various other foreign tycoons and some domestic tycoons who are the perpetrators and tenants of some companies from the west. We have a completely absurd situation, we are adopting a law that allows it to take away the land of those in Vojvodina who are fighting for Vojvodina to remain in the composition of Serbia, and we are opening up a space for the country to be given to those in the duchy who are in favour of extracting Vojvodina from Serbia's composition. Practically, the state is breaking its own legs. What kind of danger is this? It's best seen in the KiM case. The release of KIM from Serbia began when the Cypriot government, with the mild affection of Tito's regime, expelled more than 300,000 Serbs from KIM. Do we have any guarantee that this will not happen in Vojvodina? Good intentions and good wishes are one thing, but all that's been happening to us in the last 20 years, everything that's been going on in the Duke's area for the last 10 years, all that's going on in the Assembly here on the security of the government's majority, says a Kosovo scenario is going to happen in Vojvodina. We cannot behave on that people's proverb, and I do not know whose is after us a flood. We must think that we must not adopt laws that will lead to the survival of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Vojvodina in 20, 30 years' time. Instead of defending the state, we're disintegrating it. In southern Serbia, for 12 years, Serbs have been kidnapped by the country. Now we're opening up a space for our country to be taken away from us in northern Serbia. I know this law is made under the pressure of Brussels, you know? Only because, in order for those of the EU to say, "Well, we'll see you on this sinking ship on December 09th. The EU is falling apart. The mice are thinking how to jump off this sinking ship, and we are headlessly going to take us aboard that ship, take us into the EU, just to get Tadic and DS elections. The next reason and I think that's the basic reason why we're discussing this law today is Germany's insistence on reviewing World War II and revising Europe's history in the last 50 years. You know? The review began with recognition of Slovenia and Croatia, breaking the SFRY, and continued with the bombing of KIM, Serbia and KIM, and should end with the abduction of Vojvodina. With the help of NATO-packages and the EU, which Germany has skillfully used as its means, Germany punishes all those who opposed Hitler, all those who fought for freedom, and rewards all those who went shoulder to shoulder with Hitler, who committed terrible crimes. You know what could happen in the end? It could happen that in the end, Germany didn't commit any genocide at all, that there were no war crimes. The Germans will be innocents and victims, and the Serbs will be criminals. We have one unfortunate Srebrenica and we all condemn what happened in Srebrenica, to the extent that it was a crime, but no one mentions that in World War II in every Serbian town in Croatia, BiH has one Srebrenica. Why don't we just adopt a declaration about it? Why doesn't someone ask that 300,000 Serbs with KIM will be defiled to return the country to them, to return hundreds of hectares of land to the Serbian Orthodox Church in Metohija? You are asking for the return of land to Serbs who have been expelled from the Federation of BiH, more than 400,000 people. There are 600 villages in which there are no more Serbs, and all of them were Serbian villages. Why don't you ask him to return property to Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia? There's 500,000 of them. To return property to these unfortunate people colonized in Vojvodina. So when all this comes back, let's talk about the Folksdoers. But it still can't be compared. This is where the Serb people, the unfortunates, who were killed, the ones who survived, the third kill, the third cross, the third banishment, on the one hand the victim, on the other hand we have members of the German occupation forces. And the last reason I'm gonna end up with it is why are we discussing this law today? Yes, it is a need for the ruling majority of the DS and president of the Republic to be courted to these small parties, Hungarian parties from Vojvodina, so that they do not deny the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that we do not have early elections. I remind you, regular elections should be held in a few months. Is it possible, due to several months of government, Boris Tadic and DS, that you are jeopardising the survival of the Republic of Serbia on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63789	Used eight minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63790	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendments to the Rules of Procedure are an opportunity and an opportunity for what it proposes, and in this case and by law, it is only an MP, to convince the promoter that what he proposes is more comprehensive, since it is a formulation that the Government loves to use whenever it delivers some reports on whether a certain amendment is not accepted. So, the chance that my smallness can convince whoever wrote this law that what I'm about to say now drinks water, makes sense, and that maybe it's kind of more celibate to fit into the text of the proposed law. With all due respect to Mr Petrovic and Mr Cosic, I can convince them by morning, but it does not seem to be worth it, because they are not the ones who, by law, have the right to accept or not accept. I'm only going to ask them to follow closely what I'm about to say when it comes to the amendment to Article 1st paragraph 4 that I've submitted to the minister, so let's see what happens in the voting day. What's this about? I have submitted an amendment to this article, and that is to say in Article 4, where the law says that the right to rehab does not have persons who, during the course of World War II on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are deprived of life in armed conflicts, as members of the occupation armed forces and quinspeak formations. I suggest that the term "their associates and assistants" be used instead of the term Quinspeak formations. Why would I suggest that? I think it's a more appropriate and accurate term that's adapted to Serbian. Since this is the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, I think it would be good to use our words, not foreign words, simply to make it clearer because if a serious lecturer does, it will not be clear to him. On the other hand, the legislator himself in Article 2 paragraph 4 quoted the name of the state commission which refers to what is said in the proposed text of the law. Namely, it's a commission to determine the crimes of the occupiers and their accomplices during World War II. I think that's another argument, too, why you should accept the term "their associates and assistants". You know, Queensling was, as we all know, a Norwegian politician who's been taking sides with Germany since World War II and has been working with the Nazis since the very beginning. As such, it is a synonym for all those who in all occupied countries during the Second World War in Europe co-operated with the Nazis and were under this or that direct command of the Third Reich, where the term was used - quinslizi. But if we were to treat all the associates and assistants that were in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, for example, some in France as quinslinge, then we would come in contrast with something already applied as experience and practice. Let's just say, in France, Marshall Petten, although he was, being free to interpret historical facts, some kind of a larger German associate by the French, they wouldn't let him be a synonym for the betrayal of the world. The French condemned Mr. Petten, but not to death, for his merits in World War I. So the fact that one great French was not allowed was imposed on Norway as a smaller country. In Yugoslavia, World War II was tried, as was then said, by domestic traitors, associates and helpers of the occupiers. If, for example, the proposer of this law were consistent and right, then in some other sense words might notice that maybe Peten was in some way, not quinsling, but a Nazi associate during World War II in France. I think this is a term that is consistent with Serbian, I stress. I think the government's representatives will accept this for precision and clarity. So, many don't understand what Quinceptic formations mean. We who read the laws, of course, know that, it's our obligation, but the largest number of citizens why this law is passed doesn't understand the concept of quinling, so it's doing clarity and doing it tomorrow when it's read in the Official Messenger, for precision, I think this amendment should be accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63791	It's been used three minutes since the MP's time? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63792	Except for this attitude, which I will now present, I will no longer appear under these amendments, because of the fact that distinguished counterparts Omerovic and SPO are fully concerned with the perspective and future of this country to respect human rights. I think we'll probably find a common language and in that part that needs to be corrected, that this generation of politicians should make a contribution to respecting human rights and correcting injustice to the extent possible, which is done in our recent past. All MPs of all political parties agreed that injustices were numerous. What has particularly affected us in the context of this amendment is that it is said that what was Queensling in Norway, Peten was in France and Nedic, Ljotic and Mihajlovic in Serbia, as well as Pećanac in Serbia. I really don't want us to have an ideological debate here, especially to deal with history, but the fact that this parliament has evened out members of the Yugoslav Army in the country or members of the Ravnogor movement, has admitted to them that they are anti-fascists, is already being taught in the history books of the primary school, as we have never done in the disputed antifascism of members of the Partizan movement. We think it's in the spirit of national reconciliation and we don't need to dig up old wounds and open space for new accidents. We were fully aware of the fact that for the sake of brotherhood and unity in Tito's communist dictatorial Yugoslavia, besides Pavelic in Croatia, the brotherhood and unity asked Pavelic to be Serbian in Serbia, so one great fascist Ante Pavelic is equal with one of the first leaders against the fascist movement in Europe with Dragoljub Draza Mihailovic. The process of rehabilitation, the personal rehabilitation of Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic is under way and will surely be in the spirit of historical facts. Of course, I will only remind myself that, unfortunately, the brother-in-law war, not the struggle against the fascism of the Partizan units, began on July 7th, by the Serb communist shooting at the Serbians, not the fascists of the Germans, not the Italian fascists, not the Fascist Bulgarians, not the fascists Albanians, not the fascists' Hungarians, but the fascists' Hungarians, but the Serb, with the predominantly motivation not to fight Fascism, but to start a brother-kill war and to change the system. That's what the communists did in all the countries of Europe, used the great misfortune that Hitler attacked many countries of the world to take over the power in a murky hunt. But why didn't the communists do it, why didn't they fight Fascism the day Hitler attacked Serbia? Well, simply because Hitler and Stalin had a co-operation agreement at the time, which Serbian communists then said Hitler and Stalin would rule the whole world together, and only when the communist most important country of the Soviet Union was attacked on June 22, 1941, was it then that Serbian communists came forward. But I'm saying, I don't want us to open up old wounds, I don't want to talk about what's common knowledge, I'd just ask that the positive laws of this country be respected, that we don't dig up old wounds and that all of us, that this generation of politicians are not burdened with all those ideological divisions that have been burdened by our grandfathers or our fathers, and that we really, from this time distance, give one real look at the difficult human rights violations, and it's certain that Dragoljub is Draža Mihajlovic, one of those Serbs who are the most severely affected by his human rights. Aleksandar Misic and Captain Ivan Hredl, Aleksandar Misic is the son of Duke Misic, in 1941, when they were arrested by Germans on Suvobor, on Ravno Gora, because they defended Draža Mihajlovic's resignation, "lived Serbia" in front of the German shooting machine. That's why I'd really like all of us, what I said to be the dominant idea of a guide in discussing these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63793	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Meso Omerovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63794	Dear Mr. Chikiriz, I really don't know what you'd like, it's your private right to love or not love, to want or not to want, simply, we're talking about historical facts here. I don't want to in any way, and here I agree with you, to dig up some old wounds, as you say, I just want to remind you of the outcome of World War II, the historical facts, and they say that in World War II, the coalition made up by the great Red Army of the Soviet Council, the United States, Great Britain and England, part of France and representatives of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia, headed by Marshal Tito, when it comes to former Yugoslavia. So these are historical facts. Now, what you'd like if it weren't so, I can't help you there. But what I can help you with, I offer you the withdrawal of all my amendments, if you are now in direct TV transmission to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia clearly state in which battles did the Chetniks of Draja Mihajlovic participate against the Germans and how many Germans have killed? That's what I'm asking of you, and then we'll settle this historic misunderstanding, as you call it. But in order to be serious and clear and to stick to what I said at the beginning of the replica, so historical facts, once again the representatives of the Chetnic movement led by Dragoljub Draž Mihajlovic, were given the opportunity on September 12th, when the one to whom they swore allegiance, I mean King Peter, gave the order "to place all the Chetnic units under the command of the Marshal Tito and join the People's Liberation Movement, all those who did so will be amnesty, and those who did not do so will be responsible for the work done, the crown will not be justified". It's a quote from King Peter's command. Otherwise, when we talk about amnesty and rehabilitation, all these representatives of all these formations had a chance on August 3, 1945, so when the war ended with the Order of General Amnesty: "All Chetniks, Nedics, Domobrans, Muslim militias, white guard, ballistics, members of the Quinslin Civilian apparatus, whether in the country or abroad for participation in the Quinsces military formations for co-operation with the fascist occupationist and for participation in the fight against the People's Liberation Movement, except for those who committed war crimes, in the final year 1946, amnesties from the People's Liberation Army were the only ones who have never been amnested to the Usta and Jotić's fascist movement". So, they all had a chance, a chance and a chance to put themselves on the right side even at the end of World War II, and they didn't want it, and at the end of the war they chose Hitler as commander-in-chief and they remained consistent with him. Then let me leave them where they've been with Hitler since the beginning, in history, who was defeated in World War II. So in the politics of Nazism and fascism, those who were associates remain associates. You're free of all love for them, and you're free of all pledges to put them in the order of the victors. Those who have lost can never be winners, defeated can never be winners in World War II, simply World War II is over. The historical results are well known to all of you, and here I am to remind you of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63795	Three minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63796	I promise the public that I won't answer again, because we don't need a debate to be directed in this direction, but we can't even let such big lies be told in the National Assembly. Namely, who will decide in the war in Serbia in 1945, which the system will remain, not even members of the Ravnog or Partizan movement decided on the arrangements in Tehran and Yalta, when the major forces split around the world's interest zones. Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia belonged to the Soviet interest zone, feared Josip Broz Tito during the operation in Neretva, sent a delegation to Milovan Djilas, Vladimir Velebit, and it seems to me that Koca Popovic in the Zagreb District Court building to conduct talks with the Germans in Zagreb, as the allied landing was prepared, one version was that the allies would land on the Adriatic, afraid that Yugoslavia would remain in the Western allies' interest sphere, Tito was ready to defend the landing of allies with the Germans because he was afraid that the fate of the Greek partisans would hit him, because as well as the famous Greeks after the Second World War had entered into the interest sphere of the West and did not free Serbia from fascists, both the Chetsts and the town of Kruševac and one of the cities that had freed the Serbs from the Serbians, but had already committed to the Serbs in the war. A similar fate came from Tadeausa Bor Komarovski in Poland, three months ago I was at the Memorial center called "Tadeus Bor Komarovski" and I believe that a day will come, regardless of the ideological obstacles that exist in the heads of many people, when Serbia will also get a memorial complex called, probably – Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic and when Serbia will fully recognise the members of the Ravnogor movement that they were antifasists.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63797	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63798	Ladies and gentlemen, let me, as a historian, engage in this controversy. First of all, the English, Churchill, directly produced the Satanisation of Draža Mihajlovic and the Yugoslav army in the country since 1943. It is known that the anti-fascist liberal movement of Draža Mihajlovic, along with the Americans, was strongly supported by the beginning of the war. Even since 1943, the English have started to satanicize the Chetniks and eventually supported the mounted process against Draža Mihajlovic and his closest associates. Unfortunately, they are not rehabilitated until today. Many of the ideologists and fighters of the Ravnogorje Movement were participants in World War I and, as such, made a major contribution to the victory of the Allies, headed by the English and French. Participants were Costa Pecanac, Draža Mihajlovic and others. If the Garden idea had won in 1945, today it would have been celebrated on March 27, 1941 as a great anti-fascist holiday. So much for the nazifascism of the eunuchs, according to counterpart Omerovic. And the leaders of the equinox ideologists were otherwise the key actors of the 27th March antifascist demonstrations, e.g. brothers Knezevic, lawyer Slobodan Jovanovic, Dragisa Vasic, Niko Bartulović, with falcons, etc. Otherwise, in the historical science, it is known that the English projected March 27th and carried him out through the Serbs, and the Serbs dragged him into the terrible bloodshed of World War II. However, the English quickly forgot Serbian war services and victims of the people and rejected Serbs, but Yugoslavs in Chetnik ranks. The government and the Assembly, due to innocently convicted victims, due to their suffering and the suffering of their families, should pass a fair, legally-founded law on the rehabilitation of all innocent citizens of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Republican Socialist Yugoslavia. Since historical justice reveals that many of the accused, satanized, and then killed, innocently accused, the trail of logic should also be posthumously condemned to judges who enjoyed until their death all the benefits of the dictatorial victory regime of Joseph Broz. Therefore, it should be initiated, according to me, a lawsuit against a complete judicial team that tried against Draža Mihajlovic and his closest associates, headed by Colonel Milos Minić, Captain Milos Jovanovic, Colonel Mihajl Djordjevic, the president of the Supreme Court and others. Of course, a posthumously condemns the creator of all charges and persecution against Serbs and the former greatest son of all our peoples, Joseph Broz Tito. Posthumously new processes need to be launched for co-operation, the co-operation of Broz and his communists with the Germans, and even with Ustashas. When the fictional propaganda on Draža's co-operation, which our colleague Omerovic brings to us, is already created, we need to fully reconstruct the communist co-operation with the occupiers. The co-operation is witnessed by archive documents, emigration and domestic literature, and I will give some examples. In a Serbian cultural club headed by Yugoslav Prime Minister Slobodan Jovanovic and Egorac, writer Dragisa Vasic, during the war were convinced that an agreement concluded between the Chetniks and communists at the Srem-Mitrovar Penitentiary, a signator of Moša Pijada on behalf of communists and Stipe Javor on behalf of the Ustasha, was not broken. The aim of the agreement was to bring Yugoslavia down. Its army primarily as well as the breaking of the national Serb forces. Dragisa Vasic, an ideologist of the Ravnogorski Movement, a writer, does not state the year of the agreement with Ustashas, but according to documents from the Yugoslav Archives, which I own, is mentioned in 1937 and Stipe Javor, as a signator, which is confirmed by immigrant historian Karapancic from Cleveland. The lawyer is Dr. Milan Petrovic, mentioned in 1935 and Moša Pijada and Mila Budak, while Veselin Đuretic mentions Mladen Lorkovic as co-signator. So, the long-hidden event, which is the most important slowly, is the fact that the fact that it's factographically justifies and emerges in the light of day. The Serbian cultural club also knew about the joint because of Ustasha and communists held in Plaška in early 1943. For them, there was no secret agreement between Ustasha majors and communist brigades. Just because of the truth about the communist, anti-Serbian action during the war, the leaders of the Serbian Cultural Club, Slobodan Jovanovic and Dragisa Vasic, who was otherwise killed by communists in 1945, were charged. The Serbian cultural club has accused the national unconscious and naive simple Serbian partisans. I'm in the family, so I don't think I'm from some extreme Chetnik family, otherwise my brother and uncle's sister were killed in partisans, my own uncle was also killed on the Sremski front, so I have no reason to say, for some ideological reason, some fictitious stuff, it's just a historical photo that the documents confirmed. Never before 1941 did it happen that someone had exposed their people to suffering as the Bolsheviks did with the Serb people in the western areas. The Serbs simply served as cannon meat in the Partizan rows to create a devastating per Serbian people of the Federative Yugoslavia, the independent Republic of Croatia to Yugoslavia or better said in large Croatia's Yugoslavia. Josip Broz and the communists have been working planically for the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the national most conscious, to be broken, possibly completely destroyed. To return to the Serbian Cultural Club, already in 1943, they predicted that Croatian and Serbian communists would forge the national struggle of Serb and Yugoslav Chetniks, through Serbian partisans, since the Croatians by the fall of 1943 were only 1% in the Partizan ranks, to achieve the victory of Tito Broza and Vlaška Street in Zagreb, according to Vasic. For this shameful bluff, according to the writer Vasic, half of Belgrade was to be destroyed, to burn Macva, to kill all the Kraljevci and Kragujevac youth and hundreds of Serbs in NDH. All of these victims that stand out at the Serbian Cultural Club should eventually be crowned by the throckist constitutional assembly, the installation of Broza and Moša Pijada. A definitive and complete edition takes place in 1943, leading to the government of Slobodan Jovanovic in July 1943 by Serbian Yugoslav Chetniks in Yugoslavia, due to the growing favouring of the communist and Broz movement by the English and Churchill. England's propaganda via Josip Broz next creates from Balkan anti-fascist Robin Hood, as they popularly called Draž Mihajlovic and Chetnic anti-fascists, the occupiers, as counterpart Omerovic points out here, so ideologists and Serbian ministers from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia will be tried as war criminals along with Draža Mihajlovic in the 1946 trial. The head of the Serbian Cultural Club, Dragisa Vasic, who was otherwise a mass Yugoslav nationalist and liberal, called England's request and policy in 1943 the cynical and unsuitable demands of our heartless ally who were simply an ordinary blackmail by him. The English illegal demands and blackmails that Serbs in the Yugoslav government had to accept, according to Dragisa Vasic, were more humiliating than meeting the conditions of the Austrian ultimatum in 1914 and even more than Germany itself asked of Yugoslavia in March 1941. Slobodan Jovanovic fell from power in 1943 because he remained consistent with the legitimate army of Draža Mihajlovic, i.e. along with the Yugoslav army of the country. Therefore, the English requirements were not legitimate, they were anti-constitutional. In fact, the English charged the movement of Draža Mihajlovic with the expression of reactionary electricity in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and the very movement of Draža Mihajlovic by a cynical claim was reduced to a combat force operating in a very limited territory of Yugoslavia. Broz and the communists created a fame about the fascist and non-democratic dictatorial regime against his tendencies. The king of the child on the throne, as they called him, otherwise Petar II Karadjordjevic, was otherwise very angry with Slobodan Jovanovic because he opposed his marriage and it contributed to the king's turn against him even more, in addition to these key reasons – which was supported by the Chetnik movement of Draža Mihajlovic. I think this is enough arguments to find out the real truth. Finally, I would like to note that because of this very terrorist and one-minded character of the 1946 court, all Yugoslav ministers, who has already been rehabilitated, Momcilo Ninčić is rehabilitated, but are not rehabilitated statesmen and ministers: Petar Živković, Dr Lazar Marković, Dr Milan Gavrilović, Dr Bozidar Purić, Prime Minister in Exil, then ideologists, intellectuals and writers such as: Dragisa Vasić, he is rehabilitated, then Dr Zivko Topalović, who is not rehabilitated, brothers Knezevic, Živan and Radoje, Dalmatian writers Vilović and Bartulović, Bosnians Dr Stevan Voljević, a lawyer, Mulalic and others. Of the 24 convicted in the process, only two were rehabilitated – Slobodan Jovanovic and Momcilo Ninčić. Finally, to point out that all Serbs were wrongly convicted under the same law and should accordingly rehabilitate all innocent indictees, regardless of what part of the former Yugoslavia they lived in. They were all citizens of one state and had a unique Yugoslav citizenship, since until the 1974 Constitution, republican citizenship did not exist. It is outrageous that property was seized in an unconstitutional manner, past the rules of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which were valid until early 1946, and based on the decisions of AVNOJ, revolutionary laws of 1945. Since we know that the Constitution of the new government was passed in early 1946, all of these previous laws were, therefore, unconstitutional. For example, the Law on the Confiscation of Assets, 1945, a decision on the establishment of a court for the trial of crimes and crimes against Serbian national honor. A colleague of Omerovic's, so much for the fascism of Draža Mihajlovic's movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63799	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Dusan Maric has a word. After him, MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63800	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only take one minute to engage in this controversy whether the Chetniks fought the occupiers, whether they freed some city and killed some Kraut soldiers. I will state one historical fact – the first freed city in occupied Serbia, the first freed city in occupied Europe was Loznica. The password was released on 31 August 1941. The password was released by the Chetnik troops under Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misite's command. Colonel Misita and his soldiers surrounded the German garrison, set up an ultimatum to surrender when they refused to act on the ultimatum, followed by a charge. The garrison fell into Chetnik hands. 17 Kraut soldiers were killed and about 90 were captured. So it's the truth that's been hiding for a long time and still trying to hide today. The truth of the 1990s was first discovered by Dr Vojislav Seselj and historian Miroslav Samardzic, and some other examples will be given to you by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63801	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63802	Thank you. I'm going to be very brief, and I wouldn't hold on to it anymore. The historical fact is that Dragoljub Mihajlovic's trial was held in Belgrade, at the Faculty of Law amphitheatre and that it was publicly, directly transferred to Radio-Belgrade, that they were representatives of all then Allied embassies, from the Soviet Union, the United States and England, which were accredited in Belgrade, that Mihajlovic was indicted by 47 counts. The court found him guilty of eight, including a crime against humanity and high treason. The appeal against the verdict he made through his lawyer was rejected and we know that on July 17, 1946, a statement was issued that a death sentence had been executed on him. So what you're saying about Dragisa Vasic and Stevan Moljevic, I understand. Why, dear colleague Yellow? Because these are the ideologists of the Ravnogorski Movement, and you have made that very clear for a little while. So it's a historical fact that I don't argue with. It is clear, precise, well-founded and as such stands as a document. However, if we were to rehabilitate the ideologist of the Ravnogorski Movement, then we would rehabilitate the Ravnog Movement, which, in its programme, by the same ideologist, has the creation of a large Serbia. That's what you confirm. Therefore, is the state of Serbia ready to rehabilitate the politics of great Serbia, the ideology that went after the creation of what you stand for and what your right is? I don't get into that, and that's what voters and citizens who vote and don't vote on. I don't see anything controversial here, but I'm asking you to be clear and precise, not to fall into the trap that because of the anti-communism that you're pointing out, we're now falling into another problem, so that we can come to rehabilitate one movement that he had for the project of creating something that, after all, led to major crimes in the space of the former Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63803	It was used two minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63804	Mrs. Comic, I think I'll get some information and what Professor Comic was saying. Žutic and his colleague Maric, but with an additional argument to complete this pointless controversy with someone who has been ideologically blinded and who has studied this school under Broz's communist regime, and we as responsible people and as someone who follows the ideology of Serbian nationalism, which is the creation of a single Serbian state of great Serbia, we have arguments and historical facts that contribute to the Ravnogorje movement of General Draž Mihajlovic. A good fellow Maric told you, the less public in Serbia knows, we have advocated that August 31st will be a day of uprising in Serbia because then famous, his name should in gold letters be entered in the history of Serbia, brave Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misita with a Chetnik squad freed Loznica and came to Podrinje, as he was with his Chetnic units in Doboj where he fought against the occupiers. It will remain recorded, no matter how much anyone wants to deny it, that he was the first officer to stand up in such a way to the occupier who called on the Germans to surrender, when they did not want to do so, he freed Loznica and it was the first free city in Serbian countries. 17 Germans died and 96 were wounded. In addition, General DražaMihajlovic is about his fight against fascism and decorated, which also one colleague here does not know, by then the Allied forces, or America, who today are doing evil over all humanity and act the same as the Nazis and the Hitlers in World War II, but he was then decorated on their part, and the Chetniks of the Ravnog Movement freed Visegrad, killed more than 200 Germans. Next to Loznica, they released the Kruševac. They mined the Nis track – Zaječar. I could tell you about it as well as all my fellow Serbian radicals have fought as brave and true soldiers and heroes against the German occupier, or fascists, as well as the Ustasha in Krajina, or Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63805	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63806	This is, therefore, an amendment to the title above Articles 2 and 2. Rehabilitation bill. You know, there's one rule, one unwritten rule that can be expressed in words, if you did well, you could hope for good. Unfortunately, there are many exceptions to this rule. Let me remind you, one of the living exceptions is Jovo Kapičić, who, at the time, boasted that many Serbs had driven the unsuspecting into the grave and that he was sorry that he had not done so yet. And, well, he's had a deep age. Seven decades of basic Serbian words became camps, death, occupation, dungeons, gas chambers, exiles, and then trials and trials of non-insects, political insinuators, trial of books, trial of opinion, trial of words, burning of Serbian temples, etc. Seven decades, that hell is still going on. To remind you that about 350,000 Serbian sons were in German prison camps, and about 200,000 never returned to their homeland, it remained there, hiding and fleeing from Broz's regime. From these captured camps often only black news came -- dead, burned, etc., etc. One of the first victims after that was legendary Major Dragutin Gavrilovic. It is he who, if you remember, gave the Belgrade defenders that famous speech, where he says – exactly at three o'clock the enemy must break down with your strong fighters, blow up your bombs and bayonets, the face of Belgrade our capital must remain bright. And he was a victim. The aim of the amendment is to protect those tens of thousands of Serbian families whose only sin was to assist the Ravnog Movement of General Draža Mihajlovic. According to German sources in 1943, about 80% of Serbian families were included in the Ravnog Movement and the Draža Mihajlovic Movement, in various ways. I will say that the Serbian village and the Serbian peasant were the most assisted by the Ravnogorski Movement. That's why the Serbian peasant from the communist regime was also given the authority - the state enemy, the Chetnik pillow, to participate in the Quislin formations, just as it says in Article 2. Rehabilitation bill. Joseph Broz also knew what the Serbian peasant was for Serbia. He knew Joseph Broz and that story, when German Feld Marshall Macenzen, conquering Belgrade, went south and came across a Serbian village near Morava, stopped and asked his officers – do you know who truly is sovereign of this country? They answered him – how could we not know, it is the king of Serbia. That's what he answered -- look at these houses that are turned white, and they have a Serb peasant living in them. The Serb peasant is the true sovereign and true sovereign of this country. The Serbian peasant, he told them, because he is sovereign of this state, is so freneticly fighting for his homeland and is ready for her to die. That's why the Serbian peasant suffered the most in Broz's regime. That's why Broz's regime characterizes a Serb peasant, mostly, as a member of the Quislin formations. Can anyone ask to forget everything they have suffered, what the Serbian people have suffered in such a regime? Can anyone ask to forget the underage children of Peter Vujovic, the king's officer, and later the Yugoslav Army officer in the country of Trnava near Cačka? So children of 12, 14 and 17 and their mother of 45, Broz's executioners killed 15 months after World War II ended. Can anyone ask to be forgotten and how the Flowers of the village of Visibabe at Požega lost their son the Blasphemy, whose only sin was found in his bag, as they described, dangerous material, the Holy Scriptures? Will the failure to adopt this amendment will rehabilitation be possible, but rehabilitation in terms of, in the end, and to find, where her father died, also succeeds Tatjana Vasic? To remind you, this is the daughter of Dragisa Vassic, a member of the Royal Academy of Sciences, whom they called Chica number two out of charity. The only thing she knew was that the communists, without trial and without investigation, killed him somewhere around Banja Luka. Should Shumadi forget about 20,000 young Chetniks who were killed by communists, throwing them into the pit, in a flood in Milevina near Kalenovic? Indeed, it is neither forgotten nor forgotten, not dozens and dozens of other examples, nor forgiven. All those who are called Article 2, are called the Quislins. That's why I asked you to delete this amendment. Many of them shed their blood and gave everything they had for their homeland. I will remind you that such a time was also Major Tankosic, whom the mother, premonitioning that only the mother could do it, that the nearer end of him was begging to marry, to leave behind living descendants. He told her – Mother, I've been married a long time. My only love is Serbia. The major was also taught by all who later called the Broz regime the Quislins. That is why this amendment should be adopted. In the end, I'll remind you, schedule a session on KIM. The board couldn't keep up. Don't close your eyes in front of the truth, we're being brutally kidnapped by 15% of the state's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63807	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63808	I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, that Mrs. Malovic is coming out right now, because I have one specific question. Mr. Cosic cannot answer me, and it concerns the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes, because, in addition to what Mr. Munjic said and how he demanded on behalf of the SRS, that a pointless member should be deleted, the title above that member. I'm going to illustrate this to you in one example, how in the case of the actual crimes that took place, and in the specific fact that I'm going to present, today the state of Serbia is advertising. Then how are you going to implement this law that is legally pointless? We have shown this, and you will see in Article 5, and here in Article 2 and Article 1, where you have not accepted Mrs. Radet's amendment, to implement when you are silent in front of some terrible facts. Since 2000, when you came to power, to court the Americans, NATO duck, the evil Hague tribunal, you have handed over the entire military and political leadership of Serbia, to invent some mass graves, it was done by Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, you were involved in the production of Serbian crimes, as a government in Serbia, you DOS men who came to power on October 5th, and in front of the specific things that happened in 2006, when in charge of King Petar the first Karadjordjevic on Oplenc, the tomb, in which there were 28 skeletons, was delivered to you by the authority of all of this, you are silent and that prosecutor and that special court and all of you who work for The Hague case and to harm the Serbs, and the fact that the Germans, the occupation forces, in 1942 and among them, were among the 28 people killed by the victims of Migorjean. What did these Broz communists and the Kumrovite students, who sit here today in the congregation benches, learn? That the soldiers and the Ravnog movement of General Mihailovic were on the side of the occupiers. This tells you, these people who were, and we gave you many examples of heroic struggles in the defence of Serbian national interests in all Serbian countries, at the border of Serbia, and here in Topolo and its surroundings, people were killed by Germans only because they were members of the Eknogor movement in 1942. Then what are you silent about? Says this special prosecutor - we don't have enough elements and we don't have any quality DNA to determine. Well, the families of those victims are asking for it to be determined. That's how in one particular case, you can't do it despite the five orders that came in from Topola, in charge. Then everyone needs to know that this law is just a simple farce and that it may not be implemented at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63809	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63810	We've proposed to be a member of 2. The proposal changes completely and says that the right to rehabilitation can also be achieved by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are convicted of belonging to the occupation forces. They would accept the technical change as recommended by counterpart Mehe Omerovic, who is quite in place, that these formations are called – associates and assistants during World War II, if they were forced to mobilize, provided that, as members of the occupation forces, co-workers and assistants did not commit war and other crimes. The person referred to in Article 1 who is rehabilitated for belonging to the occupation forces and associates and assistants may obtain the right to recover seized property in accordance with the law governing the return of confiscated property and compensation and cannot obtain other rights under this law. One who does not know what Article 2 is, first of all, I must say that it is intrinsically in a negative sense, like, quoting the law – I cannot rehabilitate myself and have no right to return the seized property, etc., where we ourselves, technically, or linguistically, normatively technical meaning, have tried so much to understand. He is, as it is said, not vague and confusing, but truly impossible to interpret and apply. As I say, it's not right to use a negative formulation, which is done by a good part of the law, in a number of terms, to state as a condition that the persons have not committed or participated in the execution of war crimes, although I think you know it much better than I do, but I know it well enough, criminal law does not make a difference between the perpetrators and the participants in the crime. In this respect, it is not possible to establish a link between this provision and other provisions of the law regarding the person to whom rehabilitation is concerned, or whether domestic citizens or any of the other members of the armed occupation forces. A consistent interpretation of the contents of this article leads to a conclusion that has been repeated many times in this room, from almost all parliamentary groups, to enable them to rehabilitate all members of the occupation forces and those formations that we call Quinsling, means co-workers and assistants, regardless of nationality, regardless of how they approach, which could thus acquire all the rights under this law, including the pension internship, the compensation of immaterial damages, the monthly compensation and all other rights. When we talk about the members of the occupation forces, there is no indication of the faces, or whose citizens. So by consistent interpretation of these provisions, it can be concluded that all members of the foreign armed forces who are citizens of these aggressor states, who have been captured, or deprived of liberty, have suffered some other damage. The limitation provided for in Article 1 which you have and how you have formulated it is absolutely not possible to apply it directly, because it refers to persons who have suffered damage for other reasons, or in this article nothing is mentioned in this question. However, although it is not written, we know that your intention is to settle the issue of a possible rehabilitation of the work of Serbian citizens, who during the war were forced to mobilize as members of the occupation forces and those co-operational and auxiliary formations, but you did it in a completely wrong and impossible way. It is not possible to prescribe the right to rehabilitate, i.e. the release of the responsibilities of those persons, because the applicable Criminal Code in Article 422 provides that the service of citizens in the enemy army and other armed forms is a criminal offence punishable by 15 years in prison. Joining the enemy armed forces has been a classic crime, since ancient times known and always severely punished. On the other hand, forcing citizens to serve in the enemy armed forces is a war crime against the civilian population, according to Article 372(1). Criminal code, and as such is sanctioned in international law. When you take into account all this we have said, once again I will know which time to conclude, and we will repeat as long as this law is being discussed, the Republic of Serbia has no obligation to make compensation for the damages suffered by the members of the occupation forces because they have been deprived of freedom and some other actions and acts, it is already the damage to the obligations of the states which these persons have forced to serve in the armed forces. The proposal states that the law does not have persons who have committed war crimes. However, I will repeat that it is a really narrow definition. War crimes are just some of the crimes the occupation forces have committed and should be borne in mind that these forces have committed other crimes that are not included in this formulation and in this legal definition, but fall under crimes against humanity and international law. The case works, genocide, and most often in war, it doesn't appear to be war crimes. It is known that there have also been genocide in Serbia's territory, as well as other crimes in the area of crime against humanity and international law, such as the brutal treatment of wounded and prisoners of war, the destruction of cultural goods, the illegal killing, the wounding of enemies and other crimes. That is why it is necessary to prescribe by law clearly, unequivocally, without the need for additional interpretations, that the right to rehabilitation applies only to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been forced to mobilize, provided that they have not committed war crimes and only to the work of the service in the enemy army and to help the enemy. Isn't that clear enough, fair and fair enough? Also, on the basis of rehabilitation, the right can only be exercised to take away property for the sake of justice. It is totally unacceptable that the Republic of Serbia pays compensation to the members of the occupation forces and recognises other rights under this law. Those rights and those damages should be sought from countries that forced them to mobilize, and contrary to international law, and we are witnessing that among those countries there are those who are trying to completely unjustly and beyond international conventions, the law transfers that burden to Serbia, which was actually the victim of aggression at the time. This specifically refers to the deprivement of freedom due to capture, because capture and capture of prisoners of war, you know that it is a completely legitimate act within the rules and customs of war. The engaged parties are neither obliged nor able to determine whether someone is forced to mobilize or volunteer, nor whose citizen he is. Such a provision of the proposal, unfortunately, will clearly aim to hold Serbia in some way to the bad guy who should still have a criminal state's eagle, to degrade its fight against the occupation and contribute to the fight against fascism. It may be collateral, unwanted, due to such a legal solution, but it's too obvious to overlook what comes out of these solutions. So it is unacceptable that, in order to correct the injustice and correct legal solutions of the Law on the return of seized property, peace in the government and the government's house, you solve the burden of history, the cheek of the Serbian people and the "falsification", but the facts will show that this will forge history, and that in that most bright part of the fight against the occupation by the Serbian people. Please, Article 2 is a member of which the largest number of us, who has seriously considered this law, has submitted amendments. While the debate continues, we are all ready to allow corrections, not only termological but essential, which also correspond to the Serbian language, but also those that accurately formulate who should not be damaged and that this injustice goes on indefinitely. Please find a compromise between the amendments submitted, but do not remain stubborn in your position that Article 2 should read as it says, because it will produce many obligations for the Republic of Serbia, it will leave indelible ugly traces in the history of all of us. They repeat the question, whose sins should our children suffer today and for what reason, if we adopt such an unfair, vague and bad solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63811	Mrs Tabakovic, you have wasted your time as an authorised representative and six minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The damage to the Rules of Procedure is being advertised by Mrs Jovanovic Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63812	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Members 107 and 27 were injured. Rules of Procedure. I report at a very difficult moment for the citizens of Serbia, our countrymen in KIM, because we hold this session and discuss amendments to the Rehabilitation Act, the events that occurred in the period since 1941 and beyond, when all the media and the public received a statement from Boris Tadic, who issued the Serbs at KIM, who sold vital state and national interests... It has to do with the Rules of Procedure. Please don't get me out of the O.R., I have my time, Mr. Novakovic, to protect me from those who participate, along with Tadic, in the betrayal of the state and the people and Serbs at KIM. (President: Please, no direct address. Please indicate the injury I've done, so far we haven't heard anything. ) You have hurt Mr. Novakovic, by being, just as I am, as vice president, informed of this shameful statement by Boris Tadic, which the media have announced and that, at the very least, you should ask, as chairman now, to be held urgently and to ensure that the representatives of the government who did not attend the meeting of the KIM Committee today on two occasions, and therefore also the session of the Assembly. In his press statement, Tadic said, "I call on KFOR officials, Eulexa and Serbian political representatives to calm the situation at present and ensure full freedom of movement"... (President: Mr Tadic cannot make a breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor can it affect the work of the National Assembly. ) If you are not ashamed, Mr. Novakovic, to participate together with Tadic in the issue of vital state and national interests, then let it be your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63813	So there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, nor have I done it, nor do I intend to do it. But you have violated the Rules of Procedure and abused your right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure by pointing to something that does not exist. I was not involved in this, and don't do it anymore, because that same member in attitude 7 obliges me to act in such cases, as you as vice president of the Assembly know very well. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Mr. Meho Omerovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63814	Mr. Chairman, you've just quoted attitude 7. The Rules of Procedure, which you have violated yourself. Two, three times, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, legitimately elected democratic president of this country, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Boris Tadic, accused her of betraying the country, and you did not warn her. And later on, by flaunting with you, she said again that you were part of the betrayal, and you did not warn her again. Please make that position of the 7th Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, which you quote, apply. It is unacceptable for the president of the Serbian state to be accused of treason in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63815	Mr. Omerovic, I did not harm the Rules of Procedure, and the question of voicing the measures set out in article 7 of Article 103 is the question of the chairman's assessment. I warned the MP to apply the dictionary, so there are no injuries. In the electronic system is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63816	Mr. Novakovic, you have again violated the dignity of the Assembly, now for the second time, Article 27, because you do not need it, except for the deputy secretary...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63817	I can't let you advertise the same violation of the Rules of Procedure twice. You know that very well. It's the same situation. So we're going back to work. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. You have the word, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63818	I would like to thank Mr Vice President very briefly, given that this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 2(1), is identical because this is a follow-up to what I have proposed for Article 1(4). It's a good thing the Minister's here. I think it is clear through the presentation of the distinguished colleagues Tabakovic and some other colleagues that it would also be good for some other laws and the Criminal Code to follow what is appropriate in the Serbian language, and what is appropriate to legislative practice, so I appeal again in this amendment to be used instead of "members of the Quislin formations" to replace the words and use the term "and their associates and assistants" because this is a more accurate term that refers to those subject to this law. I'm not sure, but it seems to me, it's a minister and colleagues who are lawyers who know a lot better than I do, in international law, I don't think there's a general term of Quislin formations that would refer to occupiers around the world. You'll agree, that's what some other colleagues said, not all the Quislins were the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63819	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, this is a member who has really caused the most amendments, and the whole law is passed in the shadow of ideological pre-election battles and one huge desire to shed some new light on a historic twilight and it would not be good for this law to be passed at the end of this government's mandate and this assembly to dispel that never extinguished battle between partisansans and Chetniks and to make any new divisions within the Serbian National Corps. We didn't want to contribute to that with our amendments. We have submitted the amendment by deeming it excessive and considering that the justification for his refusal actually contributed to our staying more confident that the amendment was in order, in particular this to be in Article 2 where we were changing Section 2 point 1 and asking for Section 4 to be deleted. I'll read our explanation. We believe that from the day of the release of a specific place, which is defined as a period beginning with the effective exercise of power by members of a people's liberation movement in a specific populated place, which was later not interrupted, is absolutely too high and unsustainable, and that it leaves room to disabling in concrete cases the intention of the legislator to rehabilitate persons who truly deserve it. For example, if such a provision would remain in force, it would be impossible to rehabilitate persons who, as an absolutely innocent, suffered by the revolutionary authorities during the period of so-called. The Spanish republics, or many more times during World War II in the area of the former Yugoslavia. So we think that there are concrete historical reasons why such an amendment should be accepted and in order to really allow the law, which we have many objections to, but given the historical injustices that have been done, and in general realizes that the history of the human race is made up of one market, so to reduce how much damage is possible, the loss of those who are in fact irreparable because we know that they are deprived, not only of freedom, not only of property, not only of civil rights, but of life and these are irreparable damages. So this is the amendment to try to fix something in that historical sense, in order to eliminate this historical injustice, and to realize that the dog's cemetery and everything else that's left at the scene of history can't even be fixed by this law. We can only exhibit the good will of a new time. It is not good when such a law is passed that we are now trying to destroy and undo those decisions, as perhaps someday someone will undo our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63821	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Rogovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63822	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Here I will try after a little more than a few hours of history to get back to the reality of the Rehabilitation Law bill. At some point, I'm going to have to do a dyspression. I hope the minister doesn't get angry. At one point, it seemed to me that you too had been caught by this sporting ministerial epidemic, so knowing everything you've done in this assembly, you were really present for the laws that came from your ministry and your presence, I was wrong about all this. What I'm saying is that it's unserious to deal with these difficult moments, in the very responsible resources of our ministries, to deal with certain areas of sport as well. But that's good for another topic. The SNS proposal, the parliamentary groups, is that Article 3. The proposal shall be amended in point 1 to insert a new position 2 and to be implemented in that context. In view of the fact that you did not accept this, that is, if accepted in Article 3.In Article 3(1), what is important. It is essential that such a broad concept of the determination of futility, or the incomplete importance of acts and actions, the persons of which are deprived of life, freedom, and so on. frames within the meaning of this law, i.e. to stress that rehabilitation is within the context of this law, or within the meaning of this law, because you know, Madam Minister, under the applicable criminal code of amendments which were that this term and the concept of rehabilitation and what is provided for by this law is not the same and is not exactly the same as provided for by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. You had no reason to say that the parts of this amendment on the proposed article are not accepted, although we are opinions and I will try to explain to you that what we have tried to do with the new attitude 2 to add, which is that I cannot rehabilitate those who have been punished for political, religious or ideological action which, according to the regulations, represents a punitive act or political co-operation with the enemy during the war, fits into the context of the bill and I do not see why you did not allow it to be accepted, i.e. that a new position stands in the text. To point out that it cannot be such a broad term, rehabilitation in terms of political, religious or ideological action is as set out in Article 3. The bill, because today we have situations both in our country and in the area of some developed democracies of Europe when the prime minister says I am ashamed of this country, that I am not speaking to a country where such situations occur and that certain actions are related to the ideological, religious or political functioning of the penal law of those countries, international law and law relating to the criminal code, namely our laws and regulations of the Republic of Serbia. According to the proposal of the Rehabilitation Act, it is literally that those persons in our country may seek rehabilitation, or be rehabilitated. I would like to point out once again that this is also Article 423 of Article 2 of the current Criminal Code, and that cooperation with the enemy is a criminal offence, and as such a crime and a classical act, it has been known for centuries, so it is neither a newspaper nor an international legal practice, nor in our legal practice. The point of point 3 is that the monthly fee, i.e. a special supplement from the text, is deleted if we have a situation like in the principle debate Mr Momirović and I and some of the other MPs discussed this situation, that in Serbia at least one ten percent of the citizens are on the verge of extreme life, daily existence and poverty, and according to the bill in Article 22, compensation is granted to persons who are granted a special internship of eight years. How if it is four years then it doubles and we have that the height and compensation is 50% of the average salary in the previous year, and economists can easily come up with the fact that that 50% of the compensation amounts to about one good average pension in Serbia. If you have a situation where the average pension in Serbia makes 40 years, then we have a share of the population that in Serbia is largely, unfortunately, since 30 years of age, a full 30-year job job has run out of work and has to wait another 10 years, the question is whether or not it will survive, to get that age limit in order to meet the pension conditions. I really think that with the situation of the economic crisis and the difficult stability and budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the overall situation in the economy cannot stand these parameters. We therefore suggested that this further 10% compensation, given that this internship was already doubled, that it was proposed from four to eight years under the law and that by Article 22, that the 50% of the average compensation from last month, we think that another special 10% supplement is indeed a great burden on the back, that is, on the burden of the citizens of Serbia, who are really harder to live and harder and harder to function. I don't think these are arguments against the faces that are foreseen in this category of persons that need to be rehabilitated, but one normal frame of the moment and the time in which we live. We are also at the time of an economic instability, the instability of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the real framework for bringing it into the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63823	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Mrs. Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63824	We have submitted the amendment as a parliamentary group of NSs where we have asked for a more precise provision of Article 3, because in the first position it is said – Rehabilitation is the determination of futility, i.e. the inability of acts and actions to which persons of Article 1st Title 1 are deprived of life, freedom or other rights for political, religious, national or ideological reasons. We have made an observation precisely on this term "recognition of vanity", i.e. we have insisted that "inviolability" be deleted, i.e. to delete the words "not chargeable", because the determination of inviolability or determination of incompetence is not the same content of the concept, the fullness of these decisions by which persons are deprived of freedom, rights, property and life is both valid and implemented. So we can't determine that these were non-fulfilling decisions, they were important and they were implemented as such, but now we can determine, by this law, that we cancel them, which is kind of the purpose of this law. So we think that exactly what you've explained to us as a reason to refuse the amendment, that this is more precise. We think that this is precisely, if this word is deleted, or if the term "non-fulfilment" is deleted from both of these third terms. So that'll make it more precise. Unfulfilled, not true, they were important in the time in which they were implemented, established and implemented. According to these decisions, someone lost both freedom and rights and property and life under those important decisions of the then law, the institutions of that time. Whether it was just or not, it's the law, there are more or less just laws. They're always not fair enough for someone, and we just have to respect what's fact and what's really a legal form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63825	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63826	Thank you. The amendment essentially speaks about the state of Serbia. Is the state of Serbia a rich country? It's not. Do we have 750 thousand unemployed? We do. Is there 140,000 people, in fact, at the lower border of poverty? Do citizens have a problem with how to survive from first to first? They do. So, do we have the poor? We do. Do we have social threats? We do. Do we have children and some other citizens of the Serbian state who need help and who are receiving from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? We do. So, if these are all facts, then it is truly surprising that in the Bill of Law to persons who may have the right, if this law is adopted on rehabilitation, and about restitution, not only is it a sack of property that has been seized on the basis of some rulings in 1946, etc., not only will they be rehabilitated, therefore, get moral satisfaction, it is not going a step further here, in such a poor Serbia we now need to provide these people with financial compensation, compensation as it says in a personal supplement as well as the right to compensation for material and immaterial damage. I suggest that this provision be deleted. The reason is very simple and easy to understand for all, but I will try in four, five sentences to explain what I have proposed, because economically undeveloped Serbia and its citizens are not able to provide funds in the next 2012 budgets, 2013, etc., which would pay for special additions and compensations for material and not material damage. Such payments could result in further economic downturns, i.e. our economic power and Serbia in a continent that records both the decline in industrial production and insufficient economic development. I think that all of us, whether we are MPs of the ruling parties or we are from the opposition, as MPs, have no right, citizens did not choose us to pass laws without considering the overall financial opportunities in our country, which will impose additional obligations on the majority of the population, without economic, clear and precise analysis. Why do I say that? In the explanation given by the proposal, the law says no additional funding is needed to implement the law. It's kind of not clear to me, to say the least. So I suggested that these provisions be deleted. Of course, there are possibilities in the combination with the amendment that other fellow Members have submitted to make some discipline there, so to speak, to come up with some formulation that would be both more appropriate and fairer. I know very well that there are very few people on this basis who are going to seek this right and who are going to be able to exhaust it, I mean the cash compensation, but the provision that, in the government's explanation, because of the mental pain, gives these same people the opportunity to receive this cash compensation, is simply unacceptable. I therefore suggested that this provision be deleted and that the possibility be lifted for us from this poor budget of the Republic of Serbia to allocate additional funds for this purpose, however small it is, if someone wanted to pollute and respond to what I'm talking about. It's just that I think it's a principle, because we can't send such a message to our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63827	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63828	I'm going to be very brief to comment on the behavior of the law enforcement officer. Only three amendments have been adopted and none of them fundamentally changes, just as Mr. Varga expected. An amendment was adopted by Mr Mecca Omerovic, where the writing shop is also extended to the speech shop. One Amendment of the Progress Group adopted Serbia, where you say you accepted the amendment because our solution is more precise. It's just, I don't want to gloat, I don't have room, because the law is bad, but don't say it more specifically, if it's about correcting an obvious mistake. The decision of article 4, you wrote that the right to rehab has the person of Article 1 of this Law, which has forgotten other persons who have the right to rehabilitation to other members of the law. We fixed it. It's obviously a matter of negligence, superficiality, correcting a mistake. Don't say it more precisely. Tell me, obviously, it's about a gap that's been corrected, and there's absolutely no problem at all. So it's really necessary that you don't call something - our solution is more specific, if it's essentially different. If we understand ourselves very easily and beautifully to replace the term - a helper and an associate, regardless of where we're from, then I guess you as a government must have enough respect for us, enough professionalism, to call things a real name. To say, we overlooked, it's speed, it's a fruit of compromise, we tried to satisfy everything and calm down and there was a failure. Otherwise, it would be that you give rights to some other members, and in fact, you're holding on to Article 4 that makes it impossible. I think you have to understand that as an opposition, we are someone who wants to fix a law that will come into force. The fact that our colleague Meho is acting today as if he were an opposition, it's welcome very interesting, a little interesting. It criticises power, God damn it, more than some opposition MPs, but we welcome it. It would be good for the government to hear a little bit, but also to read the remarks that stand in the light of these amendments. So the amendment was adopted, not because we gave a more precise solution, but because an obvious mistake was corrected, a failure. It's not our brains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63829	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63830	I thank Mr. Chairman, Article 5 deals with legal rehabilitation, and we have asked for an amendment in Article 5 in point 1) of the proposal to replace the word "legal" with the words "rules and decisions of the competent authorities". Why? Because the point mentioned above states that for an act that was not laid down by law at the time of the operation as a punishable act or punishment for which there was no regulation at the time of the execution. Is it possible for World War II to be passed laws? What is the organ that could have passed the laws at that time? There was no congregation like such a body to pass laws. That's what I told you in the previous debate. It is impossible that during that period other acts and regulations of some authorities were passed, whether we wanted to admit it or not, or regardless of who someone was rooting for during a certain period, were legitimate in that space, in space and in Serbia and in Yugoslavia. We cannot, therefore, make it impossible for the acts that are punishable in accordance with these regulations to eliminate and that everything that was not prescribed by law, and it was impossible to predict in the space where the revolution lasted, and the release of the occupiers, to be passed, Madam Minister, the laws. Under such emergency circumstances, it's impossible to pass laws. We know that from history and the whole situation. That is why we have reacted and asked that Article 5, Article 2, item 1) be corrected and, instead of the words "legislative" be replaced by the words "rules and decisions of the competent authorities". We know that the authorities made regulations and decisions during that period. It's archived and it's common knowledge. We can't eliminate all that. It turns out that we are doing all of this on the burden and on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, both Serbia and Yugoslavia to the expense of someone else. If you're really looking at things that way, in the end, that's the situation. And at this point in time, with this attitude, we are not defending the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what period. We asked to delete the regulations in points 2 - 5), because the current Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia knows them. He knows the crimes of enemy propaganda, malice and false representations, etc. Isn't that a crime? Is that what the current Criminal Code knows? Or, at a certain point, trade in goods? We also have situations that some who have in their files that have traded military shirts, today, unfortunately, that's the situation, run various martial arts organizations. That was punishable at that time, and that is also punishable under the current Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it makes no sense, when all of this is regulated by the Criminal Code, that, in particular for a given period, it is stated, relating to points 2 - 5. What is particularly interesting in point 5) for the crime referred to in Article 2. A law prohibiting the challenge of national, racial and religious hatred and discord, if only done by writing. So what the oral word is is punishable, and the written is not punishable. I took the word out orally by someone who wrote it. My word is punishable. Whoever wrote it is not punishable. I say again that our legal practice, not even the Criminal Code, knows such a finding, as you in Article 5 of point 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) have tried to rehabilitate. You rehabilitate persons who, under current regulations and regulations, do not have the right to rehabilitate. Look, please, come on, they have the right to rehab but they have the right to both the damage and all the powers they have under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63831	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63832	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I think it was the first time that LSV MPs have submitted an amendment that is very similar to the amendment submitted by SNS MPs. I think it says that we should seriously consider what we're talking about. Namely, both Article 4 and the SNS amendment adopted by one of the previous members, I am not sure which one it speaks of, that this law provides for both judicial and legal rehabilitation. Kolega Radovanovic and I have suggested that the crimes mentioned in points 2, 3, 4, and 5, for which legal rehabilitation is envisaged, be deleted from the legal rehabilitation. I did my best, and I looked into those laws of 1946 and other years, to which the crimes involved this legal rehabilitation. These are crimes that are still punishable in our country today and which represent crimes. I believe that against many of these people, the process may have been mounted, but I also believe that in 1946, probably someone was involved in economic sabotage, that someone was deliberately destroying crops, and industrial machinery, reselling agricultural products. The time after the war is a time when many have probably seen an opportunity to profit from what was happening in the country at that time. That's why we suggested that everything that was that guy's crime not go through legal rehabilitation, but through court. That is why I am surprised by the government's argument, which explains that the opinion is that rehabilitation should also be made possible by these persons. I don't consider them, nor did I suggest that they be denied the right to rehab. Let's make it a judicial rehabilitation, that whoever thinks the trial against him or some of his ancestors was mounted, let him prove it, and not that we suddenly assume that all these people are innocent, because there must have been those who were really dealing with these crimes. In every country, in the present time, these crimes would be condemned. I'm saying again, it doesn't prevent their rehabilitation, it just commits them to judicial rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63833	Mr Meso Omerovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63834	I think colleague Jerkov and colleague Radovanovic are absolutely right. Why? Because here, in fact, by my proposal and I support them, we are in no way contesting the right and possibility of certain persons to apply for rehabilitation in the process, as provided for in some of the further members of this bill. But, by legal rehabilitation, to be open, to some kind of "ex specialise," to automatically release them, to amnesty from what they're convicted of, and these are criminal acts under the law of countering illicit trade, illicit speculation and economic sabotage and the criminal act of suppressing illicit trade and illicit speculation and economic sabotage. I'll give you one example. You owned a factory in Belgrade that produced ammunition and weapons between 1941 and 1945. You'll agree with me that they didn't produce for partisans, or those you consider to be anti-fascist movements. They produced weapons and ammunition directly for the Germans, for the Vermax occupation forces, headed by their commander and leader Fuhrer. So, these bullets, that ammunition served to kill tens of thousands of Serbs across Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They were killed with that weapon. After the war, under this law, this man was tried and he was not convicted of war crimes, not falling under those provisions at the beginning of the bill, that he had no right to rehabilitate, because he was not declared a war criminal, he was only convicted because he co-operated and produced something for members of the Third Reich. So this is not about a baker or a shoemaker who produced something in Belgrade or Serbia during the occupation, so the Germans used it. This is about for example. to the owner of the factory that produced, I repeat once again, ammunition and weapons, and as such was convicted of this crime, and now with this bill, the proposer wants to automatically rehabilitate it, give it legal rehabilitation. I think it's unfair and unfair to those people who have suffered, not only from that same ammunition, but also to those who are neither guilty nor obliged to lose their lives in these or those armed formations. Let's be honest and honest. If we are taking care of an ordinary Serbian citizen during that period, the Serbian peasant who has always, unfortunately, suffered, let's be honest and protect him who in tens of thousands of cases was in some formations that were both cooperative and close to the occupiers, but they may have lost their lives without even arms. I'll do it again. I also spoke in the principle debate from this same place. There were hundreds of cases, thousands of cases of entry into the village of an army, I won't name at all who, pick up a man, mobilize him, don't borrow a weapon, and a poor man may lose his life after two days in an ambush. After the war, he declares himself an enemy of the state. Since he had little property, no one is concerned about whether his descendants will return the two hectares of the country to Shumadia or Pomoravlje, etc., and here we are entering the precedent that traders, large-scale capitalists of that period, people who had factories, who directly cooperated with the occupier, speculators and all those who were injured by the Serb people during that period of World War II in Belgrade and Serbia are now able to be rehabilitated to regain their property. Look at the wonders, even their descendants because of the mental pain of getting some money. They don't have much of what they're doing, but they're still looking for funds. I don't think this is fair, and it's unfair to the victims of the same people who produced weapons and ammunition for the Germans at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63835	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63836	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank all those who have submitted amendments and who are participating in this discussion today, because I think it will contribute to making this law as high as possible and better. Unlike the laws discussed by this respected home, which was prepared by the Ministry of Justice, this law is somewhat different from those laws, given that the previous laws that we have defended here were able to defend our position, because to a large extent the provisions of these laws had been developed by the Ministry of Justice or by a working group formed by the Ministry of Justice. I will openly say that this law represents a minimum of compromise between the very often different positions of the parties that make up this government. With many amendments here, I would also say that I agree personally and that I think they are acceptable, but at this point I will not do so, given that further consultations are needed and if there is room we will certainly argue that in the day of voting certain amendments, which are acceptable in our opinion, are accepted and that the other coalition partners are convinced of that. As regards this article and the amendment relating to Article 5, I would say that, although it is legal rehabilitation, it does not mean that rehabilitation is automatically taking place, and this is seen in Article 14, which regulates the rules of procedure, which states in paragraph 1, that the request for rehabilitation of persons referred to in Article 5 of this Act is decided by the court, because in a party procedure, under the rules of the outsider procedure, with the obligation to obtain the opinion of the competent senior public prosecutor. So, if a senior public prosecutor thinks it's not possible to achieve legal rehabilitation, it goes into the so-called procedure. judicial rehabilitation and is under the rules that this law provides for, and when it comes to judicial rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63837	On 28 November 2011, MP Meho Omerovic informed by written notice that he was withdrawing the amendment to Article 5(2) of point 5 of the bill, which was submitted on 7 November 2011. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Mr. Omerovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63838	I've run some kind of test for government officials and motions on this bill. I submitted 14 plus two, 16 amendments, and I assumed that the next logic, just from the reasoning given by the distinguished minister, would be rejected because of the coalition capacity, which is what it is, in the ruling coalition, all my amendments. One amendment I purposely wrote to Article 5 of Section 2, point 5, an amendment that has nothing to do with life, as it is an amendment relating to the 1946 law. Look at the wonders, the government has accepted my amendment, so I pulled it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63839	Thank you very much. We're getting a lot clearer now. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, if the SRS had any dilemmas, after this announcement, we have absolutely no dilemmas anymore. The law is a matter of coalition agreement, but you have also made clear that you are not sure that you will have a majority in the voting day. Since the amendments to both the League of Social Democrats and the SDP have been tabled here, the way they explained Ms. Jerkov's amendments and Mr. Meho Omerovic, Bogomi, as Hope ran in here today, we are not sure that you will have a majority. I would absolutely not be surprised if it had been written here – at the proposal of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes to the National Assembly a law on rehabilitation. Then everything would be clear, although it's clear like this. Three years ago, I was talking about what we're discussing today... (President: Mr Prelicu, Mr Martinovic's amendment reads that article 4 and 5 in Article 5 is deleted. Please, about the amendment. This is an introduction, Mr. Novakovic. You know, three years ago, I was talking about what we're discussing today, specifically about Alexander Martinovic's proposal that Articles 5, 4 and 5 should be deleted. If you do not accept this amendment, it means that Serbia continues to disperse. I am convinced that, as you said, you will wait for the day to vote, that you will consider accepting this amendment. If you do not accept this amendment, Serbia continues to disperse. The Duke will be the Republic. That's actually the goal of this rehabilitation law. Now I'll explain why. Mr Martinovic suggested that members 4 and 5, respectively, be deleted. The law literally states this, because of Serbian citizens: "by law, people who have been declared war criminals, or participants in war crimes, who have not lost Yugoslav citizenship and have not committed or participated in the execution of war crimes, are rehabilitated as well. By force of the law, persons who are also rehabilitated by the Order of the Presidency of the Presidium of the National Assembly of the FNRJ have been abolished citizenship and all property confiscated." You see, Mrs. Malovic, that's why I got a warning three years ago. Because I was in Germany, at what's-his-name. With the Danube Germans living in Bačka, Srem, Serbia's Slavonia, Serbia's Baranja. They come massively in the last four years to Serbia, specifically in Vojvodina. Are you rehabilitating folks, members of the SS "Prince Eugen"? 90% of the people who lived in the duke were in the Nazi unit "Prince Eugen". I'm a witness to that, Mrs. Malovic. At that time, when I was in Germany with the Danube Krauts, the Interior Minister of Bavaria said literally -- that everything was agreed with Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic for the return of property under the Rehabilitation Act. About two weeks ago, the Danube Germans were in Vojvodina, and one of their representatives said he hoped that the last time he came was as a guest in Vojvodina. The next time he comes, he'll come to his homeland. Well, what does that mean, Mrs. Malovic? Miss Jerkov came out (and, here), I wanted to tell her that she was surprised to submit the same amendment as this so-called. SNS. You do not have to be surprised at all, there is no difference between them and Boris Tadic. Even the duke is making every effort to show your European friends and prove that he will disperse Serbia faster than Boris Tadic. So don't be surprised at all. It's just that we'll see Miss Jerkov vote in the voting day when it comes to the Rehabilitation Act. Mrs. Malovic, I sincerely hope that you will not allow Vojvodina to receive the prerogatives of statehood, although there are already many of them and that you will accept this amendment by Mr. Martinovic. If you do not accept the amendment, you will be directly responsible for what will happen in Vojvodina. After what's happening to you at KIM, the next step is Vojvodina. Is there anything you won't agree to when blackmailed? It is clear that Hungarian, it seems to me, the foreign minister, said that if the Rehabilitation Act is not adopted, it would not support Serbia on December 9th on its way to obtain candidate status and start the date of the negotiations. Show once that you want Serbia well and that you think about the citizens of Serbia. As we discuss today what is very important, especially when it comes to this amendment, our people at KIM are in grave danger. As much as you think of Serbian citizens, especially our southern province and Serbs in the southern province, it says enough that the KIM Committee cannot be maintained. We have received information that government representatives have just arrived and we hope that they will come before the National Assembly and the KIM Declaration and that an emergency session will be scheduled. Once again, I ask you, Mrs. Malovic, not to let what happened to Vojvodina happen to KIM, accept this amendment. Look at today's press and what Dragan Vesenov said, that he was surprised to the government of Vojvodina why he did not call a referendum to become a republic. So a step by step is going towards the same goal, which is Belgrade's pasture and pact that you signed with the devil and the EU in 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63841	The word has been given to Miss Jerkov's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it would be convenient for Members of Parliament to explain the amendment's instructions to what is contained in the amendments that explain. In addition to the fact that the position of the 4th Article 5 does not apply to the folks, because they have lost their citizenship, and here it is explicitly said that they refer to persons who have not lost their Yugoslav citizenship. Mr. Martinovic suggested, to my great surprise, that the 5th position on the rehabilitation of the Karadjordjevic family be deleted. Several speakers from the SRS talked about the Chetnik movement, about Draža Mihajlovic, about the king, about the Karadjordjevics. Now, Mr. Martinovic has suggested that the position directly rehabilitating the Karadjordjevic family be deleted, because it is the persons to whom the presidency's command is referred in paragraph 5. It is exclusively the family of Karadjordjevic and no one else. That's why I think before you question someone else's ideological determination, you should question your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63843	The word is Mr. Toolic. You have no right on the replica. You have time from the MP's group. If you want a word, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63844	It's more than clear, Miss Jerkov, that this law wants both the Hortiians and the folks to rehabilitate. Don't distract the public, because they won't come after you. The ideological definitions are absolutely clear. Me and the SRS will never give up the idea of a great Serbia, and I don't know how, if you succeed, given what you are preparing for Vojvodina, first of all, to agree with the SVM, because you have already promised the Croats. So let everyone take care of their ideology and their behaviour, but be sure that Serbian radicals will not allow you to further disperse Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63845	The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Dr. Jorgovana Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63846	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to have to warm this debate up a little bit, as Miss Jerkov did, and I'm going to have to tell my colleague Omerovic that he didn't do a very good job of checking the government's submission of the amendment that is impossible for him. That attitude 5 states that the criminal act in Article 2 is being committed. A law prohibiting the challenge of national, racial and religious hatred and discord, if done by writing. You think because it's 1945 and 1946 that the only documents written are the ones that talk about hate speech. What if we have a ton record? It's a speech done, it's not transcripted, it's written, it's not paper. So this isn't the point. I don't think this is the kind of law we should be making, so I'm gonna say jokes and checks. That's why I just said it's not correct to say that your amendment is more specific. He was correcting the mistake, but I respect, Mrs. Malovic, your urgency as a lawyer is that you have to be on the sidelines and hold your eyes for a little bit when it comes to legal wrinkles because this law is the result of compromise. I am convinced that Mr. Varga would not be angry, because he is a lawyer, that you have adopted an amendment to Article 7(1) which speaks of applying for rehabilitation. You have made it possible for this member to apply by legal persons whose aim is to protect the freedom and rights of a man, a citizen, with the consent of a damaged person. Tell me, please, as a lawyer, in what way would it endanger the right to rehabilitate any man, if you, in accordance with the existing legal system, would the right for every citizen to represent only a lawyer, to prevent NGOs and various associations whose status is disputed in this case – whether representatives, parties, have the power to represent, agree, how to regulate the right to compensation if they do not represent an adequate party, how are they given a reward, etc? It's not a compromise problem. It is not the request of those you are always calling and defending, sometimes unfairly, and I think that this defense of yours for refusing this amendment is simply that you have given everyone the right to submit a request, because it extends the circle of those who can exercise the right to rehab, simply the right to something, the freedom that is impossible to realise because it is facing practical problems in realisation, just by the rules that you have made here in the Assembly, and most have adopted. I think this amendment should have been adopted in any case, because you allow NGOs to interfere in court proceedings, and persons in need of legal assistance, they can get it from the existing institutions of this country. On their behalf, even a public prosecutor could initiate the procedure and those persons would not remain unprotected. But this is what we created for someone else's business. Maybe someone will show up as an entrepreneur in the exercise of the right to rehab? What if it wasn't the most important member, and the whole time he's pointing his finger at Mr. Vargo or the protectors of those who want to actually rehabilitate those who have been forced to mobilize and those who haven't committed a crime against their neighbors? This is a dangerous member and it's inadmissible to remain in law. Because it paves the way for all those who know that today's Serbia's right is not because you have a legal right, but because you know a man who decides about your right, so they say, it's better to know a judge than to have miles of rights behind him and with him, and this member of the law makes it legal. Because, you know, you go to a law firm that's easier and faster to finish, because it has connections and ties, whose lawyers are in the front row, whose judgments are not questioned, whose views are not being questioned. I think as long as there's time to withdraw your position on the rejection of this amendment, for your sake, and for your honor's sake, you should do it, and I ask those who are buried with their authority to exercise the right to rehabilitate the persons who deserve it here, not to allow them to be abused through this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63847	National MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic submitted the 7th amendment together. There's no answer for word. National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63848	We have submitted an amendment to the title above article 9, which we have asked for the title to be changed and that it reads: "The non-depreciation of the right to apply", and then we have asked that this Article 9 be changed, and that it reads: "The right to apply for rehabilitation for violation of the rights laid down in Article 1(1) of this Law does not go out of date". Despite the reasons for the refusal of this amendment, you said that the law provides for a five-year period, that the wish and intensity of the legislator is in fact to implement the law as soon as possible. Given the historical sensitivity of this law, since those who are the real victims of one historical time and one historical injustice to which rehabilitation should be applied, but they are often not among the living and should be done by one of their descendants, we felt that this deadline was inappropriate. I'll read our explanation. Thus, it is easy to imagine the sea of individual life situations and the reasons why the persons who have an active ID may miss a five-year deadline for applying for rehabilitation. We believe that by prescribing the pre-exclusive deadline, however long it may be, the basic concept that the legislator of the law has been run down, which is to correct historical injustice and revive the sense of universal justice in our difficult time and history of a burdened society. That is why we propose this amendment to introduce the law into the law the Institute of Non-Aging, when it comes to the deadline for applying for rehabilitation. Indeed, there are rightly foreseen situations where some deadlines are such that they do not go out of date and we believe that rehabilitation is exactly the application for rehabilitation of one of those institutes where it should remain a lasting possibility of requiring someone to be rehabilitated. It's definitely going to be done by someone who's getting rehabilitated by someone who's no longer alive, and I'm especially thinking about these people, and I care. So we think that this amendment is very quality, we think it would improve on doing more justice to those we want to correct one historical injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63849	National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63850	This amendment concerns a member who speaks of the deadlines for submission of applications, and the promoter said and suggested that the right to submit applications for rehabilitation of this law ceases for five years from the date of entry into force of this law. I think five years is a long time, and I suggested that five years be replaced by three years, because three years, in my opinion, is quite enough to collect evidence. In addition, it is possible for the three years to properly reflect the budget planning of citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the budget, when it is determined, for example, multi-annual projections, financial planning, and when budgeting is made in some years to come. That I'm right, even in an explanation of why they refuse to do so, the promoters are factually quoting what I've given in the light of my amendment. Namely, they say, "Being in mind that the issue of rehabilitation is necessary within the shortest time limit, the envisaged deadline, a very broad circle of persons who can apply, a court decision is a condition for the right to rehabilitation benefits as well as so far made by a large number of decisions. The draft law provides for an appropriate time-limit to which the application can be submitted," and it explains as soon as possible. Since the shorter the deadline, both for them and for me, three is less than five and I think you can accept this and pass as a government that has accepted an amendment from a ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63851	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63852	With our amendment, we have respected the deadline that the motionor had for the right to apply for rehabilitation because of the infringement in Article 1(1) and that it ceases for five years from the date of entry into force of this law. That doesn't mean that many things can be solved before this deadline. So whoever collects the documentation may have solved it in the first three months but the deadline is five years and we have no objection to it, because some people are going to have trouble collecting documents. So we agree that when something is up to five years old that it's just a deadline that doesn't have to go into general, no one has to wait four years to file or complete the request in the fifth year. But we have asked that the deadlines for restitution, i.e. the return of property, and they are set there for two years and comply with this deadline for up to five years as a special deadline for persons who are entitled to rehab. Instead of accepting such an amendment at least at this time, if it is not accepted when we have proposed that deadline in the Law on the return of the seized property, the amendment is rejected and the Government, imagine this – we reject your proposal because it is possible for you to submit a request for a refund of the property before a resolution on rehabilitation has been submitted, and on the basis of the submission of the request for rehabilitation. Well, the kids would say, why simply when it's complicated. So, you're filing a kind of conditional request to return the seized property, and you're applying for rehabilitation here, so if you get the right to rehab, you'll be out of your parole within the time limit to exercise that right. I really don't see a reason why in this way the ministry that is within its jurisdiction, whatever the result of the compromise, should solve these two things within people who prescribe deadlines, do these jobs, organise them, give these non-compliant deadlines that actually create a bunch of items that are in progress and wait for a supplement. As someone who comes to the counter at the first moment about all the necessary elements, documentation, data that needs to be delivered and handed over in order to achieve some right, in the same way you in this law allegedly allow people to get their right to rehab as quickly as possible and quickly as possible, and also to return the taken property. We're just feeling a little bit, how can I tell you, not that that's Mehino's nice, anything that he wanted to try on whether you're reading his amendment or whether it's possible, but this is kind of offensive to all of us. So why didn't you just get that deadline for people in rehab and extend it to five years, not to have a bunch of paper in some closets? When we ask you for a record in some parliamentary question, and how many demands you have solved, you will tell us in a familiar manner – you know, we cannot separate the conditional requirements that await the resolution of rehabilitation, but we have all in one place because we need a new agency, a new secretary, a new car, a new tax to resolve these issues, etc., and so on indefinitely until as one of many, this law, as one of many, becomes a good intention in practical application, remains an unsuspecting term, a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63853	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63854	Article 10 refers to the jurisdiction and composition of the court. In the bill, the proposer says an individual judge decides on a rehabilitation request. I have proposed my amendment that this 3rd position be deleted, which will say that it is fairer that the court makes decisions in the council because it also ensures greater objectivity, i.e. less the possibility of influence on the individual judge, because the individual judge, this fellow Justice Department knows far better than I do, according to the Law on Prosecution, can judge cases that are provided for by that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63855	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63856	We have submitted an amendment to Article 11(1), where we asked that the word "higher court" be said: "now" changes the words "in two working days". What were we in charge of? First of all, we believe that the two working days, i.e. within two working days, is far more precise and binding than the "now" clause, although the "now" contribution suggests that something will be done immediately, at the moment or now. It could stand in the text of the law, but that doesn't mean it'll be done. I think the word "now" is used this way, you'll allow me freedom, you've suggested that this member and this term are a little unserious. If you put in a two-day assignment, then you've really set up an administration to do your job. What if someone doesn't listen and do it right now, or they can't do it right now? What does it mean right now? That means right now. I'm telling you that the administration won't be able to do it exactly like that and that it's precisely appropriate that you accept this amendment and that you separate two working days, how long it takes for someone to really show both intent and really implement what this law has been mandated. Then we will see that this law is seriously thought out, that its execution was really thought about, and indeed those organs that need to implement it will be given the opportunity to carry it out seriously. Two working days is something that demonstrates seriousness and enables such a proposal, i.e. to pass this information administratively as presented by the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63857	The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63858	Article 11 deals with the notification of the application. We agree with the proposed points 1 and 2. The draft law on the basis of Article 11 concerning that, in any case, two or more proceedings are conducted by the Ministry of Rehabilitation of each court, i.e. the High Court must inform the Ministry of Justice at the same time or, if two or more proceedings are conducted, the Ministry is obliged to notify the court before which the proceedings were first brought and there are several cases brought before the same person. To not really take care of state interests is about the following and in a situation where you have no reason not to accept the new position of the 3rd mentioned Article 11 where the SNS suggests that the court must inform the competent public prosecutor of war crimes in cases where a request has been filed, and when it is evident that war crimes has been committed, too. You must agree that there are a large number of such examples and that in the practice that follows in the next five-year period there will be a large number of such examples. If we are to accept a request for rehabilitation and at the same time not to establish the measures, facts, circumstances and responsibilities of those who have committed war crimes, in this case as we have cited the deprivement of life without judicial or administrative decision or forced mobilization in the occupation armed forces or quinspeak formations, and they are both according to the present and current criminal law of criminal acts. Indeed, there is a lack of care, a lack of will to protect the interests of the state of the Republic of Serbia, and even if it is a responsibility, in these cases it is also against some concrete states, and not just persons for such acts. It is impossible to establish a request and bring a request for rehabilitation, and in these cases do not worry about war crimes being committed, serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63859	The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63860	We're not going to explain because the explanation is the same as Article 7, but let me just say why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63861	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63862	We have submitted an amendment to Article 12(1) where we ask that, after saying, "there is no profit in the rehabilitation process" the words "can be approved" are changed in the words "it will be approved". This refers to the approval of free legal aid, which is stated to be in accordance with the law. The government has told us, in the reasons for the refusal of our amendment, in one sentence – the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the decision in the bill is more consistent. Cellulsicity here is a universal word used for all that the legislator thinks gives him the right to refuse something, but I really ask you to pay attention to this termological precision in every member of the law. Something that can be approved and doesn't have to be approved, but if you say something will be approved according to the law, it obliges one who enforces the law to have a really good intention of carrying it out justly, to really help whoever wants to use the law to rehabilitate one of his or her family or someone close to himself. So that's what we thought was very important in this article. It's a termological problem that can then be played, to say the least, or not be applied in the way the law should be applied. What is expected of this law is, we have already talked a lot about it today, correcting some injustices. We swear that we will try to make one dark, black time, one time that we're all talking about so much right now, a little bit more just from the vision of today's day. This is exactly what can be approved, it does not have to be approved, we think it is really right to say – it will be approved. The one who turns to use his right can say that – I do not need it, but the legislator is obliged to provide for it to be approved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63863	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63864	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 12 best paints the government's relationship to this law. The 12th image in this hall also shows what kind of relationship it is, I would say, these rotten and rotting governments, just like the roads around Krupanj, where this government does not want to intervene, and people's lives may later be endangered. One more thing, I subsequently saw what counterpart Meho Omerovic was talking about, which also shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. what kind of relationship the government of the Republic of Serbia has to do with this Rehabilitation Act. Some here said that the 2006 law was not good, and in 2006 they were also in the government and they probably should have been obliged to pass, or to propose a much better law than this one was. The 2006 law had no application for a year or so until simple and court practice agreed to some situations, and then it found its application. Let's say immediately that it wasn't the individual judge's decision during that period, but at that time, the District Court was more than three members. You see what kind of relationship the government had, that is, this relationship to the reformed judiciary as it was. In 50 cases, one judge who may have been the president of the council, who decided on the rehabilitation requirements, as co-author wrote a book describing these cases, the book is called "Under Little Ideology", and he is the District Court Judge I, behold, after judicial reform, he is not re-elected. It's my conclusion, it's a burden on him, it's put on his soul, which is a lot of positive solutions to the rehabilitation requirements he's made. So even now that the Rehabilitation Act is being talked about, probably the offspring will only be looking forward to it for a few days, they'll think it'll be something of this, that some injustice will be able to get rid of, and then in practice it won't be that way at all. I'd like to ask all colleagues who advocate the historic removal of injustice, to reach out in some distant time, to first consider what we can do today. What can we do specifically at this point? And all day long, the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija was scheduled to begin and be held at two o'clock, then at four o'clock, so it seems to me, about 5:30 p.m., finally, the quorum was secured and the session could begin. But it's not enough session of the Kim Approval. When will the National Assembly discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija? Let's not let some generations who come behind us, whose descendants we will be, also have to eliminate some of the injustices that we, even today, are willing to do, some of them are fully aware of and bring about such situations. Next, what's wrong with this law? Of course, he doesn't care for that time-constriction, restriction, bitterness, and we've said since the start of World War II, and why the entry into force of this law? I believe, I agree with a colleague who said – a new degree of human rights does not allow for the possibility of injury as it used to be. Let's take the condition that this is the case, but human rights violations are still possible today. My colleagues spoke first of all and the most violated and threatened right of the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, and will be obliged to remove it. What's going to happen to this law? This law is restricted. So, when this law comes into force, by that moment, some injustices will be able to be resolved, and after that they will not, or another law must be passed. Can we pass the law, or do you propose and pass laws that will have a more lasting value? Now we have one hyperinflation of legal regulations, and those people they're referring to, they complain there's a lot of them, you promise a guillotine of regulations. None of this is happening and nobody's taking care of it. Probably not the ultimate goal. We have another situation, and it's a little bit symptomatic, as soon as the situation in KIM gets a little tight and tightens up, you put in some law that, in your opinion, and an assessment could be interesting and could entertain Serbian citizens. It's not right, and you can't do it like that. We had a law that if you were going to apply it, you could have done it. There's no unity, there's no style in this government. Today they are only following, but with full attention and full capacity, as you from the DS, if there is someone else, there is, colleague Milovanovic, you like to say – in full capacity this debate is followed only by SVM MPs and SRS MPs, in the rest of the part that does not follow the session for KIM. Does a law like this in the title, in what you want to achieve with it, deserve such unseriousness? This is a technical and small thing that will point to all the inconclusiveness of the government of the Republic of Serbia to apply this law. The title is – free legal assistance and costs of the procedure. Article 12 reads - a applicant who is a natural person or a legal person whose aim is not to obtain the rehabilitation process may be granted free legal aid, in accordance with the law. Is it unclear what you're thinking about getting a profit here? If someone filed a property claim, did you in the government think it was the right to profit, or was it just rehabilitation of some other kind, perhaps in its strictest sense, in a moral sense, inconceivable and everything else is profitable? It won't be like that. When you say – free legal aid can be granted, it indicates that you have no serious intention of helping. Maybe it's not much of a cost. I don't know, because I haven't studied that part, or I haven't checked it out, but the state should be stronger and it should help an individual, no matter how much they are. If the party applying for rehabilitation or in person, because under this 2006 law, this book "Smalling Ideology" speaks of some 15 cases, where they personally applied for rehabilitation or perhaps their successors, so that they are interested in being compensated for these costs, i.e. to provide them with free legal assistance, so that they are not deprived of it. You say – they can be granted free legal aid. Who's going to decide that? What will be the criterion? It is completely unclear whether it is a court, is it any other state body that will decide whether the party applying for rehabilitation should also bear those costs? Or might it be a judgment, or judge, of the Supreme Court who will decide? It is unclear and yet unnecessarily you leave the possibility that he will make a concrete decision in the event that legal aid will be provided for free or not. Let's even up some criteria once. At the very end of the line, this leads to the conclusion that the state, or government, as the legislator of this law, has no intention of implementing this law and is not its goal. I would also like to remind my esteemed colleague Mezu Omerovic once again, on a specific case, where, however, Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misita, by order of Commander Draža Mihajlovic and the military minister in the king's government, sent Lieutenant Colonel Misit to Loznica to raise the uprising. Many Lozicians who study these historical problems also call some participants the rebels. Lieutenant Colonel Misita, later and posthumously promoted to the rank of colonel, otherwise he was a member of the king's army and a large number of participants pleaded as members of the Chetnik movement. That's why we in the SRS think that date should be a little bit more respected. Because Loznica was a bigger place, and it was the first place in occupied Europe. She was released, among other things, by the Chetniks in the fight against the Partisans. I think it's a clear situation now that this law will not apply, and some historical facts are so. Georgi Bojić Gjdžu, who was a monk and an elder of the monastery in Tronoša, should also be rehabilitated, where Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misita stayed with others and agreed and made actions and plans how and how to free Loznica, and then it went to a greater extent: Mine, Gornji Milanovac, Čačak, Kraljevo, Kruševac and other places. Have the rebels of Draga Mihailovic done little? I think we have to respect and appreciate today, no matter what option or orientation we belong to ideologically. Something that is a historical fact must be respected and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63865	Thirty seconds remained available as the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63866	I'll have to move quickly, Mrs. Comic, because there are only 30 seconds left and these two minutes. This is truly scandalous that the government has not accepted my amendment, because we, under the law, which we consider to be nakarad and inapplicable, have made a series of objections. The court must participate in researching the fact that the party presents enough facts to establish a specific case and indeed there have been so many examples, Mrs Comic, which we have brought here during the principle debate and in particular. Here, there's only one part of the communist victims in Kragujevac and the surrounding area in front of me, but there's no way I can read it. Imagine, if an interested party does not state some of the facts that some other people have come to, you say, by refusing my amendment, that the court will not, but that it can. Since it happened, and you heard it, is it so that the Ustasha Croatian government has arrested former high-ranking official Josip Bolkovec on the charge that in World War II he has committed a series of war crimes? The topic was updated in Serbia overnight. Then we could hear the statement by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and Bruno Vekaric, who set an excellent example in the manner – yes, but we don't have to be and we don't care. He actually said and said, "Most illegal shootings were after the war, but in some cases we help logistics. Any case of war crime for which there is evidence will be prosecuted, but it is important to disclose valid documentation as well." An illegal organization can only shoot illegally. Is that right? While the murders were mostly committed during and during May 13th, or before May 13, 1945, while the war lasted. But there's no need to go into these details at all, because today we have the Inquisitor's court of this modern era, the Americas and NATO Pact, which has been kept in our president's box for more than nine years, and has been extended for another 30 days by the inability to communicate with its legal advisers, to have so-called. privileged communication. We haven't received any document yet, but that's why we're here today, because today it's popular on these social networks, and these crimes couldn't because of technological development today and that time to hear these crimes otherwise, because history has been written by Broz's communists. But here, these Hague villains released information on Twitter - so what... (President: National MPs, time has been used which is at your disposal. ) Here, I'm done, Mrs. Comic, with one sentence. We don't have any more time, and we can't pick up any more amendments, so we don't have to be unannounced. Indeed, in front of the citizens of Serbia, before you as our opponents, we have proved before the promoter that this law in a legal or political sense cannot be implemented and cannot have its application, but you have taken advantage of the opportunity to draw attention from the situation, first of all, to the loss of the people in KIM, and you all know it very well, all children and partisans and Chetniks were reconciled 20 years ago in the last country war.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63867	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I ask you to respect the time available to us. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63868	I have submitted the amendment to the final position of Article 17, which speaks of a rehabilitation solution, where it is said that a rehabilitated person is not considered to be convicted in a work in which his request for rehabilitation was adopted, and the duration of the sentence is considered an unwarranted deprivement of freedom. I propose that this provision be deleted – and the duration of the sentence carried out is considered an unwarranted depravation of liberty, for the simple reason I want this amendment and I aim to prevent the retroactive submission of requests from a rehabilitated person for compensation of material and immaterial damage due to unwarranted deprivement of freedom. Serbia, I repeat that all day long, and its citizens have no economic or financial potential to pay such fees in future budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63869	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63870	In Article 17. The bill, which speaks of the procedure for obtaining a resolution on rehabilitation and which has five positions, we have proposed to add a sixth position which would oblige the court to make compulsory delivery to the public prosecutor responsible for war crimes, which is obliged to carry out an investigation into the identification of the perpetrators, circumstances and responsibilities of individuals, i.e. the state, in order to make the resolution on rehabilitation in cases of life without judicial and administrative decision and forced mobilisation in the occupation or those co-operation and assistance forces truly legal valid and established, that, on the basis of the resolution on rehabilitation, other rights are sought. Why did we add that attitude six? The existence of a public prosecutor, defending the proposing, as an automatically initiated procedure under official duty, has at least proven to be an institution of countless times which is not applied in the interest of prosecution under official duty. So, you refuse this amendment and you say - there is no need for the court to commit itself to delivering a request to the public prosecutor to determine the circumstances that I have stated, because when a public prosecutor finds out in any way about the crime, he assumes prosecution by official duty. I'm very serious about the House and with great respect for every colleague, you who sit there without the right to answer, but you have to admit that this has become a post-op. He's a criminal. So why didn't you press charges against him? What am I supposed to press charges, this is a public show or a replica, so let the public prosecutor do it, it's his duty. Tell me how many times you've heard that, and how many times have it really happened for the DA to launch a prosecution on official duty on any basis? Anyway, I'm not going to say it exclusively, but mostly if the prosecutor got a warrant from someone politically motivated, not to solve the problems of some who were systematically, corrupt, endangering women, violence against children, any crime, but not exclusively, but mostly the politically motivated consciousness woke up and then the hearing was heard most openly by the prosecutor. We can't leave room for something like that to happen here. We must oblige the court to inform the prosecutor because deprivement of life without judicial or administrative decision or forced mobilization, we are talking about it all day long, and during the war, according to then and now the applicable Criminal Law and International Law are a war crime, so the court is obliged to inform the prosecutor of such knowledge, because if such a crime is the basis for rehabilitation, then there must be criminal proceedings for these crimes. They don't get old. And it would be unacceptable for the court to find that the crime has been committed, to rehabilitate the victim for this reason, to initiate a procedure for compensation, to make payments, and to obtain the right to all those benefits: double work experience, compensation for material, immaterial damages, and at the same time not to initiate proceedings for determining the perpetrator, circumstances, responsibilities and individuals and states for those crimes. It's not a little thing. It's about the essence. There's a right, but if you don't commit someone to act by the law and the obligation they have, there's nothing of it. We all advocate all the time that the budget is thin, that there's no money to pay for every single fee. If someone has indeed suffered unfair damage, they should be rehabilitated, compensated, and found whose fault this man has been forced to do so, and that whoever did so with positive domestic and international regulations is responsible, and will answer when the ordinary court proceedings determine that. This shouldn't be the subject of compromise, because this is a matter of justice, and justice can't be a matter of compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63871	It was used three minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63872	Madam Vice President, we're coming to article 20, which in its title says the rights of rehabilitated persons. All that I was saying, therefore, is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have to separate from the budget in the coming years if this law passes in this form, and I will quote: "a rehabilitated person has the right to a special pension internship, a monthly payment based on an allowance of half the average salary in Serbia, health care, other health insurance rights, the right to return confiscated property or property seized under regulations, or compensation for that property". We're still missing a car, we're packing them up, we're tying up the bow, and it's all solemnly being handed over to them by someone from this commission, whose removal I'm also proposing. So, does the state of Serbia have any money, I've been asking that since the start of the amendment debate, for something that obviously requires huge financial resources? I don't think so, and I don't think it's right. If they have the right to retire, if they have the right to health insurance, I don't dispute it, if they have the right to return property, it's also not slow, but let's think about it, don't let us separate the funds for so-called. Suffering mental pains, not for those who will endure but even for their descendants. I think that's really inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63873	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63874	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment goes in the same direction as the amendment of MP Meha Omerovic and the amendment of the group of MPs forward Serbia, again I say amazingly. Obviously, there are reasons why most MPs or MPs suggest similar things. It is that a large number of rights that can achieve rehabilitated faces, we continue to extend the circle of people who have the right to various benefits, benefits, compensations, material and immaterial damages, etc. It's very worrying that we don't know what the face number is, which is the amount of money it's going to need to separate. That's what I said quite euphemistically, to worry. If necessary, I will say that it is scandalous that the Government has stated in its reasoning that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. How can we, as a state, undertake to pay a large number of persons a large number of compensations and various rights and, in this regard, consider that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia? It suggests either that the government has no intention at all to enforce this law or that it has not given thought, ignoring very broad rights and a very broad circle of persons who are entitled to these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63875	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63876	I suggested in Article 21, paragraph 1, that, after saying, "health insurance" be placed on the point instead of stuck and that the words "as well as the right to rehabilitation compensation" be deleted. This is in line with everything I've said, as such payments would seriously increase expenditures in the Republic of Serbia's budget in the future, with a number of all the implications that would result, and with the extreme outcome of the majority of the Serbian state's population being in an even more difficult financial position.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63877	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Mico Rogovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63878	We have already presented enough arguments, colleague Omerovic, colleague Jerkov and we from the Forward Serbia Parliament Club, and regarding the amendments submitted to Article 3 and the amendment to Article 20 and now to Article 22. In addition to all these arguments that we have presented and all these rights packages, I have to give a special explanation, not only for the retirement internship, as my colleague Omerovic said, but for a double pension internship. Our legal regulations do not know this example, only in the situation of participation in the war, in the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia. You're using this law to introduce the possibility of a double retirement internship. You have to admit that the reasons are justified in the context of this story I'm talking about, that participation in the war is more complex and much more complicated and the consequences of this participation compared to all this package of rights required for persons who will apply for rehabilitation. This would have been a lot more complicated if this law had entered the procedure 20 years ago and been adopted. There are very few people and their heirs who will have the right to apply for rehabilitation. That we are different from others – yes, we are different. We are trying to explain to you the rules that, even as this case, are not in line with the Constitution and we are automatically discriminating. In recent times, and even at the time of your previous government, there are cases where the persons were deprived of their freedoms, held in custody, and later received acquittals. Whether or not they are double included in the time, or so-called time. Retiremental time spent in custody or in prison? No, it's not. Then why are we discriminating these members against other citizens who have passed a certain torture and been released in later processes? We're different from the others. The other day we were attacked for visiting the neighbouring state of Montenegro. Today, we are not under attack for a visit and for attending our delegation of the party president at the United Russia Congress. That's what separates us from all those who attack us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63879	Thirty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63880	He doesn't know what more to say, except that it's really inappropriate for who knows which way to get us out of this poor budget of Serbia, we need to make a special addition, or monthly cash compensation, as this article says. 23. That's why I suggested the next logic of my entire view of this law, that this Article 23 be completely deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63881	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Group of Serbia and together by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković, and National MP Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63882	I'd love to give my young colleague my word, but I'll be very brief. We have proposed that Article 23 be deleted, as Article 23 provides that a rehabilitated person who has received a special internship from Article 22 of this Law, for at least eight years, is entitled to monthly cash compensation, a special supplement of 50% of the average monthly salary in the Republic of Serbia in the previous year. The calculation of the coordination and payment of the allowance shall be carried out by the Republic PIO Fund, etc. and only when I explain to you the following point 2 when I say that the calculation and coordination of the PIO Fund, you can't help but remember, that up to four months back, the PIO Fund has only funded 30% of the budget, and that now the grant of pensioners who have been entitled to pensions by their work has come close to 46% of the participation in the budget. This percentage will increase, in proportion to the recognition of the number of unemployed people, the relatively inability of the tax administration or the lack of desire to pay taxes and contributions, which employers have to pay monthly, and the tax administration does not control. In these and such circumstances, missing funds are prescribed by the right of rehabilitated persons to receive besides other rights and 50% of the average salary in the previous year, which is almost equal to the level of the average pension, is as simple as not caring about their own future. It's not even that we don't care about our children, we don't worry about how we pay pensions in the next three months. No, I'm not thinking at all about scaring someone, that this is a law that will burden them, he's obviously a law that will overburden and discriminate against other categories of damaged persons already mentioned in the previous debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63883	Alexander Jerkov's national emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63884	The explanation is the same as for previous amendments concerning this topic, I don't think the state is able to grant people 70 years ago some kind of injustices that don't have people five years ago, or 10 years ago, or two years ago some kind of injustice, to be discriminated against by people who have gained the right to retire by their work. That there is no means for this in the Republic PIO Fund, and if it is not foreseen, and it is obvious that the Government does not provide that additional appropriations should be provided, I ask for an answer in which way it will be paid, if not at the expense of those who have gained the right to pension by their work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63885	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jorgenka Tabkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63886	I have a question for the promoters or to pass on to whoever was authorized to talk to us. Has anyone ever read the amendment to Article 25? We asked that in Article 25 of the proposal, the words "or the assets seized by the basis of the regulations laid down in Article 2 of Article 1 of this Act" be deleted. For the purposes of Article 25, which provides that in Article 2(2) or Article 2(1) thereof. It's not written at all, it's not mentioned at all any legal basis. You called for something that doesn't exist, we were convinced it was a failure, a mistake, a speed, it's happening. No, you refused the amendment, and in the explanation of the rejection of the amendments you wrote – we do not accept it because it is necessary to return the property that was taken away from another rehabilitated person and when it is not confiscated property. So, you didn't realize at all that you wrote that there was no basis for returning the taken property. So, that member you called for, there's no basis other than the confiscation for the seized property. You say you'll return on that basis. May it serve you honor, as much as you respect yourself and this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63887	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63888	In line with all the amendments I have made to the members of the three and over 20, 17, 21, so here I suggest that this one erases the possibility of paying off rehabilitation compensation, because it is true to return to 60, 70 years, as counterpart Jerkov said, and does not take care of the injustice that has been done by hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have lost their job in the good part of suspected privatisations, in the last 15 to 20 years. So nobody cares about them like they don't have a soul, like they're not suffering some mental pain because they're out of work, that they may have nothing to live on. So we only take care of the mental pains of grandchildren, the great-grandson of those who have either been held in custody or are somehow deprived of freedom. I'm talking about those who are deprived of freedom, unfortunately, and of course I don't get into those cases when people have lost their most born. So the key question is, why are we doing this? Why is it that a state that has no money in the budget or for elemental needs now prepares certain financial resources, to compensate, to compensate for the loss of mental pain to those to whom we will repay the property, to those to whom we will give a double internship, to those to whom we will provide health insurance, to those to whom we will give half the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. It's really not clear to me, but I'll be surprised until the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63889	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Aleksandra Jekrov and Radovan Radovanovic. The People's Messenger, Alexandra Jerkova, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63890	I thank Madam Vice-President, Mr Radovanovic and I have proposed this amendment to delete those provisions of the law which have been arranged to compensate for the immaterial damage of other persons. My question goes in the direction of whether some other law may have arranged immaterial damages for children who have lost parental custody because their parents fought in World War II, because they died in World War II, or only for those who otherwise died in this war and after the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63891	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the 27th and the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic, who has a word. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63892	All I've been saying all afternoon is logically that through my amendments, the existence of this committee is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63893	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 27 and 27 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63894	We have submitted 18 amendments to this law, and I will only defend this one to Article 27, because he essentially explains these next two, and he is talking about the damages and the recognition of the pension. We believe that it is absolutely unnecessary in a special way to determine how the Government has explained, in a special way, that it is necessary to set out a special procedure for the exercise of rights for persons who apply for rehabilitation compensation. We believe that it is necessary for the right to compensation for material and non-material damages and the right to the pension internship of rehabilitated persons to be carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings. It doesn't matter if it's perfect, less or more good, but the more unique access to all the damaged, unjustly accused, damaged, the more justice in this country. All the specialities, all the discretionary rights, all the lex specialis of experience, the laws, exceptions, the birth of a real galamitias, the legal rsomonia in which citizens will always feel hurt, and what is evident, in this way and with this kind of compensation, we will really suffer everyone. The law on criminal proceedings is a comprehensive procedure for the exercise of the right to compensation and material and not material damage and the right to an insurance internship for unfounded convicted persons, so it was completely excessive that you prescribed special rules here. What else is interesting? You left a rule book to settle some open questions later. You have otherwise arranged one situation that appears in many cases and is our reality and you are in fact bringing citizens under the guise of wanting to depriving and enforcing someone, in fact you are violating your own Constitution, in violation of the equality of citizens in front of courts, you are violating their rights, and yet again with the story that we want to ensure justice and justice. It is an impression that you may have mentioned a little bit, that this law has written to those who seem not to know that the issue of compensation for unfounded persons has already been governed by the Criminal Procedure Act, so they needlessly exposed themselves to additional efforts and attempts to regulate it by this law, but in a way that none of us who are seriously dealing with this law can agree or consider it correct, and I even feel like it devalues a little bit and all of the laws that you have been defending here with a heart. Whether or not we agree with some solutions, we believe that this is a law that was really unnecessary and will indeed return as a boomerang and to those you wanted to do, but first of all to you as authors of such a compromise, senseless and inconsistencies law that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63895	This used the time available to the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 28 and Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63896	It doesn't seem to make sense anymore that the fairy I'm trying to convince is not going to accept anything I suggested from the start.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63897	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankov, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) A group of 21 MPs, MP groups, advance Serbia and MP Meso Omerovic submitted to the 31st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This is the last amendment to the search in particular, the last amendment submitted to Article 31. Before I conclude, the word has a minister of justice, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63898	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who have discussed this bill in principle and in particular. I also thank the MPs who have sent the amendments. On this occasion, I will remind myself of the importance of adopting this law, since the current Rehabilitation Act, which regulates the rehabilitation of persons deprived of freedom, life or other rights for political, ideological reasons was adopted in 2006, and that one of the most important issues, the question of the rights of rehabilitated persons is not regulated. Article 8 of the still applicable law states that the right to compensation for damages and the right to recover confiscated assets of a rehabilitated person will be governed by a special law, however, we felt that it was necessary to pass a comprehensive law that would regulate one and the other part and therefore this bill is in this scope today before you. Also, on this occasion, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court has referred to us on several occasions. I believe that we had an additional obligation to fully settle this issue. So far, some 1,500 solutions have been submitted, i.e. The court's resolutions to rehabilitate also in front of senior courts were brought in about 1,500, since they are competent to act in a new network of courts. In these disputes, there are still about 800 procedures under rehabilitation requirements. This bill regulates rehabilitation and, as I said, the legal consequences of rehabilitation of persons who are for political, religious, national or ideological reasons deprived of freedom, life or other rights. Unlike the applicable law, this law extends and precises the circle of the person to which rehabilitation applies, as so far there has been a misunderstanding in court practice. Also, on this occasion, I want to point out that the applicable law is largely not accurate, because it has completely avoided regulating the rehabilitation procedure, and then the Supreme Court had to do so in its positions, which I find unacceptable for a case conducted before the court. The right to rehabilitation does not have members of the occupation forces and members of the Quincepian formations that participated in the execution of labour crimes. The bill, as you yourself have concluded, provides for two types of rehabilitation – legal and judicial. Legal rehabilitation, i.e. rehabilitation by law and rehabilitation on the basis of a court decision. Regardless of the type of rehabilitation, in order to acquire the properties of a rehabilitated person, a court decision is necessary, where, in legal rehabilitation, the court finds that the person is rehabilitated according to the law, while in judicial rehabilitation, the court rehabilitates his decision. However, in today's debate, I pointed out that legal rehabilitation does not represent automatic rehabilitation, if there is an opinion by the public prosecutor, where it is necessary to carry out judicial rehabilitation, that will be done. The bill prescribes the rules and rehabilitation procedures, which is a newspaper in relation to the current law. I have already pointed out that the applicable law is applied based on the views of the Supreme Court. A request for rehabilitation shall be decided by the court in a unilateral or bilateral procedure and by the rules of the non-partisan procedure. In a unilateral procedure, the court decides on legal rehabilitation, with the opinion of the competent public prosecutor previously obtained. In the event the public prosecutor contests a request for rehabilitation, further court proceedings will be conducted as two-party. When it comes to judicial rehabilitation, the court decides in a two-party procedure, with another participant in the process as a competent public prosecutor representing the Republic of Serbia. In relation to the applicable law, rehabilitated persons are provided for the widest possible scope of rights that can be achieved by those persons. These persons shall have the right to a special pension internship, monthly cash compensation, health care, the right to recover confiscated property or otherwise seized property. I know there's been a debate here and I know who's a member of the 26th. In my previous statement, I said that there are some amendments that are acceptable from my point of view, but given that, as I pointed out, this law represents a minimum of compromise between the political parties that make up this coalition, we will hold additional talks by day to vote. I would still like to point out that there is a judicial decision on rehabilitation to obtain rehabilitation in order to obtain rehabilitated compensation. Once again, I thank all those who participated in the debate, and I express my hope that this law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-28-0.u63899	After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill in particular and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. This concludes our work today and we continue to work tomorrow, on Tuesday 29 November 2011, at 10.00 hours, and the working day of the session will pass in search of the specifics of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which is the 2nd item of the agenda with 29 amendments submitted, and then, once we have completed the review of these amendments and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Police, on which 65 amendments were submitted and the search in the details of tomorrow's work day, we will conclude the working day of the session. Tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you.
