ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. I will immediately remind you that this Article 1 refers to definitions of concepts. It is good that further definitions are given in this law, such as distance, track, fees and tariffs, etc. In this part, the Serbian Radical Party submitted several amendments with the idea and the goal of improving the text of the law. In that sense, my amendment applies to a better definition of the concept of a remote. In the proposal of the Government, which in law gave the concept of a remote, it is unclearly defined and it represents a mutual link between different physical sizes, however, they are contained in this definition of concept. However, my amendment asked for two different physical sizes to be seen in a clearer way, and these are the route and time needed to cross the road. Of course, according to the laws of physics, these facts give rise to the third physical size, which is the speed of the vehicle's movement. The government has rejected my amendment, and that is, by reason of the fact that the amendment is identical to the text of the bill. I don't think so, though. When a little more detailed insight into the very text of the law and more detailed insight into what I've been asking for with my amendment goes into that matter, it can be seen that it isn't. I believe that the government could adopt this amendment of mine, as it adopted some amendments to the SRS on this subject. On this topic was my colleague Milan Avramovic's amendment. He referred to the concept of the course and was adopted. I can tell you that there are a lot of amendments to the SRS adopted by the government. I have the impression that because of that fact, a large number of amendments to the SRS were adopted, this amendment was not adopted because of it. Aroundly, the government handled itself with one fact – we have adopted a lot of amendments to the SRS. They've had enough. If we adopt this amendment, it might be too much. And worst of all, we'll see through some later amendments to this law that it's the same argument. So, there are several amendments submitted by the SRS and they were rejected, also with an explanation that they are identical to the proposed text of the law, which I believe is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54227	Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Sinisha Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54228	In the process of amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, we have proposed in due time, and at the request of all associations of carriers, and not only of taxi carriers but also of road transport operators, that in the proposed text of the amendments and additions to the existing Transport Act in road transport, Article 6a is added after Article 6a. This article reads: "Auto-Tax transport may be carried out by legal persons and entrepreneurs whose main activity is the transport of auto-Tax passengers, registered in the Register of Commercial Entities, in accordance with the law governing the registration of commercial entities and who are authorised by the competent authority of local self-government to carry a passenger car taxi". We considered that, and the union requested this, that the said provision should be amended and that it reads: "A car-tax transport can be carried out by legal persons and entrepreneurs whose exclusive activity is auto-tax transport of passengers, which have been registered in the Register of Commercial Entities for the performance of that activity, and in accordance with the law governing the registration of economic operators and who have the approval of the competent authority of the local self-government to carry out a passenger car taxi." In the debate in principle, we gave a more complete explanation as to why we believe that too much authority has been given to local self-government when it comes to auto-tax transport. In the light of this request for amendment and addition of Article 6, we gave the basic reason for the draft law on amendments and amendments to compliance with the laws and regulations governing traffic safety, as well as the specificity of the car-task transport as a type of public transport. In fact, if the proposal remains that taxi transport can be carried out by persons whose taxi activity is too heavy, but only one of the activities they are dealing with, the provisions of the positive traffic safety regulations would be drastically violated. Subject regulations are more than clearly regulated the number of lessons a professional driver can spend a day doing this work. Moreover, it is strictly prescribed that these faces are to be used during the course of their work. It would be extremely difficult to imagine that one person performs his other activity during the day, and then, after, say, eight hours, performs a car taxi ride. Mr. Minister, we ask you once again to adopt this proposal, because we think it's extremely technicalally correct, legally subservient, and it would allow only those who register with the PIO as real entrepreneurs to do this activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54229	It was used one minute from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 7. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 8. Does anyone want a word? (No) Otherwise, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Do we have the position of the motion for an amendment submitted by the Committee to Article 8? In the event of a positive statement of the amendment, and since it is submitted by the parent committee, and the Legislative Committee has already expressed itself positively, then the amendment would become an integral part of the bill. If so, I ask the motionary's representative to apply, to get a word and say he accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54230	We accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54231	I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment and has become an integral part of the bill. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54232	Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, we wanted to try this amendment once again, given that under the current provisions of this law in Article 36, great powers have been delegated to local self-government and given that there is no necessary law which would specifically regulate the matter of auto-taxis transport as a special activity, that these amendments propose changes and additions which would reduce the powers of local administration, or lead to levels for them to decide on the ongoing, technical and organisational issues in the work of this service, and that issues of great importance for the organisation of the service itself at the level of the Republic are regulated by a special law. It should be borne in mind that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has made more than 20 decisions at the time of the law, which determines the violation of the Constitution and the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, and by local self-government, and that more than 1,000 proceedings are currently being conducted before various courts concerning the jurisdiction of the Republic and local administrations. In practice, local administration allowed cars up to eight years old, with the euro three, the euro four engines, and there is no law. I would also like to draw attention to Mr. Minister, and also to the general public, that taxi drivers now have an obligation to single out over 23 thousand dinars each month, and associations and over a million dinars, so that they can survive on this so strict and so demanding market. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54233	The word is from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54234	Mr. Minister, there was a marble in the hall, I heard almost the whole argument of Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic and he has now opened a question concerning many cities in Serbia, local self-government. I think his intention was for this 1st position of Article 9 to be more precise and that authority and regulations were passed within the limits of this law. Here's why. We have a situation that in the town of Kragujevac, where a large number of people, after closing their home car factory, lost their jobs and in search of basic life existence, began to operate a taxi ride. Now, if you come to Kragujevac and anyone who comes in after a while sees that there are thousands of taxis, but the size of their business is not that big, since the price of the start has recently changed and that's 40 dinars. You may think that this is very expensive for poor Kragujevac, and by the very fact that what Mr. Stamenkovic was saying after the Constitutional Court's decision, there were over 20 of them, that those vehicles that were not in this strict criteria could be included in the taxi transport, so the number itself of new companies and new carriers has increased. However, we believe, given that in the city of Belgrade, as well as in Kragujevac and in many towns of Serbia, there is always before or before the new tariff, or before the setting of the age limit of vehicles, really difficult social issues are raised. If you don't accept this amendment now, Mr. Stamenkovic, but he really wanted it to be precise, so all those decisions of local self-government are moving within the limits of the law, because I can't know, you know, it's so much, now it's the beauty of these local acts that we have one decision in Surdulica, the second in Nis, the third in Kragujevac, etc. Therefore, units of local self-government should be able to move beyond the limits of this law in order to avoid the problems that arise in the local environments. I think that was an obvious intention. Here, my colleague, Stamenkovic, approves, because we can no longer wander, nor do we make one decision as representatives of local self-government in one city without it being valid in another or third.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54235	Used three minutes of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 9. Is the representative of the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pleading, please sign in. The word is Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54236	We accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54237	Thank you. I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment to Article 9 which was submitted by the Transport and Connection Committee. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 10. I'm asking the Proposer to come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54238	We accept that amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54239	Thank you. I also find that the proposing representative has accepted the Committee's amendment to Article 10. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 11, and it refers to Article 15. Road traffic laws. Article 11 is located in the part of the law that regulates road traffic in the Republic of Serbia and because of the number of passengers using road transport, we have submitted this amendment in order to point to several specific examples of the problems present in this area, which you have touched only on the surface or have not considered at all. In Article 15. The road traffic law was inter-urban and inter-republic transport was carried out by buses that meet the prescribed conditions for inter-urban buses, deleted inter-republicly, of course, necessary, the law was passed in 1995 and since 2000 had several amendments. Since there is no longer any SRJ, there is no longer any State union of course thanks to DOS authorities, as counterpart Zoran Krasic would say in any aggregate form, then there is no more of this state and it is quite unnecessary for the law to be inter-republic and inter-republic traffic. Furthermore, you have suggested to use buses with at least 20 seats. We propose to delete this, not to limit the number of seats and, Mr Mrkonjic, engineer Mrkonjic, I will not be the problem at all with a few concrete examples of showing and making an argument that makes you, I am almost certain, not only because you are human but because you often have an understanding of the life that Serbian citizens live and accept this amendment. I guess I'm not taking out lonely examples, that it's more or less present almost in all of Serbia. There is enough fact that, for example, there is no bus transport from the city center to local areas or certain places in the town of Zajecar. I'll make a few more specific cases. For example, a village called Orovička Planina, which is about 30 kilometers away from Love and has no bus transport, and it is quite certain that citizens living there, or peasants living in Orovička Planina, do not expect a bus from 50 seats in the village 30 kilometers away where, by the way, more than half the road is macadam, but they expect to transport much smaller vehicles. So you don't have to limit it to 20 seats than maybe less. Recently, I spoke to the director of a car company or a company that says, where the van is seen and in the function of passenger transport, traffic problems are very difficult and serious. It's from the aspect of getting that company. We must take care of the people living in these remote villages and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all your Ministry, engineer Mrkonjic, should take care of it and that would be a good strategy. We can't develop villages where the wrong policy has been going for 50 years, especially in the last 10 years, but we can keep some state of acceptability for those people who live there. What's going on here? If the children who go, I speak specifically for this village that I have already mentioned Orovička Planina, if children after schooling from the fifth to eighth grade have to go to bigger cities such as Valjevo, then naturally, logically, that their parents, because that child is not yet formed to be able to take care of themselves, their parents leave these villages and leave with children. If we are to intervene in such situations right now, then we will have only one situation, that we will have small buses and busses with 50 seats, but only in Belgrade, we will have to coaches, some buses for each other to drive around Belgrade because there will be no such thing in other villages. What else is necessary? I know I'm a little out of the loop here, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, but this is all in the area where you run it, that is, through your ministry, it's up to you. There are two municipal sites, that are Bajina Basta and Kosjerić. Distance 40 to 45 kilometers. There are about 10 km of macadam, an alternative solution and coming from one place to another, otherwise those two places, and two municipalities belong to the Zlatibor County, must go about 120 to 150 km. It's only about a mile away that's not paved. It is similar to the situation of Ljubovija – Krupanj, where the Pussy Stone will soon mark the anniversary, and I think you could make sure that the part of the road where it is several kilometers, and they also point to the alternative directions of Ljubovija – Mali Zvornik – Krupanj, over Loznica, also about 120 km. We should pay serious attention to the solution to these problems if we think we are taking care of balanced regional development. What this government advocates is not at all a balanced regional development, but a regional division, and a political division, which is not good at all and does not need to accept such a situation. In light of this law, it is said that a lot of jurisdiction has been transferred from the republican level to the level of local self-government. It is when it comes to driving order, setting bus stops, and I think it's a minor problem. Of course, this area needs to be arranged in the best possible way. But it's not a big problem bus stop, because mostly local carriers know where there's a need to build those bus stops. Not anything luxurious, but simply to mark where passengers are boarding and landing, and that's not the problem. I think these problems that I was talking about, which were well and qualityd by counterpart Nikola Savic, so it seems to me that when it comes to part of the Raška area, a colleague of Poturak spoke, Minister Mrkonjic then said that he was getting into some problems, because he was talking to his schoolmate who had some connections and influences there. Please pay serious attention to these problems and this argument that I was talking about on this part of the job. What's going on at the bus stations? At bus stations, if a passenger wants to receive information about a particular route when he has the next first, passengers always ask for the first, or most often for the first carrier, those working on bus stations do not tell them that information, but tell them about another carrier, probably according to the agreement. That's what he's got, and I think the transporters are gonna try to get the bus station owners to solve the problem, but that's what he's got in mind. Furthermore, by reading the government's arguments for which it has not accepted some amendments, I think it has done the right thing from the aspect of what is the subject of this law, which refers to the amendments tabled by counterpart Rajkov. You said it was the problem of the second law. It is, and let's leave. But when you propose amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, you have these amendments submitted by your colleague Rajkov and to address the problem. The problem when travelling in disabled, elderly, pregnant women is also expressed, and to try to solve it through that law, please note that so let it be your proposal to amend and supplement that law. We do not suffer from the acceptance of the SRS amendment, but we do care when we talk about laws and when laws are passed in this House that they are as high-quality as possible and that they solve the problems of citizens who are indirectly tied up. As far as passengers are concerned, how important it is to solve the problems of carriers, to solve the problems of road transport companies, the problems of passengers are as important and to address these problems. By increasing the penalty, some situations will change, we will put those who have abused the provisions of the Transport Act in road transport down to the minimum possible extent, but by accepting this amendment, we will remove a number of problems and I think we will make at least one small contribution. Mr. Mrkonjic, try to help those people who very rarely come to the seats and small municipalities, not to mention in Belgrade and the urban areas, and they could be helped by accepting this amendment to the SRS and allowing traffic not only by vehicles above 20 seats, but also below. I am absolutely certain that a large number of local environments are not in a position to help companies involved in auto-trafficking, but the ministry would have to have that in mind, so through the RS budget to intervene in a certain number, and to a small extent, which is only one part, makes life more bearable to those who have defined themselves to stay in villages, that we do not disappear every year for 30,000 residents. It's something else, though. But very few people are interested in living in villages. If one is identified, I think the government and the ministry should give him full support.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54241	Eight minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. Proposed legislation on transport in road transport. The aim of this amendment was to extend the time limit for registration and over the order of driving in relation to what the Government had predicted. I will remind you that the government has provided for this deadline to be from April 15th to April 30th, and I am asking my amendment to make that deadline from April 1st to April 30th, that is to say that it is much longer. However, I have the impression that the government is mixing two things. One thing is the deadline to be given to transporters in which they have to submit these requirements for the over-arrangement of driving order and registration application, and another thing entirely is the deadline within which the Government should resolve these matters. While the government here has prescribed this deadline for the carriers, I think it's too short, there's no telling what's the deadline for the government to handle it. The most important thing is, however, that the government is, within a reasonable period of time, resolving this requirement by the carrier. It's their thing, that's the government's thing, whether it's going to be approved on application for registration of a driving order or not, but I have to say that this deadline is too short. That's why I intervened with the amendment to this article of the law, especially what we know about the time from April 15th to April 30th, and that's exactly the time we're in right now, and today it's April 20th, and it's usually Easter, and we know that these Easter holidays match May 1st, sometimes they bond with the weekend, and then it can create additional problems. Since I mentioned this deadline and since it's just these days, I'm going to show it on the case, today is April 20th, and the first deadline according to what the government predicted was April 15th, Friday, and then it's going on weekend 16th and April 17th and this deadline starts on April 18th, and there are between the days for this job, and it's already April 22nd, the Big Friday that's not happy, and then there's a big Monday that's also a rough day, and we see that deadline isn't really what it looks like on paper. And not only that, this April 30th is Saturday and practical, after these Easter holidays, the possibility of solving this issue is from April 26th to April 29th, it's Saturday, then it's the first holiday, and when it's all included this 15-day period is realistically down to eight working days. This may be an additional circumstance for this deadline to be further reduced. So I think that the government should reconsider once more, consider all of this and extend this deadline to the period from April 1st to April 30th. I would like to stress that one deadline for those people, for the carriers, who apply, is the deadline for registering the order of driving, and it is a whole other matter within which the government should resolve this and bring a solution. And of course, when it comes to the deadline for the government to do so, that deadline should be as short as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54243	Two minutes and 50 seconds have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Before we continue to work, a notice of confirming the mandate of a National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the conditions have been met, I propose that I establish my mandate to the MP in the National Assembly for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable the MP to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with the MP and with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ljiljana Lucic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, I find that the mandate of MP Ljiljana Lucic is confirmed and I congratulate her on the election, so that these have obtained the conditions to join us in the work when other obligations enable her to do so. The following amendment in the search in particular, pursuant to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Transport and Connection Committee have submitted an amendment. Does Prime Minister Milutin Mrkonjic have a say in this amendment? Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54244	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54245	I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment. Anyone else want a word? National MP Milan Lapčević. You want to talk about this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54246	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, I hope you don't mind me saying this, it will stop in two minutes, and I believe it is a very important topic, not directly related to this amendment, but I simply think we should use the presence of Minister Mrkonjic to point to a very big problem, which has been going on for a long time. It's a car registration in the Nis Police Department. So, since the new law came into force, that's the end of 2009, all police administrations have had time for a year to adapt to a new way of registering cars. However, at the Nis Police Administration, it's kind of sloppy, so huge lines and people just can't come in line for days to file car registration, and waiting on tables and the necessary documentation is more than three to four weeks. During that time, they can't use their car, so please, since your party chief is also a police minister and it's about a traffic programme, there's an assistant minister, your transport assistant, that you just have this in mind and you're doing something about it. There are huge lines, harassing citizens, just one big anxiety, even a group of people who simply pointed to this problem, and since no one has addressed them, I'm afraid there are no protests and side effects. I think it can be solved by hiring a much larger number of people on car registration. It's just not pleasant when you have to wait all day to hand over the paperwork, so then take that same paperwork you have to wait again all day. Indeed, one unnecessary harassment of citizens who can simply be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54247	I ask the Service of the National Assembly to send the presentation held by MP Milan Lapcevic, along with the relevant members of the Rules of Procedure and my signature, directly to Minister Ivica Dacic, or Deputy Prime Minister. It does not diminish the possibility that Minister Mrkonjic has more influence than the entire assembly, but that we should try it anyway. Here, he says he has no greater influence than the entire congregation. I also inform the National Assembly that the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group is MP Jovan Palalic. I would also like to inform you that the amendments are in order. 18 and 20, which was submitted by MP Munir Poturak, by the decision of the amendment-makers withdrawn, and cease to be the subject of a search in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Transport and Relations, submitted an amendment to Article 21. Does the proposing representative have a bet? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54248	We accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54249	I find that the proposer's representative has accepted the amendment to Article 21. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP GoranMichajlovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and the MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54250	Mr. Minister, we are now coming up with a really new provision that will be and how difficult it will be for those who are finishing the vanlinic transport, because now it is the first time you have introduced the new attitude that you have proposed in the amendment and supplement of the Law, that the passenger transporter must keep a list of passengers for two years. Professor Mihajlovic considered that provision meaningless and very difficult for anyone carrying out that transport. I don't know why the justification for refusing this amendment is so as to make it easier to carry out inspection. If someone in this procedure were also the other party who concluded the contract with the vanlin transport carrier, I would understand that, which is otherwise an obligation under the law when it comes to tourist agencies. They are mostly looking for vanlinic transportation for tourist trips, to have a list of passengers, i.e. users of services, excursions or tourist trips. Now, you carriers, in addition to all the paperwork they have, are obliged to keep it for two years, and believe that in practice it will be very difficult. We simply don't think that we should burden them with it, especially the fact that it's in the accuracy of how this list of passengers should look, so that everything is clear at the very beginning, or before the vehicle leaves the starting point. She already specified the SRS with the next amendment, so I will not report in Article 24, where counterpart Avramovic also went one step further from you, so he said, "The list of passengers must be fully filled, completed and certified by the stamp of the transporter before the start of the vehicle". We can understand that and it should be that kind of control. That's much better. Before leaving the vehicle from the destination, it is clear which places the carrier can pick up passengers in the vanlinic transport. I understand those who collect from all sides of people and organize these with the help of their mentors and tycoon rallys and no longer know who the conclusion of those contracts is, or who pays. It's impossible and they don't have the options. SRS, this is why colleague Avramovic also went this precisely, I believe, when you have your activists coming to some gathering and you have a cleanly filled transport and a list of people coming, party members, sympathisers. It's normal that you won't have a problem here. A contract has been concluded through your political party, right, centralized accounts, that's how we do it. Those who do so, I say, beyond the limits of the law, not to use any other term, will find themselves in that problem, as far as this next Article 24 is concerned. This is indeed the amendment of counterpart Goran Mihajlovic. It's not just a text of technical nature to erase it, it's a newly added attitude, but it's something that's really hard to implement in practice. Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you for a little more attention, another minute or two more of our parliamentary group, because we've already entered the domain of a passenger transport carrier, so that if possible, you can answer me now, and if not, some next time, and I believe you're familiar with the problem of Kragujeva's Autosport. It's a big-debt company, and it's probably raised to a billion and 100-200 million dinars right now, a company that can't and isn't capable because it's been stolen and it's eaten its own substance, and now it's up to the state authorities to deal with it because there's been more and more criminal reports, to find out that all that capital's gone. It's simply a company that, with the size of its work, the number of employees and the lines it has registered in your ministry, should be profitable, as well as any other who does. But from year to year, day to day, he does business with a growing loss. What is the only possible solution proposed by the SRS? We treated this issue very seriously, both in Kragujevac and here, speaking of some other laws. Given that it is almost a thousand employees and that the integration of employee staff has not been carried out in the past five years, and that the conversion that was made last year, check this out, your associates already know that, the debt that existed according to local self-government, the government of the Republic of Serbia now, together with the town of Kragujevac, owns 54% of the company "Autosport", my particular question is – is something being done in this direction? Does the Serbian Government have any interest, in the idea that a company that is the largest in the forest area is being saved and that concrete measures and activities are being taken to protect these people now on ice, have no associated internship, and especially what is to be done with those, because it is once again a new one in Kragujevac social problem, and there are about 300 in the company, which are on the list of extra employees, and they still have no possibility to retire? So that's a really complex problem. I wouldn't waste any more time on this law, but I'd ask you to get involved and look at it. It is also the Ministry of Economy that must be involved, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but employees of the "Autosports" Kragujevac and how they have been waiting, for more than a few years, for this problem to be solved. Mr. Minister, this company is not at all capable of performing its duties at all. They keep the lines they have and they're registered, they're out-of-line traffic with your ministry, and I even think there's only a few international lines left, because there's no bus. But what a disaster in the town of Kragujevac they should take over the transport of at least 30,000 of my fellow citizens, and they were unable to do so, so a contract was made with Belgrade's Lasto and now about 40 Lastin's buses have been carrying out that inter-urban transport and city transport in our city for several months. I think it can be solved, especially because of the fact that the conditions have now been met, because the government and the town of Kragujevac are the owners of 54% of the capital, or all the "Autosaur" they have at the moment. Therefore, once again, you are asked to accept the amendment of counterpart Mihajlovic, because it will make it impossible for transporters to create problems in the future and it is impossible for them to archive it for the next two years. That, on the other hand, should be the Agency's obligation and who's the transport manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54251	Eight minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is by MP Zoran Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54252	Ladies and gentlemen, members from 22nd to 27th. The draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on transport in road transport are more precise and complementing the matter relating to: 1) the extralinic transport of passengers and goods on our roadways (what is immediately seen from these members are changes and additions which give significantly greater authority to local self-government units, especially when it comes to car taxi transport in the territory of a municipality or city, the appearance of a roof structure, i.e. the inscription, keeping the register of the roof marking and fixing the economic minimum price of the taxi; 2) inspection services in the exercise of inspection supervision of certain entities participating in the vanlinic transport. Also, the mentioned members are required to provide an accurate list of passengers participating in van line transport, a non-linear transport contract made between carriers. service providers and service users, out-of-line passenger service contract. The legislator cited several items as the main reasons for the introduction of these amendments and additions: the introduction of order on the traffic market in transport and monitoring, in particular, of cellular services; the prevention and timely prevention of illegal and wild transport operations, i.e. work on black, from which the most damage has the Republic of Serbia's budget; modernisation i.e. adapting certain provisions to emerging circumstances, as the Law on Transport in Road Transport was passed during the former SRJ in 1995, after which there are only a few cosmetic but not essential changes and modifications. The SRS has always supported the introduction of order and legality in all areas, as well as in the area of road transport, but not at all costs, or when some of the proposed provisions of the law complicate and make its application difficult in practice. For this very reason, counterpart Goran Mihajlovic also submitted an amendment to Article 22 paragraph 3 which reads: "The passenger transport contract and the passenger list of passengers must be kept for two years from the day of the transport". The proposal of counterpart Goran Mihajlovic is to delete the words "and the list of passengers" in the aforementioned position, so the new version would read: "A passenger transport contract must be kept for two years from the day of transport". The objective of the amendment is to avoid unnecessary administration, as it is absolutely unnecessary to keep a list of transported passengers for two years. Mr. Minister, if the entities covered by this bill were looking for some of his changes and corrections, they were looking for practical reasons, in order to eliminate the perceived shortcomings and regulations in the old version of the law, and not to introduce unnecessary administration and complicating where there is no real need for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54253	Three minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 26. Is the Proposer pleading?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54254	We accepted that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54255	I find that the proposing representative, Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, accepted the Committee's amendment to Article 26. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54256	Also, the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54257	Thank you. I find that the proposing representative also accepted the amendment to Article 27, which was submitted by the Committee on Transport and Connections of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54258	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the DOS in 2000 took revolutionary methods to the institutions of the system, then they probably thought they were the smartest, so they started to change some laws, without the obvious intention of bringing something good to the citizens of Serbia, which should be the purpose of every law and regulation of each area, and so the Law on Transport in Road Traffic was changed in 2001, 2005, 2006, so here we are today. Of course, that's not good. It is good to systematically resolve some area and not change the laws at any time, because the way the laws are changed now is that every time a cosmetic change is done, to talk about something serious being done in the state of Serbia and unfortunately nothing is serious anymore and nothing is responsible. When it comes to the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, what we're talking about today, it was obviously a good intention of the Ministry to make things more serious and make sense, but it's still incomplete. In some parts where the law might have really changed, we don't have any proposals to change, and on the other hand, in some parts where there was no real need for anything to change, we have amendments and additions to the law. This is also the case with Article 29, which speaks of the fact that the bus carrying out the transport for its own use must contain a list of workers and other persons certified by the vehicle owner or other evidence of the right of those workers. It is now complemented by three new articles of Article 39, and it is said that in a bus carrying out transport for its own needs there must be a numbered and cleanly filled list of persons to be transported, signed by the vehicle owner. The list of persons to be transported must be completed prior to the installation of the boarding vehicle at the starting point, and the persons to be transported must have identification documents. This is absolutely not controversial and we believe that it has been so far and that it has already been regulated through the other members of the law on whose amendments and additions we are discussing today. It is also not disputed that in the vehicle carrying out the transport for its own use there must be a working contract or confirmation that the driver is employed by the vehicle owner. These are some general attitudes that, in order to be right, in order to know who is being transported, where they are being transported, which is being transported, they must certainly be present in that vanlinic transport. Item 3 which is added, which states that the list of persons in the first article's position must be kept for two years from the day of transport, we in the SRS think it is too long and that it is enough to keep that list for six months. The objective of this amendment is to shorten the time needed to keep the list of passengers, especially given the fact that extra-line transports are very common, that they are used most for student excursions and use political parties to hold rallys in all parts of Serbia. It happens so often that while this one list of two years is standing, who knows how many lists change. That's why we think it's something that's unnecessary. You're saying you can't accept that because accepting the amendment would compromise the process of providing evidence in road traffic inspection. Minister, we do not see that accepting the amendments would in any way compromise inspection supervision, especially as the six-month period is quite sufficient and that inspection supervision is carried out and that, if necessary, some infringement procedure is possible, because it is due to the disregard of this member of the law, and that the procedure is completed etc. We simply believe that by accepting this amendment it would also help to legally regulate this part of the law and, ultimately, make the inspection work faster. What's a two-year inspection gonna do? If they can't finish it within six months, then everything loses its meaning. I'm such a surveillance that would last two years would absolutely lose its meaning. We are confident, Mr. Minister, that our arguments are entirely justified and that there is no reason for this amendment not to be accepted in this text. Basically nothing in the law changes. On the contrary, contributions, I repeat, both to the text of the law and to make inspection services work more efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54259	Six minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Both MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 31st amendment. The Government and the Transport and Liaison Committee have accepted the amendment, with a correction, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yes, National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54260	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, I will use the time of my parliamentary group. This is an amendment to the proposal of Article 33, and Article 33 refers to Article 44 of the applicable law. This article is very important because it speaks about all the powers of the road traffic inspector, and the proposal, and this amendment gives 10 points on how all the powers of the road traffic inspector are, so I'm just going to say one thing. For example, one authorisation is that it may order the removal of deficiencies identified in inspection control; it may propose to the Ministry to delete the order of driving when it finds that the carrier does not carry out line transport in accordance with the certified driving order; it may propose to the Ministry to abolish a solution establishing the fulfilment of the conditions of public transport of passengers and things if it finds that the carrier does not meet the prescribed conditions permanently; it may prohibit the transport carried out contrary to the law. So this is a very important member and in the already existing law, so this amendment might have tried to fix it a little bit. However, you have explained that you consider your proposal in a much more complete and comprehensive manner to be regulated by road traffic control. It may be the subject of conversation, whether this amendment better regulates that matter or your proposal, so it's not disputed. What is controversial is that we have extremely good laws, extremely good regulations. Here's this bill of law that makes this law a little bit better. So, when it comes to documents, we're doing great. However, when it comes to practice there are problems. So these laws, those regulations, those great laws are absolutely not applied. Why aren't they applied? Think straight away someone's not doing their job. Who doesn't do his job? He's not doing inspections right now, because the inspection is doing his job and he's really taking advantage of the powers he already has when several carriers, so people who deal in transport mostly with passengers, but also others, because whoever isn't doing what's right is absolutely jeopardizing road traffic, that the inspection is seriously doing their job would be different. I repeat again, when laws and regulations are at stake, everything is great, but there are some other cards that don't do their job. A car accident recently took place, a bus carrier engaged in the transport of road passengers. On that occasion, a passenger was killed. I'm saying it was recently, and I'm not going to mention the company on purpose because it's just one of the companies that is so irresponsible to their performance, so I'm not going to name them, but that accident has practically opened the topic of road traffic safety relations. On that occasion, the employees, primarily drivers, announced a strike and asked their company’s management to change something in the way they manage the company. First of all, they rightly complained that the law was not respected when it came to the time allowed for the driver to spend behind the driver. By law, the driver can drive the bus for 10 hours, and he has to have an obligation to take a 45-minute break, that's the law. Drivers are often stopped by police, traffic police, and they check and they often find that the driver spends 12-13 hours at the wheel. Then, of course, the police start the procedure, and then the punishment for such a violation is to withdraw the driver's license for three months, so I'm talking about people who live because they have a driver's license, and four criminal points are being entered into the chart. That's the punishment the police are conducting. Of course, the fine for this offence is 30,000 dinars, and in particular, in this company, drivers have a salary of 26-28 thousand dinars. There are over 10 people in this one company who have received such punishment. They wanted to point out one problem with their strike. Of course, they are not eager to do their work for 12-13 hours without interruptions, it is not a wish for them, but obviously it is the management, or the owner is doing different pressures, it is probably going to do so so far – it is doing as we tell you, if you do not, there are those who will work, etc., so that you understand why these people are entering these legal violations. This is where it should be shown at the part of this road traffic inspector, he's the one who has to regulate this. Let's not talk about us having other laws. For example, last year or before, we passed a law on mobbing, or banning abuse at work. It's also a law that would have to protect these employees and others. It seems to me sometimes that we adopt laws, but that they do not refer to the citizens of Serbia but rather to adopt them as being for the Martians. That's one thing. Secondly, I would use the presence of Minister Mrkonjic to point out again the problems citizens in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad have in the construction and construction of Corridor 10. I don't want to be absolutely boring and repeat these problems, but believe me, you citizens would love to have no problems, and then they wouldn't talk to me either. You just said in passing that you were getting ready on your way to Dimitrov City to check in if we let you go, we'll let you go, this session will be over very soon. Then please speak to the people who point to these problems on the spot. You will probably also talk to your builders or engineers, however, I would also ask that, in addition to likely visiting local self-government, you also receive representatives of this group of people who are damaged. They've sent a memo, though, to JP Roads, I think now it's taken Enterprise Corridor 10, so you can probably get to that document. I'll do it again, there's still a problem with expropriation. Certain owners of certain parcels and plots have received a rudely low offer for this land, it is a land of the second and third categories, it is gardens and orchards, where there was an offer of 350-450 dinars, with these people knowing, of course, that they were different offers for land in the Pcinj County. They're all in court now, not yet scheduled for hearings. Of course, there is dissatisfaction, and people rightly suspect that it is deliberately being stopped, so I would ask you to discuss this problem with them. The second is that it's already being performed there, so-called. Deep-sea mining. You as a builder know what that means. Because there is a village right next to the border crossing and that local community is called the Gradinje border crossing. Here you have 30-40 households, so houses, gardens, etc. Problems have arisen, cracks in houses, threatens to bring down some houses, and owners rightly wonder who will handle the recovery of these facilities, for they should live there. Also, you can intervene there so that they will be warned on time when it will be mined because there is a danger of injury. Besides, in that paper that was sent to JP Roads there are more details, I wouldn't get into it now, and I ask you to ask local self-government to arrange a meeting with these people when you get to Dimitrovgrad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54261	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Mrkonjic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54262	I thank Mrs. Donkey. I wasn't joking with you. I told you last week that I'd be in Dimitrov City this week. Since last night, everyone's there, teams of experts, and at two o'clock, now I've moved a little bit, since I didn't think I'd have any of these amendments today, I asked everyone to be on the spot at two o'clock. So I'm going to visit all the families, all the people. I read that text you're talking about, and the tolls know what to do. I believe this will finally be resolved today. I thank you and it is a good interaction between the MPs and the minister. Veljo, listen to what I'm saying here. Can you let me go now to get to two there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54263	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54264	You will allow me, Madam Vice President, to use the minister's presence for just one question, since I have asked him in the form of a parliamentary question, and I have not received an answer. It's about the most complicated part of Corridor 10 through the Gredile ravine. I'm from Leskovci. You know we have a political consensus on Corridor 10. We had a series of meetings with you, with Minister Dulic and your associates. Even criminal charges have been filed against certain ministries and public enterprises. I am simply interested - as long as it has arrived with the ideas made by the CIP and will this idea project be accepted as the main project, because this is what the European Bank for Investments is asking you to do? The town of Leskovac did not do a spatial plan precisely because we do not have the correct answer from your ministry, from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, whether the CIP project has been accepted, and if accepted, that is exactly what we are asking of you, and that is that the loop that passes through the Gredile ravine is just leading to the Predejana varsity. That's it, I just want an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54265	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54266	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. It seems to me that last time I mentioned it, an idea project that was done by the Traffic Institute or anyone, is currently on the review committee at the Ministry of Urban Affairs. I'll hurry. I've already intervened twice to get it done as soon as possible. When this is over, at the same time, we're going to react as you suggest. Please calm people down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54267	Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54268	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here, because of the obligation, you heard, Mr. Minister had to leave, but I will remind you all of the earlier original law which did not have this name, but which regulated the transportation of passengers to our country back in 2005, when they were indeed by the MPs and how a heated reaction due to the fact that the Republic Inspector, who controls road transport, has powers that are directly under the authority of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, then, and this was also taken over after 2010 by this new law whose amendments and additions today are being considered, for the first time since the world and centuries in Serbia have been introduced that a republican traffic inspector can enter a bus, into some means of transport and legislate travellers. Now explain to me, since you are in a hurry and chasing to enter the EU, against whose entry Serbia is explicitly SRS, where you saw it, and boast, at least through these assembly committees you can go to some meetings all the time, etc., in which country did you see a traffic inspector enter some means of transport and legitimize passengers? First, since you stayed as co-workers of the minister, that's what we Serbian radicals had in mind six years ago. Article 39. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia made it clear that every citizen of Serbia and foreigners who, with normal legitimate documents, enter the Republic of Serbia is allowed, i.e. no one should restrict freedom of movement. As citizens are being legitimateized, it is very well known and it is strict jurisdiction under the second Law on Personal Idmins of the MUP, however, which we now have some cases, and we as members of the Defence and Security Committee and MPs are being reported by some citizens who experience usurpation from members of the MUP, which are controversial cases, and there are also some you can think of in downtown Belgrade, in the square of the Republic or elsewhere, where even the gendarmes stop quite normal people, young people, girl or anyone else – let me legitimize you. There's no need for that either, especially because of the fact that the identity of the person is determined only when it's suspicious and when it's moving. As everything goes wrong in this country, criminals, tycoons, thieves, various members of the criminal structures can move freely, go wherever they want, and the common people now need to experience the entry of the Republic Transport Minister in charge of inspection supervision and say – please give me your ID cards. It's a simple job for the police under certain circumstances and you know very well that it's an obligation at every border crossing. This now looks to me like you've taken over some of these spy and various other agencies operating in Serbia or certain BIA members, who thus entered a line transport in Belgrade several years ago and arrested Dr Radovan Karadzic. Or it seems to me that this scandal, this disgrace and shame for the state of Serbia and for the entire patriotic people, which took place almost a month ago, when Mr Bozidar Vucurovic at the border crossing of Mali Zvornik was arrested on the Croatian-Statistic pursuit, and you did it blindly. I mean, not you, but those who are representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and first of all Boris Tadic, who agrees with such humiliations by Serbia. Believe that our countrymen in Republika Srpska are very bitter. If you wanted to take a look at it, I am now talking to you who are MPs of the ruling structures, here you receive the representatives of the Republika Srpska Parliament and maintain these contacts, you may know that you have been asking a little bit of questions or that you have looked at various Internet portals or on some social networks, that there everyone who is a member of the Serbian people is bitter about what you did with Mr. Vucurevic. To return to the final exhibition on the amendment of Master Dejan Mirovic. He asked that point 5) be deleted from the amendment and addition of this article, not only because of that, but indeed this explanation given has nothing to do with our intensity as the SRS and its intention. Now the conclusion is that we encourage someone who is not regulated in transport to continue to do so. No, we're just commenting that it's not the job of a republican inspector, it's the other authorities, members of the MUP, because the Ministry of the Interior, the traffic police, registers the vehicle, issues the tables, prescribes what the tables look like, etc. And now, please, in some cases where it is suspected that this carrier cannot carry out any further transport, a republican inspector appears and he takes away the tables, he legitizes, he takes the IDs. It's just not his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54269	Six minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word is from Ambassador Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54270	Just a short one more thing, concerning this amendment by counterpart Dejan Mirovic. My colleague Natasa Jovanovic explained nicely everything he asked for with the amendment and just one more thing to add. You're acting exactly the opposite of what practice shows and what happens in practice. It's the easiest thing to take away a license plate, take away a license, order him to park a car somewhere along the road, but that's not the problem. In that case, you will also prescribe punishment. We've seen that punishment can be prescribed on the spot by the inspector, but have you solved the problem? Personally, I believe that under the conditions of the current economic crisis, when our carriers are barely putting an end to the end, they may not be able to close the financial structure of their businesses, they may not be able to earn the most basic things, not just pay all these penalties provided for by this law. That is why it is requested by this amendment, and I personally think it is more practical for the carrier in some cases to give a certain deadline within which it must remove the deficiencies observed by the inspector, and for that time let it work, not that the vehicle is standing, because there is no greater damage and there is no greater loss for each carrier than when the vehicle is standing. As the wheels turn, while something is working, he has some chance of making some money, but as soon as his license is taken away, as soon as the vehicle stops, it practically sinks into the dubiosis and loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54271	Used a minute and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President-in-Office and absent Mr. Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted a total of nine amendments to this law, eight of which have been adopted, which says first of all that we have taken seriously this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Road Traffic and that we have indeed worked honestly around it to contribute to the qualitative improvement of the law. So this is the only amendment that hasn't been accepted. I suppose the minister was led to accept the amendment of the Committee that is similar and certainly improved this article in 33 where we wanted to listen and help taxi drivers who expressed a serious desire and intention, proposing that we submit such an amendment, to introduce a more serious order and more serious control in this service that is very important in the lives of all citizens. We know what the problems with inspection services are, we know how much they struggle to really pay off their hard work through paying taxes to the state, to be citizens of the front row, and certainly they wanted this amendment to resolve their status in a transparent manner, because we know how much the grey zone makes it harder to operate this kind of service. I hope that by adopting the other amendments, the amendment of the Committee, you have certainly made sure that this service, that you make the taxi drivers of this country a much better and easier work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54273	Anyone else want a word? On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Transport and Connection Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54274	Mrs. Komic, how much time do we have as a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54275	The parliamentary group's time is 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54276	Okay. With this amendment, we wanted to point out and draw attention to the promoter that the weak vision will be of this law because if the law contains only tax-listed good wishes or respects the interests of only some, then we will not benefit from that law. I need to draw attention to the small benefit of citizens in some municipalities where units of local self-government trust a certain kind of public transport to privates, unless they covered the entire territory with their driving order and their lines, and then we have a situation where the competition is that they report the line, and when they have to work, after 15 days they say they are not worth driving to that and that remote village because there are one or five passengers. Then we have villages that lose transportation daily, and let villages lose transportation absolutely, if I may say so. Some villages had once in a week's transport, and now they don't even have that ride anymore. The question arises whether this law should resolve this social function that one must perform? We don't expect a car carrier to solve all social problems, but someone who trusts him with a job has to give him a premonition of taking a proper risk. This was the case before when social enterprises were involved in this business, and even the most remote villages had their own transportation. Today the private is interested only in profit, profit, nothing more. He's not carrying any social responsibility. Social responsibility belongs to one who trusts doing these jobs to units of local self-government, and what we can have in local self-government units is clear to you. When it's possible to buy a councilman, when it's possible to buy a place, to hire whoever he wants, etc., then it's no wonder that a good number of villages that are 20 or 30 kilometers from the municipality place have no transport, and then when you look at this bill and you see some solutions, then you can see that the van can't even go there in an organized system. Let me go back to Article 35 now. The Serbian Radical Party has requested that item 2 be deleted in the new article 44g. Here you wrote that the person of the 1st article's position, it is the only place in the law where a position begins, and that person from the 1st position of this member is also the company and all that, but to skip that, to put it on the burden of Vuk Karadzic, says – those persons are obliged to carry out the inspection measures. Why is this particularly potent? Why is this in Article 44g, when it already exists in Article 44a and Article 44? "A smooth exercise of inspection supervision and without delay to allow for the required documentation and data, etc." Where are the inspection measures? They are in Articles 44 and 44a. Now look at what it looks like in our legal system when such gymnastics is being created, where someone has come up with a way to jump something, so let's throw in everything and everything. Article 44 begins with the words that the Republic road traffic inspector has rights and responsibilities. Well, he's not a physical person to have rights and responsibilities, he can only have some authority. He is authorized, and from the words "authority" in the authorised official, the entire system of rights and duties arises. And then you move on, and in article 44a, you say that in the exercise of inspection supervision, the Republic road traffic inspector is required. He's not obliged. He's authorized. He doesn't owe the bank, he doesn't owe the woman, he doesn't owe anyone, he's authorized to take over. When he, as an authorized official for inspection supervision, does something, it gets attributes to the state's work. You say "he owes" here and you add the words "he's authorized". These are all inspection measures. However, the required inspection measures have some of their own order. There's a real complaint, you know? You can't say it then. He's bound to do it without delay. The measures in which this must be done without delay are only those which are in the function of removing life, health, safety, but this is not about traffic police, this is about a road traffic inspector who controls papers, controls the status of a person who deals with this business and whether or not they adhere to the minimum prescribed in respect of the status of those persons, not traffic signs, etc. I'm really surprised. For example, in Article 44a, which is related to Article 44g, you have the point of point 6 which says - temporarily withdraws the vehicle used to carry out the offence. There are some violations here that can be done without a vehicle, you know? You only have one place here to say the detachment measure, but that's already the extent of the misdemeanor procedure, and this is about temporary confiscation as an inspection measure. It's two different things, so, as it's written here, so even if you consider this from G-- you have to carry out inspection measures, then he doesn't need a complaint. Don't write a complaint, that's the message. Then it's possible, according to Articles 48, 49 and 50, where there are commercial crimes and violations, then it's possible, let's say, if you have a flag on the truck's cab, where a commercial for your company or a stamp of your firm, someone takes your truck, according to this formulation, is written here. That's terrible. Why are these rules being made? It's even scarier for the AP to be entrusted with conducting inspection, and I don't know how you came up with that. I agree that this job, as a trusted state business, has been given to units of local self-government, I agree. It's got some reason. Now you're building some new government, some new ministries. It's a little bit small for me to have what he has, but to give him some more things. It's just that there's a law that doesn't represent the whole, and there's a law that's a sign or a flow boiler, but there's also a law where there's some gray zones, where you can run and the road traffic inspector finish the job. All by law, and basically, to cover up some monopoly. Since we often have these circuses, it's for the public to have a little talk. If you would take the bus from Vranja to Belgrade, in private, to rent it, you would have to give about 500 euros in dinar equivalent. Then, 50 passengers, to provide them with 10 sandwiches, to provide them with sour water, beer, and so 50,000 people to gather you need a thousand buses. Make it an average price of 400 euros, that's 400,000 euros. Someone has given 400,000 euros that the buses contain poor opponents of authorities, those who do not love the EU, but because of the sandwich, they will scandal the EU's NATO pact. In this country, someone doesn't control who paid for it. Does Beko, do Miskovic, do Cane Sobotić, do Gilas, do you, do you, do you, do you know? Oh, come all the poor, there's nothing to eat them for. Nothing. It's called - victims of transition. They have come to support one who will come a step ahead of Boris Tadic in the EU. Now we all need to strike with our brains. So we turn off the brain and take it for granted. And our road traffic inspectors have a provision that they can control. Let's see when you can control that. Now I have introduced this topic a little bit, so that each of us can think – who is going to throw 400,000 euros? Only one who wants to influence power, his own power, so he doesn't pay taxes he owes to the state. Mrs. Komic, I hope you will inform Mr. Mrkonjic about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54277	The used time of the parliamentary group is nine minutes. To Article 36. The amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54278	This proposal of Article 36 relating to Article 45 of the basic law is indeed absolutely unnecessary and has a negative impact on the text of the law. I am convinced that the minister is here to accept this amendment after this explanation. I hope you gentlemen recommend that. For the public, what the proposed article 45 says, and what the amendment of the SRS says. The proposal says - a Republic road traffic inspector may wear an official suit during the course of inspection. That earlier text you're changing said you had to wear an official suit. We also say - a republican road traffic inspector must wear an official suit when performing inspection tasks, if there is a prescribed type of uniform for these jobs. Indeed, we do not understand and this must be a mistake, when you were changing this article 45, that something well done and well done, where it is said that the inspector must wear a uniform, you say – can. You could have said you were erasing article 45 and not predicting the inspectors wearing uniforms, that would have been your attitude and that might have been accepted. You know, you have to make sure that every legal norm has to be concise, precise, clear, and that it can't leave an opportunity for any abuse. In principle, words must be avoided - that something can or cannot. The law must define whether something is or is not. Either you define that Republic road traffic inspectors wear uniforms or you define them not to wear them. If they're wearing them, they all have to wear them. That is the essence and purpose of our amendment. We said in a good way that if there's a uniform for certain jobs, then the uniform has to be worn. You said you couldn't accept the amendment, because accepting the amendment would endanger the inspection procedure in road traffic. It's the opposite. If you do not accept the amendment and if there is no provision left that a Republic road traffic inspector may wear a uniform, which means he does not have to, then it endangers the duties of these officials, or road traffic inspectorate. Then anyone can appear to introduce themselves as an inspector. Unfortunately, you see what is happening and how different people are being falsely represented, how even uniforms are being misused and official cards of any kind, let alone, even if you say so – can and does not have to. We are truly confident that you will recommend Mr. Mrkonjic, and I see you nod your head, he would surely accept it and accept it, because this absolutely improves the text of the law. To make myself even more convincing, I'm going to illustrate one example, which has been current these days. Let's say, if you have and if we have any reports from some hospital, from some clinic, you know, there are severe car accidents, murders, unfortunately, tragic things, then in the media, a doctor in a white coat is talking. A doctor can't talk to a doctor at work dressed in his own private uniform, because the law clearly says that a doctor has to be in uniform. These days we have had, and it seems only at some private clinics, which are already being placed for various reasons under suspicion, so you have a doctor who talks about the health condition of Tomislav Nikolic, who was in a jacket. This doctor, yesterday we hear, is a doctor who is employed in the House of Zemun, but we couldn't identify him, I mean the citizens of Serbia, because as a doctor he spoke in his private jacket, in some jacket.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54279	Four minutes have been used by the MPs' group. MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54280	Madam Chairman, I think you have violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27. We came here for a serious debate, to discuss a subject that is very serious for Serbia. We listen here to stories about jackets, sandwiches, and you keep your mouth shut and your mouth shut and you don't give a shit. Why are you sitting here, Mrs. Comic? What's your role in this session? We're listening here about some buses, about Euros, about jackets, about doctors, about health homes. What's this about? I want to talk to you about a more serious subject that I've come here on, about the amendments we've made with a lot of effort, which have been accepted and what life means to this country. We here now listen to stories that are nebulose. You're reading something and you're acting crazy. It has never been, Mrs. Comic, since this parliament exists, that it can speak for itself. Talk about things like that, it's out of your mind. I remind you most seriously, and I demand that it be voted that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and that we plead in the day of voting on your violation of the Rules of Procedure. You here for days, both yesterday and today, harassing that we listen here to individuals about stories, jackets, doctors, uniforms, health homes, etc. What's this about? Who feeds, eats, etc.? Please, what does that look like? It's a shame, talking about things like this in parliament in this way, cynically. It's a shame and a shame. It's the biggest shame I've had in years since I entered parliament, here, for almost 20 years. (President: Two minutes. I didn’t experience any more shame and shame, that a group of people are getting so embarrassed and humiliated that it’s beneath all human dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54281	Thank you. There's no damage to article 27. If you had listened carefully, as I have listened, and if you had stayed to listen to the explanation, then you would not have committed an offence that implies demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly. National MP Velimir Ilic said what he wanted to say, and he violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and then left the hall, refusing to listen to the explanation. It is inadmissible behavior, but only if the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were strictly respected. I listened carefully to the statements of the Messengers of the people and that the Messenger of the people was Velimir Ilic in the hall and that he felt that others had the same rights as he did, then he could hear, and the MPs who said to check whether I listened carefully. National MP Verica Radeta has brought about an explanation of the amendment to the member, an example of the appearance and conduct of the official and the uniform of the official. Any attempt by me to forbid her to set an example she would treat as a violation of freedom of speech. She tried and tried not to violate the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and set an example of an official who is represented as an official or not representing himself, or is recognised or not recognized as a person in the function of her duty, and that it is a medical worker, in her case, a doctor. National MP Zoran Krasic set an example in the context of the interpretation of the amendments, saying about the need to check it, and whether it is being checked or not, who and in any way, as a republican traffic inspector, can, or cannot, work or not to check the lists and any necessary documentation in each individual bus that is moving on highways or regional roads during any type of contract commissioned by an orderer for extra-line transport. National MP Zoran Krasic also cited examples in his vanlinic transport case, trying not to violate any other member of the Rules of Procedure. Any attempt by me to forbid him to give an example he would interpret as a violation of the interpretation of freedom of speech. As a personal insult, and as a demeanor by MP Velimir Ilic, I appreciate the procedure to seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure and then to leave the hall in which other MPs patiently and in a democratic and toleranceal atmosphere listen, as examples of MPs who explain the amendments, as well as the content of the MP Velimir Ilic, trying to ban others from what he believes is allowed. I leave everyone willing to appreciate who and what should be a shame in this congregation. Anyone who tries to break any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by me, as chairman, will be warned, will be reminded of the need to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, if he is deaf, he will also be warned, with a reminder that I am the last person who likes to impose criminal measures. For the shame and for everything else that the Messenger Velimir Ilic allows himself, I am not in charge. Please don't throw it away. Of course, in the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Velimir Ilic. It was a violation of article 27 and the qualifications of the offended who spoke of me personally. If there was a possibility or my wish to hand over a session of colleagues to Vice-President Nikola Novakovic, then I would have a lot of right to ask or a word in the debate in particular and using amendments as an object, I also give examples of which would include a MP who is not present in the hall at the moment or to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But he who is taught by his grandmother learns, and he who is not taught by his grandmother will not be taught. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54282	Thank you, Mrs. Komic, for really showing that you listen very carefully to the MPs. Mr Velimir Ilic said that today's debate, what we were saying first and foremost, was that of my colleague Krasic and I, that it was the biggest disgrace and cynicism in this House. I have to say, I suppose Mr. Ilic is listening somewhere, but it doesn't matter, I'm saying this first of all for the public, the position of the SRS is that the biggest disgrace of this House is that the DS allowed to sit in this House something called a parliamentary group, which is actually mandates stolen from the SRS. The greatest cynicism is that Velimir Ilic, about 20 days ago, said it was unacceptable and undemocratic that in the Kingdom of the Assembly the councils of the party who did not participate in the elections were sitting. Indeed, he was right there, but it is a cynicism that in a coalition with Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandra Vukic, and a party that also failed to participate in the elections in 2008, and thanks to the regime of Boris Tadic today, there is a parliamentary group in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54283	National MP Veroljub Arsic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, if you tell anyone that he's lazy, it can be a character when he's lazy. I'd be offended personally, I don't know if you'd be offended if someone said that to you. Since the DS is being accused here by the SRS, it is quite surprising to me, because the SRS and DS views on the hunger and thirst strike of Mr Tomislav Nikolic fully coincide. You're all allies here, and you can't deny it at all. There used to be a saying in the people, running like a devil from a cross. Today there is a new one in the people, running like a radical of choice. That seems to be a problem for you. And if some parties participated in the elections, so let's discuss these elections and measure ourselves, let's stand on the line and see who's strong and how much trust there is amongst the citizens, and not that what we've gained some trust to discuss even though we don't have it anymore today and we pretend that we have some legitimacy and legality. The new elections are the ones that will show everyone's results, and us as opposition and those who are in power today. I totally understand why they fight against elections, they're in power, but I don't understand one opposition party why they don't fight to be elections. I guess that's the goal of every opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54285	People's MP, you've been told to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you've been obliged to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who's been injured and to explain it. Please do it next time, anyway, when you're looking for a word about hurting the Rules of Procedure. With the full understanding that an MP can distract it from his mind, I repeat it once more. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54286	The Serbian Radical Party is always ready for the elections and the SRS has never had a problem with going to the polls, but it is interesting that those advancers who strike in April to see the elections in December or possibly in January. It is a topic that is otherwise current these days, which has been ridiculed by all the people in public life and by all the citizens of Serbia that we have been in contact with. Of course, Tomislav Nikolic, what he's doing is farce, it's also obvious to everyone, it's obvious that he doesn't strike hunger or thirst. If he lets himself be fed through a tube instead of a spoon, by an infusion, what else can we say: a lazy man will not like normal people to eat and drink water. There is something else I want to say, SNS and DS views are identical, and they also speak of Nikolic and Vukic publicly. They say they have nothing against DS and Boris Tadic's policies, but they only have one problem. Tadic is very slow to realise the ideas that the EU imposes on Serbia and the advances are ready to do so much faster. So they are ready to move much faster than Tadic's arrest Mladic, ready to recognise a false state of Kosovo much faster than Tadic, ready to be much faster than Tadic and much more fired by employees, are ready to promise much faster than Tadic the prices of communals, food, etc. So Nikolic says they are ready to join the EU much faster than Tadic. Your attitudes are not different and they are identical and it is devastating for the citizens of Serbia. Here's just one more sentence, and that's what we're talking about persistently, that DS and SNS are actually two sides of the same European medal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54287	National MP Veroljub Arsic, you are again registered. You cannot get the right to replica based on the mention of a party or qualifications that an MP from one parliamentary group gives about a political party belonging to another parliamentary group. You should be a representative of the parliamentary group for that, which in this case you are not. If you were directly mentioned in the presentation of the Verse of Radeta, the People's MPs, then you'd have a basis for getting a replica. I'm guessing she wasn't talking to you directly. You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54288	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is again a violation of reputation and dignity, as well as a misreading of what I said and misreading SNS views. I don't know what this is all about, but I do know that there aren't a lot of touch points in the way the program is being implemented because our programme is also the reason for calling an early parliamentary election. Why wait another year? Because if the elections are in May when they're due in June, there won't be a new government until September. Is it gonna take another billion euros to borrow the state? Is there another factory to close? Is there anyone else who needs to be out of a job? Does anyone else need to go abroad, get out of this country with their heads? You don't fit the election. You don't have a program anymore, you're lost. Your struggle has come down to the fight against the SNS which is the opposition, not the government, the loss of identity completely. You are not talking about laws, amendments, you are talking about Tomislav Nikolic, who is not here to answer you. First of all, it's cowardly. You're talking about a man who's not here, you're talking about people who aren't even MPs, that they can answer you. That's the easiest way. We can, yesterday you talked about it, today you want to use again, every moment you use, and look where you are. You don't have 120,000 people here, the other day. It tells you what the situation in the state is, you can't see it, you're challenging it, you're sending some colleagues to spy on us, was it really that much? Well, we saw it. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54289	You did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured again. I warn you now that if you get a word on the basis of what you want to talk about injure the Rules of Procedure, you are bound by the same member to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured or to use the mechanisms that opposition colleagues and the ruling majority occasionally use, mentioning each other. It is, in fact, the basis for replication in certain cases when it is obvious that MPs want to exchange some views. This way I can't give you an explanation, except to remind you and the public you're talking to, not just to those of us sitting in the hall, that there are clearly prescribed deadlines in the procedure of what happens to the establishment of the Assembly, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, following the announcement of the final results of the elections. There's no arbitraryness. The deadlines are 30 plus 30 days and it's legally prescribed. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54290	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to a political party, then, of course, a serious stance is considered primarily the president and vice president of a party. Now that you have a case that some members of that party don't know what their officials are saying, so they're saying something else, that's certainly the problem with that party. What exactly was I going to say? The fact that Tomislav Nikolic does not want elections right away but wants Serbia to get candidate status for EU accession, so when it will be and whether it will be who knows, and the team is more than simply amazing why it has already been lying and waiting, he does not plan to wait for anyone to know how many months until the election is called and will feed on the infusion. Of course, it's a lazy thing. The SRS is ready for the election always. The SRS has a political programme that carries out consistently and we are known for it in Serbia, and it is recognised to us by the most serious political opponents, that what we claimed 20 years ago is today, and some who couldn't do it that long have gone away and the biggest problem is that they stayed in the Assembly, although they didn't belong there. As for the political party's programme, the Progressive Party, it is already widely known in Serbia that the advances do not have a programme, that they have something Montgomery wrote for 7,000 euros, he did not read, of course, English does not know, so he does not know what the programme says.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54291	The 36th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54292	Mrs. Comic, I wanted to talk about the amendment, because I have great experience, and when everyone's fighting, you give me a warning, so just in case I talk about the amendment, because I have a bad experience. I'm saying this preventively. I have to mildly reprimand you for this debate today, Mrs. Comic, and I'm going to tell you all about the amendment later, because it's impossible for a DS member to go on the line with a DS member. That's forbidden according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54293	It's not. I would ask you to leave the meeting and the contents of the Rules of Procedure to the chairman. The Republic is given by the chairman. The chairman has a discretionary right to have a replica given. It can be given on the grounds that, by violating other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, a political party is mentioned, when the replica has the obvious right of the president or representative of the parliamentary group. However, the replica can be exchanged between anyone, and at least two MPs, on any subject that the chairman considers not to be offensive, but that it requires further clarification, so that it may take place between members of the same parliamentary group and these cases. I'm not counting on you this time, but I'm asking you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54294	It wasn't that within the same parliamentary group they were replicating each other, it wasn't. The Wolf can't go on the line with Brank, because they're the same MP group and they belong to the same stranger. You do not read the site of the National Assembly, the fugitive concerned, he is, by your site, a member of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54295	The National Assembly site is our site, all of us 250. I'm asking you again about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54296	Okay, this is what I convinced you, now let's move on. What were we looking for with this amendment? With this amendment, we asked, Mrs. Komic, that the criminal penalties, i.e. the fine for the economic offense be adjusted to some criteria. So, in 2006, it was decided that in Article 48, the penalty for the economic offense from that member would be 100-400 thousand dinars for legal persons, etc. Please, it's the end of 2006. It's impossible that from 2006 to today we had an inflation of 300 percent. Why do I say it's impossible? When you take 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, official price growth data to a little bit, that's still our inflation criterion, you'll see that you can't get to 300 percent. This government as a promoter found that it happened 300 percent. Since 100-400 thousand were scheduled there, the government has now said in a new bill, the fine is now 300,000 to a million dinars. So, from 300,000 to a million dinars, there's a fine for a commercial offense, and I have to turn one side still, so there are 17 cases or 17 parts of a commercial offense. We've asked for an amendment to reduce this and make the fine a range of 200-500 thousand dinars. What are we calling ourselves? We are calling for official data from state authorities, that simple inflation was not so much, that in these four years, the amount involved was not so bad. The government says they prefer it this way, so they can take it and finish the job and there won't be any problems. However, I must draw attention, Mrs Comic, to one thing, we had a law yesterday on amendments and amendments to the Financial Lising Act. In that law, we got a definition of the simulated business of financial lysing. So when something is a classic simulation, to be so folk – the cabbage is watching, the meat is coming out. That's the variant. Mrs. Komic, let me remind you, and in football there is something similar, when the centrifugal falls into the 16th, and as if he didn't hit him, but he simulates thepenal, he gets punishment, yellow card, red card, etc. When a football club sets up a game, if they catch him, he's grounded, it's in Italy, you take points, Juventus goes to another league, etc. We live in a time of great simulations today. It simulates something, and it hides something else. We need to be careful, since it's a time of fraud from the point of view of these fines, because it might seem to the inspector at first glance that someone committed a business offense, so if he gets this kind of punishment, in some of the young people who deal with this business, it could be the closure of the firm, absolutely. I propose and call on you, Mr. Mrkonjic and those in the government legislation, that it is impossible that inflation was 300%, so you said that the penalties are increasing by inflation, so that today these penalties would correspond to what was as an initial idea when commercial offences were prescribed and inflation was monitored. I can understand that. It's a legitimate way of increasing fines. There's no excuse here to increase the sentence. I'm not getting into this weight of these economic offenses right now. Why? The judge who works will have to apply the principle of individualization and, on the basis of that, assess whether to go with a minimum, with a maximum etc. This way when it is cut off, so it's said, 300 percent we raise everything, then it gets the impression that practically the state thinks that, by means of financial penalties from economic crimes, it needs to earn, to achieve extrazarada. I find that unacceptable. I urge all MPs in all of our regulations that increase it, we have that in mind. It's justified if the increase follows inflation, and if there's much more going on than that inflation, then I can as some man who's a little bit of an understanding in the economy say, you're counting on two years from now that this law won't change in the act of offense and economic crime, so you've already calculated future inflation. It was never a criterion when these changes and these events are being made. By the way, as far as those uniforms are concerned, I have to distract you. In many situations today, when we meet and a man with a uniform shows up, we ask if it's really a uniform, if it's a really authorised official with a uniform, or maybe a man jumped up to fleas, provided it, so let's do some part-time work. So I think the tendency is that all these fines on the spot are thrown out of the legal system, that it's simply thrown out of the legal system, because there's no doubt, with all the risks that someone is now in that place, may never be found again, etc. It's just a tendency to throw punishment on the spot. One more thing. Now let me tell you a secret. There's no secret. You were traveling abroad, and you saw some cities save a taxi ride. In some cities, there is a display in the back of the driver’s license to drive for as long as it can. It means how many hours he can take until his hours are over, in accordance with the regulations governing traffic safety on the roads. No more fingers up, so stop the cab. No one in Paris will stop you. Then tag, red light taken. Green light free, I'll get the passenger. White light, off. Come on, now that we're on our way to Europe. Don't let me teach you European standards. Don't let me teach you. It's the elemental things that need to be done with us. It's just one of those ideas. I still have a lot of ideas, but I've got a little bit of Gordan on my mind, so I'm gonna stop on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54297	Six minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Two minutes of amendment, two minutes of mutual information. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 37. This amendment is of the opinion that the Legislative Committee is in accordance with the Constitution and with the legal system. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to this article 37th, and counterpart Zoran Krasic made the essence of all of our proposals in his comment. We suggest that it be reduced, in fact, to reduce the fine from 30,000 to 20,000, or 100,000 to 50,000. So we think and suggest that in this situation in which the state is present and where the people who are related to this law are, that this is a real proposal. Since the minister isn't here, we probably can't even influence those comments. I only have the next comment. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that, in the course of its work on the draft law, it has been assessed that fines etc. have been threatened. We believe that those evaluators are probably European emissaries who, in such a flat-rate manner, have only commented on this whole law and given you a moment or a sign, you can, play this law, it is a good EU, and how it will be for our people and for traffic participants it is very critical. Seventeen categories of penalties in this member we are processing have and, among other things, there are penalties provided for from six months to three years, meaning, if they are fulfilled or if all those arrows are crossed, the penalties provided for in this law. The important thing of every law is, of course, the criminal provisions, which are provided for in this law. However, if the criminal provisions of your laws are analysed, it turns out that they are the most passed on account of criminal provisions. As for these criminal provisions, they aim to fill the budget. So you're not gonna fill the budget with criminal provisions. We from the SRS daily and in every comment we give you. You need to open new jobs. You have to hire. You have to run the industry, you have to run the agriculture, you have to run all the resources, you have to run and traffic, and you have to extract that extra or that profit or that income or that budget that will be real and that will be able to meet all the needs and all the budget users.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54299	A minute and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The 38th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 38th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54300	I'm sorry, time left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54301	Sixteen minutes is available.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54302	Thank you very much. In fact, Article 38 represents an amendment to Article 49 of the basic law. This member may have had to change, but in a different way. It's a 150-dollar fine. 1,000 to 600,000 dinars are too high from the SRS, and we have suggested that the fine for these violations be between 100,000 and 300,000 dinars. It is more appropriate in view of the economic situation in the country and must not be allowed to do so precisely because of the poor economic situation of the states, among other things, and in this way by robbing citizens or businesses for a possible violation. Of course, we, the Serbian Radicals, should be responsible for every offense committed. Not this way. There must be some measure and there must be something that would really be applicable. You're not going to let some kind of offence put some company out of business because you've provided him with such high fines. What's the next problem? The problem is the range. The range between 150,000 and 600,000 is four times. Such large ranges in the measurement of the intended penalties usually lead to abuse or to non-malignancy and to say, can lead to abuse. If you leave a judge with the possibility of punishing someone for the same crime with 150,000 and the other with 600,000 dinars, what can they do? Of course, he could be a bribed judge, share that difference with whoever he's supposed to punish and get that minimum sentence and have half of this most fine left, I'm banalizing, but unfortunately we know that's what's going on. That is why the laws should be disabled, because the essence of the fight against corruption and crime are also good laws, is the determined fight of the state against corruption and crime, and clearly there is no such thing in this regime. The laws you are proposing and the laws that are being adopted in this House only open up even more opportunities for abuse. Why did I say at first that Article 49 was to be changed in another way? It was not necessary to touch the penalties that were in the existing law, the amount of penalties and the relationship between the highest and lowest penalties. This article was to be divided into several members. You here have the same punishment, the same range of penalties for 48 different offences, and those violations that are incompatible with each other. Therefore, the same penalty will punish someone carrying out transport to vehicles which do not meet the conditions laid down in the traffic safety rules on roads or rules on the standards for certain types of vehicles. Someone who does not respect this member will be punished for failing to comply with the conditions prescribed by the Traffic Safety Act question his life and the lives of some other people. He can, if he drives a technically faulty vehicle, endanger traffic safety, in such a way as to end it tragically and sometimes with a larger number of victims. The law must certainly be rigorous. On the other hand, you have in the same member and with the same intended penalties, for example, that someone who carries out public transport of passengers and things will also be punished, and there is no parking space provided for all vehicles carried out by transport. Allow me, this really can't be compared. Of course, there has to be a parking space and, of course, the transporter must have secured that parking space, but in the end, that carrier can let the passengers out, in the van line, especially, get out to some place where he drove them, and he's going somewhere else to look for a parking lot, so he's going to park on some allowed space anyway. Because the bus is literally impossible to park in an unauthorized area, even if someone wanted to break this standard. I suppose you understand that it's really incompatible and unacceptable. For example, I found one of the most drastic and mildest examples, and in these 48 you have as many examples as you want, which could be compared in this way. That's why we think this should have been dismembered, that this Article 49 has, say, three, four, maybe five groups, so to say, for one group of violations is a fine of 100,000 dinars, for the second group of violations of 200, for the third of 300, and then you could have made up to 600 thousand dinars for these most drastic ones. This isn't good, and that's why we thought we'd at least suggest that there be fewer penalties and a smaller range, and these most drastic traffic safety threats were regulated by the Traffic Safety Act. They're meant to be crimes there, and that's good, but it's not good to have the same crime, in this law, and in that law, a crime. In this law, he gets no more than 600,000 fines under your proposal, and in that law, he gets a prison sentence. So, the services that prepare these laws to the government and the government representatives would have to consult a little bit more laws that are already in force, so when others are proposed to see a little bit of what is written in and out there, and then it all comes down to the essence of which the SRS is principled, which is that there has to be a criminal code with codified all criminal acts. There must be a law on violations with codified all violations. Then such laws would be freed from both offenses and crimes. This law would deal with the profession, and there would be a codified criminal code or law on violations, and then the judge would only be nice on the basis of the report, which would be obtained by the inspector, who would know which member to apply and there would be no abuse and would not be questioned by the application. I'm really glad to see that, as people of experience and profession, by noding your head, you confirm what I'm saying. This is, therefore, the principled position for which we Serbian radicals are behind, and we are truly convinced that the sooner the citizens understand and that these things, as part of the future government, will be able to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54303	Eight minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 38. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54304	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the amendments submitted by Mr Krasic, Plužarevic, Krstin and Master of Srboljub Zivanovic, refer to breaking norms, or members talking about penalties that will be imposed on business entities or companies engaged in car transport. You've heard mostly from your colleagues' explanation of what the situation is related to these proposals. Article 39, to which the amendment was submitted by the magistrate, Srboljub Zivanovic, refers to a member of the 50th basic law and shows that there are 30 groups of violations of mostly formal nature, none of which are technical. We could understand when it comes to the safety of the means of transport to increase penalties, not to the extent that you imagined it, but in another way, to be put out of traffic by those vehicles that do not have minimum security for traffic, or for quality transport. Here there are thirty groups of violations for which punishments are scheduled, according to the bill, from 100,000 to five hundred thousand. It used to be between fifty and two hundred thousand. In light of the recent changes and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic in 2006, then, as Mr Krasic said, inflation was not so much that it is now necessary to increase by several times, even up to four times. We didn't engage in challenging what's called a crime, but we certainly want to intervene when it comes to the height of the threatened punishment for those violations. You see this, with a fine of hundreds to five hundred thousand dinars, the company or other legal person will be punished for the offence if they carry out a liner transport of passengers, and is not owned by at least three registered buses. Here it may occur that at certain times this transport is carried out even though there are no three registered buses. It may have expired for the third one yesterday, and it is not completed in good time, or it happens many times in practice that it is not completed because the economic operator is not liquid and cannot allocate funds for the registration of a bus. We don't say we should miss this, but it's probably punishments that are supposed to be high and threatened. Therefore, magistrate Srboljub Zivanovic suggested that fines range from fifty to two hundred thousand. So it's both a decrease and a smaller range. About the possibilities of abuse when it comes to the range, this is what Verse Radeta told you about how and how to take account and how this can lead to abuse in practice. The following provision - carries out the vane transport of passengers and is not owned by at least one registered vehicle. How can he perform at all if he doesn't own one vehicle? Here, I'm not the owner of any vehicle and I can't do it at all, theoretically, let alone do some extra-line transport. That's not possible at all. Furthermore, the vehicle carrying out line transport does not have a valid driving order. We do not encourage that there is no valid order of driving in the means of transport, but we believe that if from any, so sometimes there can be an objective case, there is no valid order of driving, that the penalty of five hundred thousand dinars is very high. The vehicle carrying out line transport shall not have a valid and certified price list. Also, nothing terrible will happen during the journey itself unless there is a valid certified pricer, and especially if it is, it is not explicitly proposed by the law to say – if it is a line transport. A valid driving order, or price list, may not be found in a vehicle that is on an extra-line transport. Then what do you want? In that case, will you punish the carrier for up to 500,000 dinars? There are several other cases, which he says - by the end of the month no more than 10 per month, he does not provide an accurate report on unfinished liner transport and that he will be punished for this, as well as up to 500,000 dinars. All of these are allegations that have no adverse consequences for passenger health. We don't support the mess and the ride that probably exists in that road transport, but we think the sentences are drastic, they're too high. Because of this, Srboljub Zivanovic, as a man who has worked in the economy for over 30 years, has great experience, has a lot of understanding for businessmen, believes these penalties should be reduced. If you thought that on such high sentences, you would later, in a better way, fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it is not worth much to you, while stealing, even if it is encouraged by former or current ministers in the government, there is no progress for Serbia's economy and for a better standard of Serbia's citizens. None of the increase in these fines will benefit neither the citizens, neither will travellers who are away from each place, here again Gornja Košlje, is General Arsenovic there, it is his birthplace, 40km from the municipality headquarters, where the bus does not traffic again once a week, and earlier it was. You can increase the sentence I don't know how many times, these passengers, the potential passengers living in those places, will have no use for it. We need to end the theft, we need to put an end to everything that is not good, what Serbian citizens condemn, and the SRS supports, and then we can hope for a better life and better regulation of relationships, and as long as there is, even if they are former ministers, it will not bring us any benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54305	Five minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. It's available for another minute and 30 seconds. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Transport and Liaison Committee have accepted the amendment, with a correction, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The 40th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54306	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to replace the number 1st item "150,000" with "50,000", and the number "500,000" is replaced by "150,000". We in the SRS feel that the level of punishment is not appropriate to the current economic situation in our country. You have provided that the level of punishment will be between five and even 15 average plans in the Republic of Serbia, and for the violation of point 1 of point 5 of this article, you have provided for a mandatory safeguard measure of confiscation of the case, i.e. vehicles used to carry out the offence. Did you predict how a person who is punished for a violation from this member will manage to pay the penalty, feed himself and his family and pay for all other obligations of the state? Do you know what the number of college-educated people, engineers, economists and other experts who lost their jobs in their firms, after this thieving privatisation, is now a taxi driver? That's when you tricked them, they lost their jobs, no associated work experience, no right to be treated, no hope of a retirement, and now that they've found another job, you're proposing for those already cheated so high sentences. What is next for him who has committed a sin, so he cannot pay the punishment, taking away an apartment or a house? On the other hand, you did not provide for such high fines for tycoons and directors in enterprises that pay their workers less than the minimum guaranteed personal income, which for years do not pay contributions to pension and health insurance, do not pay a single dollar in the Republic of Serbia's budget, do not pay a single dollar in the budgets of local self-government, where their businesses are. Do not apply the law on the confiscation of assets acquired by crime in enterprises purchased from criminal flows. One of thousands of such companies is "Livnica" Lig. You predicted taking a car to an entrepreneur who, as a taxi driver, is trying to feed himself and his family.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54307	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Connection Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 41. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic together submitted the 41st amendment. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42. Proposed legislation on transport in road transport. To remind you, my amendment refers to the amount of penalties prescribed. That's what my colleagues were talking about. I asked for the number of 80,000 to be replaced by the number "30,000", and the number of "150,000" to be replaced by "50,000". Of course, we all understand that the matter of every law, including this, is the height of the criminal provision. Simple criminal provisions in each law represent one instrument which guarantees that these provisions will apply in that law. However, when all the laws or most of these laws proposed and passed by this government are examined, they are the most adopted either because of the haste to Europe or because of the increase in penalties. In particular, the case of an increase in penalties is visible with this law and all other laws relating to the area of traffic. It's always reaching for one proven practice. The easiest thing to do is hit the driver's pocket and the carrier's pocket. They must, in order to do their job, pay the fines when they are punished. That's why I urge you to reduce all penalties, and the one I'm talking about and the other penalties that apply to this law. You need to know that the environment in which transport operations are currently taking place is not in some good situation. Jobs are getting smaller and gas prices, insurance and all other things are getting bigger. You can see that from the fact that at our gas stations, there's been less and less gas sales, and for that much, it's certainly downgraded traffic. Since this is the last amendment the SRS has submitted to this law, I will return to this law. I have to say, there are a lot of things where there's nothing to object to this law, but there are a lot of things that could have been better defined. As a result, the SRS intervened with a large number of amendments. We have a situation that, in Article 1, which defines new concepts, it's good that it defines these terms, some concepts are not best defined. We intervened here with amendments to these terms, but the government adopted some of our amendments, for example, adopted Mr. Milan Avramovic's amendment to the term "trace", and did not adopt my amendment to the term "distant" and "tax tariff". If we were right, we and the SRS are telling us that a lot of our amendments have been adopted. Yesterday, the Transport and Communications Committee delivered 11 amendments to the government and the National Assembly. They should be considered, but while Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was there, he adopted all these amendments and will probably be adopted when it is definitely decided. What is interesting is that in these 11 amendments submitted by the Transport and Connection Committee, some of them are cited as being adopted – since this and that amendment was adopted by the SRS. So, not to brag about us from the SRS, but it's obvious that we are fundamentally and in one principle access to every law. I'll say something about the problems that exist in this law. The biggest problem is that some sublegal acts, which are an integral part or that are compatible with this law, are not adopted in time or are practically in some cases contrary to the provisions of the law itself, so that they also devalue the essence of this law. For example, there is another thing that is visible in this law, which is that it is changing under the pressure of certain structures, various associations, carriers, etc. We saw that winter we had protests from the owner of the van, etc. Whether this government has succumbed to pressure or something else remains to be seen. But it seems to me, however, that the government has succumbed to the pressures of certain structures, because the analysis of the effects of these laws shows that there is no obligation for these laws to comply with EU laws, which again gives some answer in itself that the government has succumbed to the pressures of some associations. Article 30 of this Act prescribes the obligation of regular maintenance, the necessary maintenance equipment, but therefore abolishes the necessary professional training of the maintenance person. However, I believe that this provision on the necessary professional preparation would have to exist. On the other hand, there is no indication of how it is established that the control of technical regularity has been carried out, because the law does not speak of how the technical correctness documents are filled and certified. Article 11 of this Act refers to types of passenger transport, and there is no mention of the concepts – city bus and suburban bus, which, in my opinion, is one of the faults of this law. When it comes to driving order, it is not defined in the happiest way, so in one provision of the law, it is said that driving order is intolerable. When you say it like that, you might think it's a value paper or something, because it's exactly the terms used for this matter. "The unique setting of the lowest prices," which we generally have nothing in the SRS, can have bad sides, so we might have a situation like in Greece, yeah, let's just say, if you followed, our colleagues were smashing their windshields and drilling their tires for this very reason. On the other hand, the only kind of transport that the law leaves to local self-government is this taxi transport, and if you look at the effect of the law that says that the goal is the single market, I think that's how you rule it out. It is further said that law enforcement will have no additional costs, but in my opinion, they will be. We'll have new regulations, new provisions, instructions, quotas, etc. I'm sorry Mr. Mrkonjic isn't here, he left and wasn't even present at the time of the principle debate when I was talking, but we have a situation that my colleague Lapcevic was talking about. Namely, I come from Nis, and I really confirm that there's a huge, huge crowd in the paper SUP to issue new driver's licenses, traffic licenses, license plates, etc. Somehow, when it comes to the city of Nis, it's as if the city of Nis, besides all the other bad things that hit him, that nothing works, does not do business, industry, people have no income, extremely hard to live on, and besides all these things, they have to wait around the clock to get to something. But this isn't the first time when it comes to the city of Nis, when it comes to driving licenses and license plates. Such a situation is a year ago and when it comes to the issue of ID cards, new passports, etc. Of course, this may not apply directly to the Ministry of Infrastructure, whose head is Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, this is primarily a question for the Ministry of Interior, but in the framework of the Ministry of Interior is traffic. In Nis, we don't have a SUP chief, we don't have a traffic police chief, we don't have any other very important commissioners, and maybe that's why they're so busy, because there's no one to organize the job. Last time I spoke of a lack of character and a variety of rules that are contrary to the law itself, I won't now. Remember, there were gentlemen present. The real chaos of the government in the field of driving tests, where tests are old, laid by new and many other things. People don't know which category he lays, what weather conditions he meets, and a lot more. Since my time is over, this is what I'd end up with. I urge the government's representatives to consider some more of the amendments to the SRS and to all those they find for the same adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54309	Since he was the amendment of MP Nikola Savic, he was used eight minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. One minute he stayed available to the MP's group. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54310	I hope this one minute will be enough for our MP group. When it comes to criminal policy, the SRS is in principle about being less punished. You impose such fines on the EU's orders. Your sentences are European, and your wages are no or no. I have a specific question for you. When the Regulation on imports of motor vehicles came into force, exactly two years ago, a large number of citizens then imported certain motor vehicles, properly paid for customs, paid for VAT neatly, and in other registrations, it suddenly turned out that the power of attorney from Montenegro was not valid. The power of attorney has been granted in a court of law in Montenegro and is suddenly not valid. The state could orderly charge both customs and VAT, and now people are unable to register such vehicles. Please respond and go out to the citizens to meet them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-20-0.u54311	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 42. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 46th amendment has submitted to the 46th amendment, advance Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Does anyone who has not used their right want a word, since this was the last amendment to a search in particular? (No) After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Before we finish our morning work for today, and for today, we will complete our work, on the basis of Article 90(2), several notifications. Tomorrow, Thursday, April 21st, at 9.00 p.m., in the small hall of the National Assembly will be held public listening to the draft amendments and additions of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, and I remind you of the invitation to public listening and I call for us to participate in the work, since it is important matter not only for us, which are the direct subject of the law, but generally for the political system in the country. It will be held next week, the last quarter, which is the 28th April session, which envisions the arrival of the president and members of the government, a session of parliamentary issues Thursday, from 16:00 to 19.00pm. At present, arrangements are still in place on whether, on which date and when exactly, the session with the current topic will be held, since we have one parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, which has submitted a request and a motion for a session with the current topic. You will be informed of this in good time. You will be informed of the continuation of this session and the continuation of the work. Thank you.
