ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63503	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs who put their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please do so. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 86 MPs have inserted their identification cards into MPs and that another number of MPs is present in the National Assembly Hall. I would also remind the MPs that only on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly, or the session of the National Assembly, runs on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in the first position that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, with these notices and explanations needed to carry out the function of the MP. Extraordinaryly, the President, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, the right and position of this member may be reached at the session of the National Assembly orally in one address for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise this right? MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63505	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to ask a question about the subsidies of agricultural producers and about the subsidies in agriculture for 2012. And he would also refer it to Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic and Minister of Agriculture Dusan Petrovic. We SVM MPs have talked more than once about the problems in agriculture, and in particular about this problem. At first, I would like to say, as the MP of the SVM, I think the problem is that we are creating our strategic branch of economy, agriculture, regulation, and not law. What exactly am I thinking about? I mean, for example, to subsidize agricultural producers. It is not fair for them to receive subsidies through regulations. The government's regulation can change often, even at a phone session. I don't think that's good. The law is a different matter after all. What happened, for example, this year? The protest of agricultural producers is well known to all of us. It was due to a change in the way you subsidize during the year. The agricultural producer simply had no other choice. They were waiting for money, waiting for subsidies, and from the Ministry of Agriculture they got materials, even at the beginning of the year, in which there was anything waiting for them during the year. Unfortunately, very little has happened. I consider agriculture to be the greatest evil uncertainty right now. The price is uncertain, the subsidy is uncertain, the support of the country is uncertain. After the protest, Mr Petrovic announced that we would hold a session of the Agriculture Committee in August or September, in which he will announce the 2012 Agriculture Ministry programme so that our farmers know in advance what awaits them next year. I find it extremely important to know in advance whether there will be a subsidy per hectare at all, because we all know that there is a huge risk in this production. I think it's necessary to subsidize agricultural producers and give them support per hectare. The only question is whether it'll be up to 100 acres, up to 50, up to 30 acres. Personally, I believe that the state should give subsidies to a minimum of 50 hectares. For a family of four, it takes at least enough to live by a standard. I am interested – can any registered agricultural producer count on subsidies in 2012? So, I'm interested in how much will the Ministry of Agriculture give these farmers per hectare? The story of subsidisation had no effect, I think it's unrealistic, because in the environment every country does so and every country in the area of agriculture is making progress. It is an evidence method and the EU. Of course, those agricultural producers get more subsidies than our own, so if we continue like this, our agricultural producers will not be competitive on the EU market. And we with subsidies can at least keep agriculture at some level, while EU funds will not be opened to our agricultural producers. We must preserve our small agricultural producers and if we succeed, we can say that they will be easier to join our country. Of course, our farmers, most of them from Vojvodina, count on the funds waiting for them in January. All those agricultural producers who have more than 30 hectares in their land, unfortunately, the situation on the ground is not very good because there are producers who have not received up to 30 hectares. I wonder, when will they be paid? I'm also interested in whether the 2012 budget will provide for funding from 30 to 100 hectares? That's very important. It was promised to farmers. Those are some questions we're waiting for to answer, not just us, but I believe all agricultural producers. This time I urge Mr. Dusan Petrovic to answer these questions as quickly as possible and to hold a session of the Agriculture Committee as soon as possible and to present to us the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture in 2012 so that agricultural producers know how to register, or how to restore the registration of their agricultural holdings and to know about the funds they can count on in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63506	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63507	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia sent a report to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 October to stabilise the situation at KIM. The report covered and described the situation in KIM, about what the party has an interest in the escalating conflict and in the situation that is harmless. First, the Albanian side has its own interest. NATO and Eulex have their own interests, as they are certainly on the side of implementing Ahtisaari's plan, only the interest of the Republic of Serbia is not seen there. It was normal after this report that the National Assembly was ambushed, discussing it, and bringing some declaration as far as possible. It was not because this National Assembly had no majority, and the government had no majority and no declaration could have been found in this National Assembly, which would have been discussed. Serbia's Democratic Party to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sent its declaration on the restoration of state-owned policy to KIM, as it has obviously failed so far. The day before yesterday, you voted not to put yourself in the agenda. However, you put that resolution on the website of the Serbian Parliament, but there is no one there to propose. I ask the question of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – why does the website of the Serbian Parliament not say that the proposed DSS declaration? The second question is, why is it that all previous DSS declarations are removed from the site when it comes to KIM? It's one dimension of your responsibility and haughtiness. The second dimension is your policy that led Kim to where she brought him. It's a upside down capitulanic policy and it's something that burdens us especially the Serbs who live on KIM. You have reached certain agreements in dialogue with Pristina. All these agreements without exceptions are attributes of the statehood of the Republic of Kosovo. You can tell the story and distract this assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but just so you know that you did it past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, past all the previous declarations and laws, because you keep calling for a declaration, to the Constitution, and that's why you don't have cover. All of what you and Pristina have reached changes the existing situation on the ground, and the last declaration does not allow you to do so. You've now transferred it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that your destructive decisions and agreements are regulated by a regulation, where you don't even have that coverage. After all, you don't have a majority in the government because the resolution ministries that touch these issues certainly didn't vote for such solutions and that's something you need to know. Secondly, Article 5 of this book of origin states – data from the parent books referred to in Article 1 of this Regulation are used in accordance with the agreement of the dialogue team with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. These are not temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina, but an independent state of Kosovo. The head of the negotiating team announced that the government must adopt a regulation implementing an agreement between Belgrade and Pristina covering the entire territory. I ask the question to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic -- as Mr. President, do you think that you are implementing an agreement with Pristina in Kosovo, when you know that against the interests of Serbs living in KIM, especially Serbs in the north of KIM who will never accept those agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63508	National MP, one of the notices that you lack, I can immediately give you, with the observation that it is probably an unintended failure, not your ignorance of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The draft act entering the assembly procedure has been defined on the basis of Article 107. The Constitution is based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The bill can be proposed by 30,000 voters, each MP, the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the Citizens' Protector and the NBS. Please don't throw it away. The National MP has very seriously accused the National Assembly of putting documents in the process of the National Assembly in an inadequate manner. This is an explanation that is necessary for the MP to continue to work and, with consultation with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, to see that the political party cannot be a proposing act in the National Assembly. For further notice, I am at your disposal and is available to you as secretary of the National Assembly. MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63509	Mrs. Komic, in line with that member of the Rules of Procedure for Members of the SRS parliamentary group, very important information that we should receive and explanations to be able to deal with this work, to represent the interests of citizens. What explanations, what notes, and who should give it? I'm sure he should give the Prime Minister, and let him schedule it to the ministries, as the data we need concerns a larger number of ministries. Mrs. Komic, the EU particularly treats the Republic of Serbia, and particularly treats Kosovo. They say it's over. European statistics here view this region as SEE6, "Southeastern Europe 6" – Macedonia, Albania, Kosovo, Montenegro, BiH and Serbia. By December 9, you will have your hands and other limbs wrapped up, only to complete the homework you received from Brussels. However, are you aware that this causes people to suffer? Thanks to this policy of yours, everyone in Kosovo Mitrovica who wants to buy goods, 18% is cheaper if the goods come from Pristina than if they come from Raska. From the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and Pristina, both Kosovo Mitrovica and Raska are part of the Republic of Serbia. How can there be different prices in the beginning? Why does someone make people from barricades go to Pristina to buy cheaper than it would be in Raska, Novi Pazar, King or anywhere? Now someone's come to think of it, and now we need an explanation and an explanation, and now you're on your way to power restrictions. In Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecana, Zubina Potok, Leposavic, there are two or three hours of electricity, so four or five hours of electricity, so there are two or three hours of electricity, so four or five hours of electricity. People have nowhere to secure electric motors for freezers and refrigerators. Why do you deny people electricity? As far as I know, there is no electricity restrictions in Serbia. There's a continuous current in Belgrade. When there are two hours of electricity in Belgrade, then five hours of power, so is someone in Zvecan. But no, you've been assigned, and now you're forcing these people in every way possible, to weaken the idea that they're opposing something. They are opposed to something that is being implemented and which is the opposite and is not in agreement with Resolution 1244 and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please, someone has to be responsible for this. You have created integrated electricity – EPS and KEK. The collateral damage to your integration is people in Kosovo Mitrovica. You can't hide. That's how you got past the question of the list, and that's how you've been through a lot of questions. That doesn't apply, I'll tell you right now. No one lives in Serbia will accept what you have negotiated and negotiated. Please, why are you denying people electricity? Why do you make people buy goods from another location, where there's no medical control of those groceries? There's no medical control. That's where the Americans sell genetically modified wages, poison these people, etc. Why do you make these people buy that rotten food? Who authorized you to do this? Please, somebody's got to be responsible for this. It's not technically a matter of whether there's going to be power for two hours or not. If there are restrictions in Belgrade, there will be restrictions in Kosovo, as well. If there are 24 hours of electricity in Belgrade, there must be 24 hours of electricity in Kosovo Mitrovica, and that is, a real voltage, and not that it will glare there. Please give me an explanation of who did this? Why would he do that? What's an organized crime prosecutor gonna do against that face? Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63510	There was no reason to give a warning. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want to use their right under Article 286? If he wants to, please sign into the electronic system. No, I don't. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Vitomir Mihajlovic, Mladen Grujic and Zoran Nikolic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of Proposor Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, called for the meeting to be attended by Ljubisa Dimitrijevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Lidija Stojanović, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management and Vera Despotović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management. We continue to work and move on to the principle search of the 6th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL ON MARKET SURVEILLANCE BEFORE I OPEN THE PRINCIPLE OF THE 6th POINT, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, reminds the international MPs that today is Thursday, November 24th and that, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this is the last Thursday of the working month, from 16.00 d 19.00 hours The Government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the meeting of the National Assembly and to answer the questions of the MPs. Therefore, I would like to inform you that before noon until the session it will take up to 15.00 hours, from 15.00 to 16.00 a break will be set and depending on the pace of our work, from the time it is necessary to consider this 6th item of the agenda, which I will open, it is possible that by 15.00 hours we will move on to the next joint principle search, but by 15.00 hours you will be notified on time. On working hours outside the Rules of Procedure set on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, MPs will be informed on a timely basis, whether there is a need for the session, as the Assembly works both on Mondays and Fridays, but the session takes place on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, to be informed whether there will be needs, when we look at the work plan, to have the session scheduled for Fridays or for Mondays, that you can plan your time. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Market Surveillance Act. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the MPs of the Parliamentary Group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once every five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would also like to inform you that the following MPs will be on this agenda: MP Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Dragan Stevanovic, the SRS parliamentary group. If any of the other parliamentary groups would like to have the authority of one of their members or members as an authorised representative, please inform us so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a market surveillance law. Minister Dusan Petrovic will join us in ten minutes, so he will then use his right. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Dejan Nikolic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, the president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Kasalovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63511	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Republic of Serbia has adopted a market surveillance strategy for the period from 2010 to 2014, which has initiated and implemented the current Government of the Republic of Serbia and should be said that this is the first document in Serbia that makes a clear distinction between market surveillance and inspection supervision and which primarily identifies the competent authorities in whose work is the implementation of the activities and the application of the market surveillance measures, aimed at the safety of non-food products. This strategy certainly requires the establishment of a coordinated system in which non-food safety regulations are laid down. Market surveillance authorities undertake to effectively control the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia in order not to endanger health, safety, the environment and other public interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Of course, all of this without any unnecessary restrictions on traffic or when it only happens in accordance with the law and within the framework of the law. When you mention and talk about health, about the safety of citizens, about protecting the environment, it is a clear indicator of how important the area regulated by this bill is, therefore, the importance of this law. That's why, as an SPS-JS representative, I'd like to make a few points. First of all, I believe that it is necessary in the Republic of Serbia to seek an ambience that would allow in full so, I hope that the application of this law when we adopt it, in which those who oversee the market will possess a professional and professional knowledge, which will know their partial work and business environment in which they operate, which will always seek professional and professional training. That moment is very important, and I think it should be provided to these market surveillance people. On the other hand, we need consumers who know and recognize their rights, but also consumers who are educated, above all in this regard. We talked about this subject yesterday or yesterday on the Trade Committee and there was a question – when the product traffic is happening in places where it is not allowed, we all need to know that these products are products that have no confirmation of their origin and that they are also risky. The fact should be known to every consumer in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, such a product is insecure and always the consumer pays at the end, although it happens that these products are cheaper than those in other places where they are sold legally in other forms. Certainly, our consumers should also be familiar with the fact that a bed can be dangerous for babies, unless it is a bed made of wood and not plastic, that a mattress if it is smaller than a bed can cause great trouble and danger to the health of the baby. Of course, children's toys, which we had, unfortunately, opportunities to meet a few years ago, with dangerous chemical ingredients, can be dangerous. I wanted to present this information, which we presented as a Parliament club when we discussed the General Product Safety Act of May 2009. I think they're important to be heard for this occasion in this principle debate. On the other hand, a clear and adequate role is needed by economic operators, who should be aware of their responsibilities. I think that it is well, as the legislator put it, that they participated in the drafting of this bill, because their suggestions towards those economic operators that promote unfair competition, in terms of lower-price products, should contribute to the elimination of such entities from the market. Of course, their suggestions to those economic operators who sell their products without fiscal cuts should also be respected, as this is one of the evidence that these can be products without origin, can be products that are insecure to all consumers. Last years in Serbia, unfortunately, there was no proper supervision and therefore the first draft followed after construction, and today we also have a proposal for a market surveillance law. I would like to say that this is a proposal that introduces practice in the Republic of Serbia, a good practice in this area, and above all it is important for us that it aims to ensure that products that fully meet the requirements, in particular with regard to the safety and protection of the health of all consumers, and that means all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are all consumers sometimes, buying certain products, and of course we also need to ensure the protection of assets, environments and other public interests. In this respect, this law obliges Article 23 and introduces a sign of conformity, which introduces a product labelling obligation, which is guaranteed that it complies with all technical requirements and regulations. This law regulates a specific area in the way the EU has done, and here we should say that the EU does not have any excessive experience in this regard, because this regulation has been regulated since 2008, but it is regulated in this way, and this law will also ensure that it can first and foremost determine who is responsible for the threat of consumer safety and health, the environment or any other public interest, which is very important because, unfortunately, so far in this area and in this matter, we have practiced that different measures, different sectoral regulations have intervened differently in the same legal matter. I think this bill will avoid such a situation. On the other hand, this law introduces one planned coordinated work, which is in line with the strategy, which I have said in the introduction several introductory notes, primarily on Article 26 and Article 27, through the work of the Product Security Council and the monitoring of certain communication, which is very important, and cooperation between market surveillance authorities and customs authorities, and of course with other stakeholders. There is a obligation to adopt general market surveillance for a period of two years, of course of those activities which will primarily be directed towards achieving a general objective set out in this programme, in line with the strategy and strategic objectives. This draft law affirms market surveillance which will be in place to ensure free circulation of goods, without unnecessary restrictions, and which is clearly defined in Article 2. It's a bill of law. On the other hand, it is determined that those products that endanger the health and safety of users, i.e. with a particular risk, are capable of jeopardising consumer health and safety, must be recalled or withdrawn from the market. Therefore, market surveillance authorities undertake to do so, of course, with an explanation that is in accordance with the law and legal frameworks, and in no way arbitrary. What is important is that the principles of transparency and the public in the work of the market authorities, that the public about the work of market surveillance, above all, be adequately informed, both about work and the results of work, and, above all, in the event that possible risks to the health and safety of citizens are identified, be adequately notified to the public as soon as possible in order to avoid potential risks in this regard. Given the importance of the area regulated and the proposed solutions in the draft law, which the SPS-JS Parliament Club considers very important, we in principle support this proposal for a market surveillance law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63512	Ten minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63513	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at the very beginning on behalf of the SRS, Mr. Minister, I would like to congratulate on the courage of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the north of KIM, on the courage and unity that they promoted last night around 23.00 hours, when, by their unity and commitment to live on the eternal hearths, they drove from their barricades representatives of the KFOR and the EU, otherwise, the partners of this government in the KIM negotiations, to wish them on behalf of the SRS to continue to be firm in their efforts and commitment to guard the north, or southern Serbian province, and to do a job that does not in their name do the government of the Republic of Serbia. The other thing I want to ask you, Minister, last week the SRS made one remark here. In fact, it is in one indirect way related to market surveillance. We talked about a declaration concerning a product produced in Serbia and placed on the market in the Republic of Serbia. The declaration of this product states that the country of origin is Vojvodina. We asked, Mr. Minister, for my presentation stenograms to be forwarded to the competent state authorities on behalf of the SRS. We assume that your ministry is directly responsible for such a thing, so the SRS asks you again -- did you do something about it, what will be the reaction to all this, and will anyone, because of the violation of the laws and economic integrity of this country, be held accountable? So, the manufacturer and the market on which the product was taken is located in the heart of the town of Novi Sad, the northern Serbian province, as it is now modern, and therefore I ask you to respond and inform the SRS and the public of what you have done and what you will do to make this happen on the market, and in the context of market surveillance, no longer happens in the Republic of Serbia. This, Minister, what we got in the procedure, this government law looks more like a pamphlet. This document has 106 pages and only 16 is dedicated to the Market Surveillance Act. I think we should congratulate Mr. Kasalovic on the courage he had to try to defend something like this in the name of a government that doesn't and doesn't want to do it. Basically and essentially, everything this law should possibly provide in a normal state, as defined in its form and in its essence in Serbia. It won't provide because it's flawed, because parts of this law are never, but they'll never apply in practice. Mr Minister, I will remind you of a member of the 30th Law that you have proposed, which tells us that the provisions of several members, not to count them, will apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia, which will never happen, and that is not only the political definition of the SRS, that is the EU's definition, and that is the definition of most citizens of Serbia, which is good and that the SRS approves and welcomes and, on the other hand, certain provisions will be applied when Serbia joins the RAPEX system, which you have stated here in law only in one bracket, so I assume that all those who read this law or would possibly be in a position to apply it, must bend to discover what RAPEX is, how the RAPEX approach and what it means by its essence. What the public needs to hear and need to know, the RAPEX system can only be used when the state is a full member of the EU. That means, as the SRS backs it, it'll never happen. That's why we think this law is completely meaningless and lifeless. We've proposed some amendments to the text of this law, to that article while we thought it made sense. You framed Serbia, in the context of market surveillance, and because of your political definition, you directed it exclusively and turned it towards the EU. Where did you get the right to do something like that? That's why the citizens didn't give you a mandate. Most citizens in the Republic of Serbia no longer believe that. On the other hand, there are laws that are related to these laws and that are very clearly, even though you wrote them, your government or some government before you, it is quite still, there is no fundamental difference, which goes beyond that framework and these cooperation programmes have been defined as international regional cooperation programmes in the area of market surveillance. The EU and our relations in the context of market surveillance with EU member states could only be part of this broad international framework. You have reduced the whole story of this law to the EU and the European Commission. This is not the perspective of the Republic of Serbia. Listen to their public, listen to the people in their midst, what messages they send you, when you don't want to listen to the domestic voice of the public, when you don't want to handle your domestic political, economic and national interests. It's just that you don't want to do it, you can't do it. We're not surprised this law came into practice. Minister, we are not surprised at the story of a European fairy tale for 10 years. About these things, Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, this parliament and all of us are wasting our time. At the end of this government of yours, the question arises objectively – was something else expected to come. What you have stated in Article 2 of what the objectives of this law are, this law will not be provided. You know that very well. The devastating situation of the Serbian market, although there are several laws in this area, from accreditation, standardisation, product safety, technical consistency, etc. We ask you, since you have reintroduced these laws to European standards, where are the effects? Serbia is oversufficient with bad products, whatever character they are from, whatever sectors and spheres they are from. You know that very well. Even that orderly EU of yours, where it is decorated, and then I will show you what it is essentially and in nature, for example from the EU, cannot resist the inflow of non-quality and bad goods, although it has these standards, who knows when they were established and built and through their legislation adopted. It just can't. The essence, according to the SRS, is not at all in the formal or material weakness of this law. What essentially burdens the state of Serbia is that you have brought down institutions in 10 years, which is why you have brought down citizens' trust in institutions and that in economic terms you have mutilated an individual who is the main factor of the market. Minister, what are you telling us, that this law will protect the inflow of corrupt, incorrect or contrary to the standards of built products on the market of the Republic of Serbia? How can this law improve the quality of the market in a country where washing powder is purchased at 100 grams or for 50 dinars? In Serbia, ministers, people buy coffee daily for 30 dinars. It does not determine the quality of the goods exclusively of the market surveillance, standardisation or accreditation law, but is determined by the purchasing power of a single state citizen. What's the purchasing power? The purchasing power is such that the consumer basket amounts to 55,000 dinars and the average salary of 30 and change of thousands of dinars. Who in such a state can buy quality goods? Those who do not know how much they have, and what they need not to buy in Serbia, can walk for the weekend to Rome or London, or I do not know where else and buy what they need or go for winters and summers and take tens of thousands of euros from the people from their backs and spend in European and world metropolis. Therefore, the essence of the problem in Serbia is that we do not have a market that can require quality goods. You will, from a social point of view, hinder the competent state authorities to deal objectively with market surveillance and control, which is not unwarranted. Who buys BMWs in a state where they can't buy Lada? It's just impossible. Someone is responsible for the fact that citizens have been brought to the bottom. In a country where 22 or 23% of the population is unemployed, in a country where inflation is the largest at the level of the European continent, in a country where almost a million people live on the poverty line, you want to implement European standards of quality and control of products on the market. Who can believe and who can rely more on these European stories and European stories? Minister, we're not interested in quality and standard manufacturers. You want this law to assure us that you will improve the position of consumers, public interest, citizens' health, environmental standards in Serbia. Yeah, right. They don't buy citizens here what they like, but what they can buy and what they need to do in fleas, in some unregistered markets or sales places. As Minister of Trade, you know very well what it looks like and what the position of the state of Serbia is today. On the other hand, will this law really oblige domestic producers to introduce standards? How many sectors of industry demand a delay in the introduction of standards so that their products are not in line with your ideas and principles, because they do not have the opportunity to withdraw credit and invest in their technology and technology? Minister, I'll only read you one thing. Average age of technique and technology by sector in textiles for 35 years, in machinery industry 34 years, in pharmaceutical 21, in chemical 27, in the construction industry 30 years average age of machinery. You sell us European standards of quality, accreditation and standardisation. Well, my minister. Get everybody down in the government to the ground and get back to reality. You've wasted 10 years of our lives, destroyed technology and technology, industry and standards and the market and life and everything else. Now we're gonna act crazy, close our eyes -- we're following the European Union. You know how things are in your European Union? Here's an example from the European Union, look at this Minister now what it says here. These are examples of how they implement and apply standards. See this - from European funds as they spent money: organic olive oil from the dump, they spent millions of euros to produce organic olive oil, and then it was found in the investigation that organic oil was actually made on a dump that is 10 meters high in Italy. Then the ministers spent 50m euros on phantom farmers. So these are examples, over 100 cases of theft, robbery and embezzlement in the European Union of people whose examples you follow and whose standards you want here. And I have to tell you, Ministers, you see this now -- in the Netherlands, there's such an organization that has been involved in training the unemployed to become workers of railway companies, the judge called them a criminal association. Imagine if that judge came to Serbia how many criminal associations he would find and declare. So the EU bureaucrats stole money, ministers, and embezzled money for the victims of Chernobyl. You follow their standards and you build them here. Who's offering as an alternative? Tomislav Nikolic. What is the difference between them, between you and these European bureaucrats? There's nothing. Did they watch TV yesterday? Imagine that, God forbid, this country and the neighbouring state should lead Milo Djukanovic and Tomislav Nikolic. You know who put them together? They were composed by the king of the tobacco mafia Cana Sobotic-Toad. Let me tell you something, they've become rational and pragmatic. Now they don't travel to Rome, or, I apologize, to Paris at the Ric Hotel, that's far away. Since they don't have the money, under quotes, they're now meeting closer, in Montenegro. The only environment that has denied its presence is the Cane Frog. They still needed him and to make it very clear in the European Union's manner of crime, robbery and corruption profile the future and perspective of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, Tomislav Nikolic and Milo Djukanovic. That is why the Serbian Radical Party believes that citizens must take away from you who are promoters of European principles and standards, because these are essential European principles and standards. What is not in common with what I read about, and what is the example and behaviour of the current government in Serbia? What's there and where's the difference? What's the difference between Tomislav Nikolic and all the ones we've been talking about, that I've been talking about so far? There is no difference, Serbia must make a move towards you. It just has to be done. Where do you get the right to restrict us and to direct our perspective exclusively towards the EU? I don't know if you read the ministers a few days ago an interview with the head of the World Bank's office in Serbia. He tells you that you cannot build a perspective in this country exclusively directed wherever you want and that you must look for your chance and perspective in the east. That's what they tell you, the ones who rank you on the "Ding Business" list about corruption, about one, about the other, about the third. They judge the standards and opportunities in this country, and they say to you: "Hello, think of yourselves." They project their growth 0.5% next year. You citizens assure them that their future and perspective are there. They're innkeepers and they're wasting our resources. How are you going to apply the Market Surveillance Act to KIM? Who's gonna do it? The Ship's institutions or us? The EU sees them as independent, independent. I expect regional co-operation from you in this context. And with them, if you are part of this European society, you will have to exchange information within the framework of the ratex, with your own territory according to these European standards. That's why all this is unacceptable for the SRS. What is unacceptable for us, it is unacceptable, but the public in Serbia must hear and know that this law is completely inadmissible, that this law will never apply parts of its members and provisions in practice, or will never apply them. Serbia will never be part of the EU, but it never repeats, it is the EU's definition, it is the definition of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe, after the next elections, that it will remain a commitment of people who will lead this country to look for a chance and perspective for the development of this country on some other meridians, that the development and perspective of this country begin to build with those who are our true friends and partners, and not those who are for our territory, for the heads of Serbia or for some other concessions or for the twisting of our hands. So, Mr. Minister, this is all just not the law, you know it well, which is why you didn't want to defend it. We don't blame you for that, you wouldn't have anything to say, possibly to read the explanation. We won't support this, and we really believe that this law will never be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63514	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63515	The National Assembly is a place of great freedom, and democracy should be nurtured in it, the right to express its position, but it should not become a place in which the unworthy will have the right to attack the worthy, it should not become a place in which someone will excavate their anger on better than themselves, it should not become a place where, according to the prognosis of these swan songs, they will be directed exclusively against Tomislav Nikolic. I do not believe that you are enjoying what you heard in this room, but you assume that it can in some way defend you from the defeat that awaits you in the elections. Please, I don't need anyone to defend me in this room, nor should anyone speak to a folk MP who is running around Tomislav Nikolic like this that it's not good or that it hurts him anymore, because first he should wipe his nose with a handkerchief, and then talk to me, but there is a Rules of Procedure that you should have just said -- sorry, you're taking data out of Tomislav Nikolic's private life, maybe he is a criminal, but you can't say it here from a pay phone. Please, save a little, we'll protect the better authority of this assembly after the election, but there won't be this many of those who destroy the authority of the assembly. Please, for a while at least rise above this political party struggle and don't use this stone in a shoebox to stop progress and change in Serbia. It's impossible. I've been telling you for three years it's impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63516	Thank you. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63517	Mrs. Comic, you've injured Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have not preserved your dignity as the predecessor spoke, which is in line with organised crime and the Balkan-dominated mafia. So, he is a direct participant of the criminal clan and what proved yesterday, along with Milo Djukanovic. (President: National MPs, please give an explanation if you wish to give in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and do not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and use your two minutes in accordance with Article 103.) I'll talk about how you hurt him, because you know very well, although DS, i.e. Miki Rakic, built this phantom organization of SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63518	People's MPs I warn you that you cannot abuse the right to receive the word, to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure for showing your political views to which you do not have the right to injure the Rules of Procedure. So he's asking you to hurt the Rules of Procedure. I ask the other MPs not to earn. The right to say what you want implies an obligation to listen to what you do not want. The right to receive a free word on the basis of Article 103 requires the obligation to respect the rules under which the free word is used. If you want to try to convince me that the rules are equal for all are not good, then I have to give you notice in accordance with Article 90 that I believe in it deeply and that there is no one who will convince me that the rules for all equals are not good. So there is no abuse of the right to a political replica under the attitude – I want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63519	I understand, Mrs. Comic, if I may continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63520	You can, but it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63521	I believe you followed the course of the session and the presentation of the previous speaker and you should have reacted. I stand behind you breaking the dignity of the National Assembly, for he said in his presentation that the unworthy were participating in the work of this session. So you don't interrupt me anymore, I'll end up with the words of our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj – I am ashamed, I say that in front of the citizens of Serbia, that is what he told the president in The Hague tribunal, which I have ever known this man.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63522	National MPs, the president of your political party cannot in any way be part of the reasoning of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I am chairing. People's MPs, please do not disturb the chairman. I am trying to take care of order at the National Assembly session and that you are not trying to ensure, by abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the right to send political messages. There's room for that in the replicas, there's room for exposure. The rules are the same for everyone and there are no violations of the rules. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You have no right to a replica. You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, if you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63523	I really think you've hurt Article 27. Because of the lies that the predecessor, or gentleman who spoke before Natasha Jovanovic, said here. I didn't spit anyone out here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63524	People's MP, I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure because some MP is telling a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63525	You didn't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63526	People's MP, I can't even know if you're telling the truth right now. I can only listen carefully. I ask the MP, Natasha Jovanovic, to stop distracting me. It's now a measure of pronunciation, a procedure to give a warning measure. You're not helping me with my work. You're distracting me from my work. I know very well when someone helps me with my work, and when someone interferes with my work. You interfere with my work, and I beg you not to do so, because it is a threat to the reputation of the National Assembly. MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63527	Since a few lies and ugly things about SNS have been said here. Just to let you know, yesterday, the SNS delegations had the honour and pleasure of being a guest of three political parties...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63528	Excuse me, MP. I ask the People's Messengers to stop earning. If you think you have the right to call someone a member of organized crime by misusing the words received for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that's not the basis for replication, then you're wrong. Please sum up your emotions with the obligations that are in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has the right to reply. I ask you all to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The abuse of the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure will be neither will it be an insult. When a messenger speaks falsely, he knows whether he is telling the truth or not. When the Messenger wants a replica, let him explain that the other apostle is telling a lie. I'm not in charge of knowing when which messenger is telling the truth or not telling the truth. I am in charge of respecting the Rules of Procedure. Please stop interrupting that session. You have one minute and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63529	The SNS delegation had the honour and pleasure yesterday to host three parliamentary political parties in Montenegro as part of its preparations to know exactly what it is with its neighbours, especially with Montenegro, which we do not think we have the best relations or at least not as good as we should have. We were a guest of the New Serbian Democracy, the SPS and the Democratic Party of Socialists. If this is part of organized crime, we were dealing with organized crime yesterday. For us, we have dealt with preparations for Serbia to be a country that co-operates with everyone in the world, and for you it is organised crime. I haven't changed your attitudes in a long time, but don't think that the citizens of Serbia don't see what this is about. We will win the DS if the game is fair and fair, and if it is not fair and fair and if others help, then I do not see any too big reason for Serbia to look forward to anything in the future. Thank you, Mrs. Komic, I repeat, you never have to protect me in this room, just keep this people's assembly from turning into what it looked like a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63530	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63531	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry, for technical reasons I didn't make it to the very beginning of the session and I'm going to make up for it in the closing statement, I'm going to say what I wanted to say at the very beginning and Parliament won't be denied for it. Just a few comments on the previous statement concerning the content of the law. To avoid any confusion, this law, regardless of what is the harmonisation of our rules in this area with EU regulations, works with or without the EU. The market surveillance law, without all the provisions that have been discussed here, relating to the various rapid alarm mechanisms that should be functional in terms of risky goods, goods that could endanger health, public interest in any other way, security. So this law, when it enters into force, will introduce a whole new quality that implies the obligation of a large number of state authorities to have a coordinated approach and performance in this area. It introduces different types of co-ordination, including one advice set up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They don't introduce themselves by this law any standards. There are a large number of technical laws that form the basis and based on these technical laws already passed in this assembly and voted, some sublaws have been passed. No one will have any new obligations to standardize, those obligations already exist. It's about their respect or not respect. At this point, the state authorities are also obliged to control whether these standards are technical, whether they are respected or not. And today it's forbidden to be in the traffic of our goods that you don't meet technical standards. In order to improve the control system without improving this control and control system, it does not cause an increase in costs. That is why this law is passed because if and when, after the entry into force of this law, which will happen if the Parliament is supported by the law, there will be a very strict law-based obligation, I can even say one programmed obligation of a large number of ministries and different other bodies and bodies to comply with their activities, to be more efficient and to achieve the greatest possible cost of taxpayers' money, which is naturally foreseen in the budget, the greatest possible effect, which is that our citizens can buy with certainty, with the greatest certainty of quality goods in our market. All the remarks you've made about this can be debated and very serious. I can only say one principle and it concerns not only this area, our today, but life at all. Somewhere after the war, when he talked about important things, Churchill said that democracy, not that it wasn't ideal, was nothing, except that nothing better was invented. The way to fight for the establishment of the most qualitative standards is one constant process and this government, the future government has no one, I believe deeply, who will be responsible for implementing the executive authority in this country without being able to strive and fight all possible forces that our citizens have the opportunity to buy the best possible goods, to be standardised, to have the state able to control all of this and to cost the least possible money. This law is good because it repairs the system. By the way, it also harmonizes the state of the country's rules and systems with the EU. Of course, we're different about that. It's no secret. We differ not only for years, but also for decades as to whether the country should go in one direction or another. Some of us are changing our attitudes. I think the ones who changed that they changed in the right direction. I don't think they're capable of doing it, but it's a good thing they changed their minds and everything. I think we're doing a good thing. It's a good thing we have here a constructive and serious debate about this law, because this is an important regulation. If the National Assembly is to support the adoption of this law, we will have a large set of obligations that will lead to different ministries and governments within the deadlines that are strictly prescribed to make Serbia a safer and better country when it comes to protecting the market than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63532	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Right on line, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63533	Minister, in one part you understood what I wanted to say, exactly what you said, there is no difference between you and them. What the gentleman who spoke to me and asked me to wipe my nose did not understand, our message is this: they do not deal with organized crime, but they do organized crime. It's an SRS message. As for the standard, Mr. Minister, I have not disputed that they have existed until now, but our question is – why haven't you applied them? Did you have a problem with lack of legislation? No, it's not a problem, Minister. We fear that, you are promoting the market surveillance system, so many will have to comply with the standards because of this improved control system. Minister, who's going to buy goods that will comply with high standards? Those who buy 100 grams of powder, do you? The ones you left out of work, the ones that are unable to heal, school, etc.? Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you one more question, who's going to invest in technology to provide market surveillance with standard products, who's pulling loans exclusively for liquidity for the last five years, and one third of these loans are about paying VAT? Will these companies, enterprises with an average age of 35 years? You are passing a law that is inapplicable because of general opportunities in the state and in society, and for these occasions it is solely you who have led the government and the state for the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63534	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63535	I don't want to get into any general controversy, but just a few facts just to say. It is not at all disputed that the whole of Europe is in a lot of complicated economic relations. It is not just that in such a state, it is the west of the European continent. And the east is in that state, too. It is simply not the subject of our conversation today, but in these very complicated circumstances I think it is important that both MPs and citizens have a clear idea of what is happening in our country, what is happening in the environment. Serbia is a country that already has investments than Croatia and Slovenia combined in 2011. These are countries that have a much higher GDP per capita than Serbia has, which means that in the last few years we have become very attractive in this very complicated and difficult economic time for investors, both domestic and foreign. Statistically, different conclusions are drawn about how old our technology is, or less, old, but the indisputable fact is that in 2011, Serbia is an environment in which, in difficult circumstances and times, domestic and foreign investors want to invest money. That's the money you were talking about in another way. I disagree with you on the assessment, whether the opportunities in the country are such as to encourage those who have money to invest or not. As long as investors don't invest money certainly can't be a better state of affairs with reduced employment and with the creation of elementary conditions for a better standard of living for all of our citizens. I would further like to say my position both for MPs and for citizens about what has been in this 10 or 11 years. I am fully aware that a large number of families do not live well, but incomparable opportunities are in the standard of our citizens in 2000 and today. I don't want to debate at all what governments were or what governments they were today, the fact is, the general known thing and every time they look at their family history they know very well what our life opportunities were in 1999 and 2000, and what they were in 2011. I believe we'll have one expansion growth in the next four years. I don't agree with some speakers that future governments will look very different from what they are today. I do not agree with you or the people who spoke after you, I think that after the next elections, the government will be less the same as it is and we will make a very significant move towards the EU. It's good for every man who lives in our country. I'll finish by mentioning the thing I said here a few days ago when I defended the other law. Lithuania is a country that has three and a half million inhabitants. There are 500 thousand landowners involved in agriculture. They have the same original budget, so the original budget, like us. About 200m euros is for agriculture. It is a tax-based budget in Lithuania, but it has a billion euros in 2011 for agriculture from the EU budget. It can't be for anyone in Serbia, and certainly for 800,000 families dealing with agriculture, it can be worse if we now have an additional billion euros for agriculture, and we would have if we were a member of the EU today. That is why we need to become a member of the EU. (Dragan Stevanović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63536	Would you like a replica? (Dragan Stevanović, from the place: Yes. The minister didn't get me. ) Don't, please, the minister is extremely involved in the work and the explanations are quite in place. The replica is an association to something still in this House that tends to show that you, the minister, and so on, have not really been misunderstood. It's clear. Anyway, you have a chance through Zoran Krasic's mouth to say, now I'm giving him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63537	Better through your mouth than mine. How much time do I have, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? I'd like to hear it from your mouth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63538	I hope you haven't forgotten that your full time is 68 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63539	I am concerned about the mild shaking of 68 minutes of anti-European discussion, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Mr. Petrovic, we've learned two things today. First of all, in this bill, you have not listed a Styrofoam in any article. Since this law doesn't apply to the Styrofoam, you've seen, the White Ship has gone into rerun. Another thing, Mr. Petrovic, we learned, you confirmed a folk saying - early dogs to bite you. What the hell did you do to this party? Do you see what kind of party that is? You made them. Now let's get to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63540	Mr. Krasic, let's apply a little vocabulary, the dignity of the Assembly, and, in essence, who wounded the dogs, you probably know that better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63541	And you know, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. You were the vice president of the SPS, Slobodan Milosevic, you remember. I guess you're proud of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63542	Now I'm telling you I'll give you a warning if you keep acting like this. Please speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which you know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63543	Woe to the one whose law is in the topless. Don't threaten me right now. It's mobing, when you're threatening. I work here under European regulations, don't do that. Mr. Petrovic, this bill of law is actually a federalization. You know what a Sanaderization is. Someone boasted that he wanted to be a Serbian Sanader and Sanader ended up in prison, so that Serbian Sanader would end up in prison. That which my Nishils say to you, except for the law when there is no punishment. What kind of law is that when there's no punishment? Articles 31, there are no criminal provisions. Well, please, the European Union has taught us by 1990, when it was the European Economic Community - don't put everything in the law right, but what's just forbidden. By that logic, the law should be filled with criminal provisions. This law doesn't have any. But this law has several dangerous things. I'll get back to those dangerous things by the end. Now I want to start by saying where there's a real problem. There's a real problem in how can we define what's marketable? Under this law and by some very few standards that apply, it's all a market. There's no more business, it's all market. Everything that is offered and demand is subject to is market-based, so the quality of medicines, the quality of hair color, socks, televisions and Styrofoam are also within the market. Look, it's all coming. There is a real problem if several of them, who are in charge of technical aspects, are to exercise market control. How do they communicate with each other? By the nature of things, every inspectorate has that foreign exchange -- every village in the village. No one gives their share of jurisdiction. How's the coordination? God save me. And because of that, it seems to me that Article 6, you're referring to nine institutions, nine state bodies, and number 10, you're putting too wide a thing where agencies and everything and everything can be. And now everyone needs it, anyone can control it. I'll tell you right now, in this article 6, you got a little confused when you listed these responsibilities and areas, especially in agriculture and sanitary areas. At least if you'd prescribed it from the law, it would have been clearer, around the courts of these here, not only under pressure, but also these others. But, well, it's not the point of this law. Furthermore, Mr Petrovic, this definition of the manufacturer within the meaning of this law to be expelled - the manufacturer is any natural or legal person who manufactures the product or for whom the product is designed or manufactured, or traded those products under his name and stamp. This: "trades under your name and stamp" is mandatory to throw it out. Why? You in these big trade chains today have those merchants declared as producers, and he only has a pack. Remember. Ten years ago, you had a TV producer, Sekulic, remember, "Best". He had nothing to manufacture. He didn't produce a cathode tube, not a frame, etc., but a man put in registration that he was a manufacturer. That's the way it is, Comtrade. What chip does he make? Puts it together. In order for someone to be a producer, he must qualify with the minimum technical conditions he meets for that type of production, and not now – I have the money, so I order those who have these machines, you work, and it goes under my name. To get kicked out of these regulations. It's not just in this regulation, in many regulations. That has to be thrown out, not a scam. It's a scam. Do you know how many companies you have today registered, have a warehouse, a cell phone, a fax, an internet, a purse, not the Dacic's, but the smaller, tie and the possibility of showing up in a public tender and getting it as a manufacturer, and he doesn't produce anything, his goods come from Poland, from the EU? That doesn't stop this law. It's also a big flaw for me. Secondly, you've written some things here. Well, you're exaggerating from the EU. You even disrespect them, which I am pleased to tell you honestly, about harmonisation, about these standards, etc. That was it – mine, mine, and European. Exaggeration. The top of all that is a member of 30. I think Stevanovic was saying something about it. This when read in Serbia, he says – the provision of a member of this and to this is applied from the date of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. What are you harassing people for? You make people laugh when it's no time to laugh. December 9th will be a question and an answer will come whether to put a parade on candidate status to start possible negotiations on possible convergence possibly in the EU in 2389. This law should, according to the best calculations, take effect in 2389, in the second half. What are you bringing this law here, putting it on the agenda? We've got a lot of work to do. Luckily, you didn't put him in an emergency procedure. You've got a problem with the calendar. I know you have a problem with red letters, but with the calendar, you obviously have a big problem. Furthermore, Mr. Stevanovic told you earlier that it is with organised crime in the EU in the Brussels administration. Here the EU mission is the largest in the number of employees. You see, a little bit of Deger as a collective factor. And he will be on the agenda in the European Parliament. As you have concluded that you should have a controlled part of the opposition, which is for the EU, and then when it is a real problem, you count – the EU, call and they say – to your feet, come. That's how they in the EU reason. And they say: All must be pro-European. Now you have all the pro-European parties. The explanation is 74 pages, only declarations of compliance with EU regulations, 74 pages, so many, I counted everything. Do you know what the French and the Portuguese and these others say? These directives of yours, regulations, standards, what does the EU bring? The Portuguese say – we use two to three percent of what suits us, what doesn't suit us we don't take in our hands. Why are you taking 120%? In Serbia alone, 120% is applied to what is supposed to be the standard. It's being built into our regulations. Everyone knows it can't be applied to us. Don't let God apply to us. But, no, 74 pages. Given this when the law is to come into effect, to tell you the truth, I would punish you and make you pay damages to this paper, because this has nothing to do with it. This is just a waste of paper and that the typist typed this. That's where you'd have to pay some fine. Why are we wasting paper on such pointless things, something that will start to apply in 2389? Which one of us is gonna be alive? The point is, can we survive in this real time, not in the frozen picture? Next, you're talking about some kind of mutual notification. Mr Petrovic, you have also put into this law - the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And you treat Serbia as unique, right? Yes, it is. So says Boris Tadic. There are red lines under which you can't go. Kosovo and Metohija are the AP in the Republic of Serbia, such as the AP Vojvodina in Serbia, such as the municipality of Novi Pazar on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The talk here is about the authorities applying regulations throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Please, throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You have the full support of the SRS, just tell me how you're going to implement this throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Watch out. But, Mr. Petrovich, do you see these 74 pages? This applies to those 22 in the EU who say – Serbia is without KIM. Do you know, Mr Petrovic, that in the progress reports, there is a special report for Serbia, especially for Kosovo? Mr. Petrovic, they don't believe what you wrote here. These are your partners, political partners, etc. They don't believe, Mr. Petrovich, what you wrote here. When I say, Mr Petrovic, I don't mean you, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I mean DOS as an integral part, since DOS is integrated. So that's where the big coalition capacity is demonstrated. Any one of you can go with any one of you. A moment ago, you were honest with me at Latvia, Lithuania. I don't know, maybe I'm confused. That's your goal -- at any cost to get to the EU to use funds, so the EU says -- 60 billion has spent on you, but "where does that money come from," what would my Nishi say? God knows. Came in with two bags, so now millions and millions, and what do we do with these other people? They're burning up. When the EU is said to be the immediate loss of employment, is that right? When EU pensions are said, 1.2% can be raised and nothing more. You say it nicely, that's your goal, to grab it, but there's no way for, citizen Mr. Petrovic. There's plenty for some, here they are. You weren't there yesterday. Here's who has the video - Tadic, Toma, Kostunica, Velja, Vuk, Ceda, Canak, Sulja, Rasim, Mladja, Krkobibić, Dačić. Twelve. It's a timer. I gave each one a yellow star. You'll be fine. The EU does not care which of these 12 will be in the government and who will be in the opposition. You see how well someone understood good neighbourly relations, Mr. Petrovic, rather than you. Milo Djukanovic is attacking you to interfere with his internal affairs, that you are defending the Serb community, as he says. Right? So they call upon you that of George, the counsellor. You see how he irons it. You see how he irons it, tobacco smoke is a miracle. A miracle. You see, "Sanaderalization." I'll go to Yasha, Zukorlic's. Wherever you can't, he can. He's blowing your neck, so you guys can do the dirty work before he does it. I hope no one in Serbia will finish the dirty work that is required of Serbia. A signator is wanted in Serbia. There are a lot of candidates for signatures. You can see for yourself. And that's the market. By market principles, you have made a party of enemies of Serbia. You can see for yourself. I can do it anywhere. If the Russians can give the Styrofoam, Konuzin will speak at the rally. Styrofoam is a miracle when a man leans upon a Styrofoam. What's the difference between you two? Tadic's flying on a plane, and this one's flying on a Styrofoam. There's no other difference. Do you understand now that there is no difference between Vuk Draskovic and your coalition partner? That's no difference. What difference does that make? Politics is the same – the EU has no alternative. Look, get out of that mantra, there's nothing out of it. This law, Mr. Petrovic, will not solve the real problems that exist and have always existed. To not personally understand that there is now that you are a minister, no, that problem exists for 50 years, who is responsible for what, how they communicate with each other, etc., so there have been different opinions. It was even thought to build a department of inspection work. There were even such opinions. There were also major problems with these compliance with some standards. There are some standards that we can't comply with. We can't accept them. We, with that capacity as a state, need to find an efficient system. It doesn't matter what it's called, but when it's accepted from the EU, then their organisation, their way of thinking, their communication between the competent authorities, their powers of those authorities are imitated. But it's easy for them, they're rich and they can pay for it, they can have it. You know, on three sides of control, etc. We are not in that position, political or economic. This kind of imagery appears to us as direct damage. Today you have a situation where civil servants are protected, which the Italians would say "sinors", and what about the real sector, as it is said, what about the economy, what about your agriculture, Mr Petrovic? If you were to invest 10,000 euros in household agriculture, as the younger man took to the industry, do you know what would benefit from agriculture? If not directly economic, even if those living in the country could live. It's a big benefit, after a demographic image like this and a demographic movement. That's it. I know that you are forced to listen unconditionally to the EU, but Mr Petrovic, pass on yours, bearing considerable responsibility for it. To be honest with you, in the next election, there will be no talk of St. Sava, Titus, Draža, etc., there will be talk of a harsh reality and there will be a moment when one who is in power is accounted for. So, this story that you're attacking Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, which was Vice President Slobodan Milosevic and what little bit, you're attacking the edge of Dacic, don't, it's not working for you, you're spoiling the coalition. The coalition is a miracle. You've seen the socialists. They're bloody social justice fighters. Among them is the most prominent Mr. Bajatovic. He takes 1.1 million dinars a month and fights for social justice, so that all mouths are full so that no one is hungry. (President: Please, on the subject of the agenda. What? And the gas is on the market, Mrs. Comic. (President: People's MP, I wouldn't remind you if you had strayed from the agenda theme, if that hadn't happened. If you want proof, I can quote you how long and what you were talking about without having anything to do with the subject of the agenda. So, a member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda. I've got a little bit of work to do and I've got to go. Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63544	There was no reason for now. Twenty minutes have been used. The sentence that you have some more pressing business than the Assembly is a reason for warning. Please don't throw it away. So this is where we all talk to the public. It is my duty that, if I find that something has been said in violation of the reputation of the National Assembly, I remind the MP and warn that it has happened. The sentence spoken by the Messenger of the people, that there is a shorter way from the people's congregation, is not acceptable. MP Dejan Mirovic has a word. After him, the People's Messenger, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63545	It's one thing, in our opinion, a law that is inapplicable and unreal. The minister tried to defend the law in one way. However, it is clear that this law, which will apply the provisions, is part of the provisions, and that, if I am not the last members, which will only apply after entering the EU, is slightly unrealistic and we do not see the purpose of how this material can be partially regulated. In that sense, we have specifically studied your EU accession process and have come to the conclusion that Serbia simply, if you take the Stabilisation and Association Process, is signing the SAA. The European Commission's opinion that it will not, as early as 2020, be joined by the EU, i.e. Before 2020, Serbia will not sign an EU accession treaty. So it's a very unrealistic legal matter that we have to say is not in accordance with other laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and simply leads to a breach of legal coherence in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, you say for a reason that this law is about harmonising technical regulations with EU liquids. However, you do not specify any primary EU choice, you do not specify any member of the Lisbon Treaty, which can be said conditionally, is a kind of EU constitution and just as far as we have seen in this reasoning of the law and the accompanying documentation, i.e. in a declaration of compliance with EU rules, you shall specify Article 8. Stabilisation and Association Agreements and Article 72 However, we have a completely opposite view of you and you have made it very clear, that we simply do not want for economic or political reasons, more precisely because of the abduction of 15% of our territory by the EU, we do not want to be a member of the EU. What does that mean exactly? For us because of the changed circumstances, you as a lawyer must know that this is one doctrine in international law, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is nothing. More specifically, since 22 EU Member States have recognised so-called Kosovo or criminal formation headed by those who trade human organs, recognised as a kind of quasi state, that means they do not adhere to the purposes of the contract, i.e. the purpose of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement contract. So, for the dream of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and you certainly know that, because of that, there was also a break-up in the SRS, that this group of SNS has therefore left, i.e. evicted from the party, due to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, for us the agreement is simply nothing and, therefore, this law itself cannot rely on the provisions of this Agreement. You also say in the light of the law that it is based, above all, on the 2008 regulation of the European Parliament and the European Council. As a lawyer, you certainly know that the EU Regulation is one species, not one species, but under the Lisbon Treaty, a legal act, which is primarily applicable to EU Member States, so Serbia is not an EU Member State and it is completely inappropriate from an economic point of view, and in particular from a legal point of view, that one legal act that is binding on all EU Member States is applied in a country that is not even a candidate for the EU and, again, which I am sure that, according to all neutral and objective research, will not be able to sign an EU accession contract before 2020. It's a reality. We can now say that in two years' time, in three years' time, but when you look at the example of Croatia or Macedonia when they have won the candidacy, when accession contracts have started, when a deadline for signing the Accession Treaty is set, you will see that simply for at least another 10 years, Serbia will be on one devastating economic, legal and political path of joining the EU. Why do we think that? We consider these laws, so-called. European laws violate the legal coherence of our legal system, but we also stress that, and this is about this matter, they also violate the standard of living of our citizens and everything that makes our industry and our agriculture. I'll give you only two examples, you must know what this is about, for example. It is about the Law on State Aid Control, which was insisted by the European Commission and which, in fact, introduces the European Commission as a second-degree decision-making body in the Republic of Serbia. Something similar is happening in this law and we see that the law predicted that the report on the matter of the law, i.e. information, delivered to the European Commission. This is total nonsense from a legal point of view, not only because Serbia is not an EU candidate, it is not 10 years from EU membership, but also because all research, all neutral experts and foreign and domestic, show that the European Commission, we stand behind it, a third-rate body, a third-rate institution in the EU. You certainly know that there are 250 committees, among other things that regulate the agricultural area, which is your jurisdiction, which is made up of civil servants in the EU, and they are the ones who are in fact taking over the competences of the European Commission and adapting all the regulations that the European Commission makes, among other things, and those of secondary law adapt to their countries. So, this national law, which is presented here as mandatory, is in fact treated as second-rate law in the EU. Since you are a lawyer, I will give you another example that very specifically explains our thesis that European law is second-rate law in EU Member States. Surely you know that in 2009 the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany, for the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty, reached a verdict that effectively puts European law in a second-rate position in relation to Germany and, above all, in such important areas as tax regulation, budgetary, criminal law, civil law and other important areas such as defence and foreign policy. So, the strongest state, EU member, or just the EU member, which is the first to kidnap Kosovo, which is the first to impose these so-called so-called. European laws and standards have reached a verdict through their federal Constitutional Court in 2009, which is the Lisbon case, you certainly know about it, that European law is second-rate in that country, which is the EU's actual engine. So, I don't see why we would, in so many words, be larger Catholics than the Pope, and I don't see the reason why one law like this, you certainly realize it's out of line with our legal system, and that shows the compliance table that follows this law where, as far as we can see, more than ten times, the term is either "uncorrespondable" or "untransportable". Therefore, this EU regulation or legal act is not applicable in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would also draw attention to the fact that if you set out the EU regulation as some basis for this law, you should have given us an accurate and direct connection or clause between the members of the law and that EU regulation. However, the legislator acts exactly the opposite, and we see that one part of the law discusses the regulation, how the regulation is the basis of the law, and suddenly, somewhere in the middle of the law, the EU directive appears. It's just one illogical thing. Surely you know, since your goal, as governments, is to enter the EU unconditionally, which is quite the opposite of us, and that is not our goal, nor our policy model, and by that we differ, and you've noticed it well and you have this third group where the goal is to be like Milo Djukanovic, but that's another topic already. In this respect, you certainly know that there is a big difference between the regulation and the directive and that the directive must be applied in fact through the adoption of legal and sublaw rules. On the other hand, in the light of the law, you state that it is being adopted, among other things, to align with the 2010 action plan for faster candidateing. The National Programme for the Integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU is also listed. Again, I'm asking a few concrete questions that, from a legal and economic point of view, I'm sure you can't give an argumentary answer. How is it possible to pass so many laws at a time when you have so many sublaws that have not been passed and that do not follow these so-called. European laws since 2008, when the SAA was adopted. To be absolutely clear and concrete about our citizens, it is that you are passing laws on a single automatic template, by a kind of copying and these laws are in fact inapplicable, because your national integration programme also says that the fulfilment of the EU integration plan is about 60%. So you have a percentage, as far as the law is concerned, 90-100%, and as far as sublegal regulations are concerned, you have 60 percent. So this is about one illogicality or one consequence and the fact that you are trying to apply something that even Germany, or other EU countries will not apply, which is, in a legal sense, a direct fact and a direct application of the EU regulations and directives. We believe, although we are against the EU and we are absolutely the only party who is against the EU both economically and legally and politically, not only because they take 15% of our territory, but because we do not want to experience the economic fate of one Bulgaria, Romania and Greece, and in this sense we believe that these standards that are introduced in your portfolio are very harmful in the agricultural portfolio. You certainly know that Bulgaria was one of the largest exporters before the so-called transition of agricultural products, and they see what is happening now and how these highly subsidized products in agricultural terms from Western Europe coincide with that market in Eastern Europe. You mentioned, if I'm not mistaken, a Latvian example. But it should have been said because of our citizens and because of an argument over whether Serbia should even join this common EU agricultural policy, the following fact should be said, it is a common known fact, and you know it for sure. By 2013, it is prescribed that the old Member States have higher subsidies than the new Member States, and these are just 10 countries that joined the EU in 2004, including three Baltic and one of which you are talking about. Therefore, all 10 Eastern European members do not have the right until 2013 to have the same subsidies as farmers in France, the Netherlands, Germany, etc. That's a fact. So Latvia, Lithuania and all 10 EU member states, which entered after 2004, have no right to the same subsidies as those in Western Europe. They are in agricultural terms of a second-rate country. It's a fact and it's a general context. When you add to this fact the Transition Trade Agreement, which is extremely harmful to our agriculture, you know for sure that in the first year more than 40% of customs duties on imports of agricultural products have been abolished, when you add a loss of about 130m euros in our budget each year due to the suspension of customs duties due to the Transition Trade Agreement, you will come to a simple and easily proven conclusion. In the EU 2020, which is the earliest date for Serbia to join the plant, will be in terms of agriculture both in terms of this law and all other laws of three countries. The first is Western Europe, the second is Eastern Europe and third-class countries, the Western Balkan countries that will include Serbia. It's a fact that no one can dispute. Look at the Lisbon Treaty, look at these regulations, directives, standards and all that is imposed on us from the EU. As far as the standards here are concerned, we can see that this law is related to the Standardization Act. It should be said that our public knows, so it is a reasoned debate, that customs have simply been abolished in trade with the EU between Serbia and EU member states. You certainly know that when you look at the work of their European Commission, when you look at the World Trade Organisation, the champion in introducing non-tariff barriers, above all in agriculture and other important branches, such as industry. So we won't be able to sell anything on the EU market, that's a fact. Free customs duties are lifted if there are non-tariff barriers where the EU is the world trade champion, which are being renewed every year and which are getting stronger and stronger every year. It simply protects what is one of the basics of the EU, which is a common agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy he insists on right now in France. You have known since the time of de Gaulle that this is one of the reasons for the creation of the European Economic Community, just as the Germans insist on making their industrial products, and these are the two basic countries of the EU. Therefore, this problem and legislation, which includes this proposal, an inapplicable bill, should come up with one argument and see that simply the EU is not a good choice for Serbia, not only because it takes 15% of our territory, not only because it sends soldiers and Eulexes who harass our people in KIM, but also because we simply will not get anything good from the EU in economic terms. That's a fact. You can create such parties as SNS, you can create a euphoric European mood, but these are facts. Polls showing that more than 50% of citizens are against the EU show one absurd fact that simple people see what the political elite see, excluding the SRS that is absolutely against the EU, does not see. The European Union is a bad project for Eastern European countries and that is a fact. This cannot be challenged, neither can this law which is inapplicable and whose parts are likely to be applied at the earliest in 2020. In that sense, I see you mention here a deadline for the application of Article 6 to 2012. You must know, and we stand behind the fact that this deadline is inadmissible. You won't get, if you get any candidacy that doesn't mean anything, that's Mr. Ognjen Milic, who co-ordinator for IPA funds in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, openly said we won't get anything from the IPA funds more than before the candidacy. So, if you win the bid, it will be years before you get a date for starting negotiations with the EU. It certainly won't be 2012. You must know that it will be related, as before to The Hague tribunal, now to the KIM problem. So it is some of the facts that a serious government must face and simply has to have some strategy what if we do not sign an EU accession treaty for the next 15 years. That's the facts. Of course, you have populism and European fanaticism, like in the SNS, where I'm talking about some good neighbourly relations and things like that, but it's more than unserious, and it's going to show up very soon after that party's collapse into two parts, on Vucicev and Nikolic, after the election, but it's already another topic. So, we believe that the deadline until 2012 to comply with European legislation, which includes this law, is simply not realistic. We believe that it is not realistic until 2014, which is mentioned in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You see the example of Macedonia, she won the candidacy, if I'm not mistaken, in 2005, and already in 2001 they introduced an action plan for alignment with the so-called. European legislation and you have one concrete and easily verifiable fact that simply average salaries in the Republic of Macedonia are less than in the Republic of Serbia, although they have candidacy, although they are a step ahead of us in European integration. This shows you that it is simply a kind of propaganda and a kind of fact that the EU does not bring anything about standards better, but worse. The best example for this is Macedonia. We don't have to compare ourselves to Greece, it's already known. Also, you should consider that it's simply a lex specialis. You listed, if I'm not mistaken, 12 laws in this bill of law that are related to this law. I say again, we need to look at a slightly wider context and see how this law affects other laws, part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia where there is no appeal to EU law. In that sense, I believe it is a major failure of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We need to bring, as Slovakia in the accession process, Poland or Hungary, an interpretation of the court where it must be said whether or not the regulations and EU directives are directly applied, or whether they are harmonised in the context of national law. There's no interpretation here, just any ministry doing what it wants. You simply, not personally, but in the ministry, obviously there is no coordination between you and the European Integration Office, each interprets how European legislation wants it to be. You also have an example of criminal legislation, civil or restitution law where there is no direct link to European legislation, but it is simply interpreted as one of the European Commission's orders, which in fact abuses this process of joining the EU and imposing, thus completing very harmful conditions for our farmers, for our citizens, primarily through the State Aid Control Act. You certainly know and feel that your ministry, the subsidies that are more than necessary to our farmers, not your personal guilt, are being abolished, but simply because you are part of the government that listens to the European Commission. On the other hand, you have an incredibly harmful sublegal act, a list of organizations that are not subject to the Public Procurement Act. It is a sublegal act by the Ministry of Finance which has been adopted and which effectively puts the Public Procurement Act out of effect. Do you know who he favors? The European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and the German Development Bank. It is these financial institutions that choose businesses from the EU, such as the Alpine, such as the Por, which destroy our construction industry and have an absurd situation that the bridge via Ade and the bridge at Beška builds Austrian companies, not those who built it, such as Mostograding, the Energy Project, etc. In this respect, European laws are bad for our economic legal system and that is a fact, both from a legal and economic point of view, such as poor and harmonisation with European law for the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63546	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63547	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, with the SRS, this is an unacceptable law for several reasons. I will talk about legal reasons, economic reasons, technical and technological and the harmfulness of the consequences that can arise as a result of the application of this law. What are the legal reasons? In the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, we have dozens of laws that regulate this area. All inspections which are formed and which are now operating in the legal system shall have their own material foothold, shall have their own material laws on the basis of which they have received certain powers, certain rights and certain duties and certain sanctions for the non-execution of certain actions, which control certain inspections. You here inaugurate one system over the control system, and that's market surveillance. Market surveillance by the very legal definition is very narrow compared to everything you define here. But mostly, you defined it in Article 3 where you said which areas this law applies to, so you said that this law applies to the products covered by the following regulations, and you further say under point 1: "technical regulations adopted under the laws governing technical requirements for products" etc. The technical control area, technical surveillance, does not carry out market inspection. It can only be carried out in a certain part of traffic, but not technical controls, technical correctness, etc. So, all these provisions that followed after this, they're like such nothing. Those in the legal system cannot produce any consequence. Under point 2, you said: "Special laws and regulations adopted under these laws governing requirements for products and conformity assessment, which are harmonised with the relevant EU rules" etc., etc. One general definition that basically means nothing. Why? Because we don't know what laws that apply to. Here, I'm telling you right now, that any inspector will read, who will have certain powers that you've established in Article 6, he won't know what this is about. What instructions will that be? Which guidelines and instructions will be and who will give them, that is the question. There's nothing in this law. It's an empty letter on paper. What's the big deal? From a legal point of view, and to complete this legal dimension of this law, you don't have everything that matters. First of all, you in Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure set out in point 10 that the market surveillance authority is the authority of the state administration responsible for the exercise of market surveillance in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that ministry and you have counted all the ministries, and inspections have nothing to do with it. So surveillance is done by the ministry. He can't do that inspection, he doesn't have legal authority. That must be clear. So, in order for certain controls, certain controls, a certain type of control to be carried out, to be clearly defined by legal regulations, by general law, and that must be the law. You put the ministry here. So this can't be done by inspection, it has to be done by a ministry or by a certain body within the Ministry. You have to hire new people if we want to apply law as applied by the normal and modern world. Anything that arises beyond Article 6, where you mentioned market surveillance authorities, so you transferred it to one or that inspection, etc., that doesn't matter. It can't be done by inspection, it's done by the ministry, because you said that the market surveillance authority is a ministry. You had to say it was within that ministry inspection and then you found a legal way to control it. As far as economic reasons are concerned, they are closely related to technical and technological solutions and everything we have in economic and real life, economic life. Our technique, our technology is at the level of the '70s. You ministers know very well that in agriculture today we use tractors that are on average over 20 years old and over 25 years old. Our sugar candies are over 35-40 years old. Our mill-bought industries are old and were built 30 years ago. Our oilers, too. From the point of view of EU standards, all of this needs to be closed down. Now, it's a fear of the SRS, that you, with this "lex specialis" law, which, in a legal sense, means nothing, can, tomorrow, through everything you've defined in a legal sense here, close everything because it doesn't fit the standards and it's not in line with all sorts of things. I can tell you that it's crazy for you to say here and boast that foreign investment in the country is the most in the region, which is commendable, but no sentence about how much our economy invests, how many domestic citizens who have companies, how much they invest? They don't invest anything. Why? A huge, mostly financial crisis. What does it come from? From a banking system that's been transferred to state institutions. The state sells securities of value and government and banks do not work, banks and businesses do not work. You understand that. Subsidised loans that were granted in 2009-2010 worth over two billion euros, in the short term 99%, only 1% is long-term – 12 million in 2009 and 17 million in 2010. These are long-term investments where the state participated. How much could the economic operators have invested and allocated funds for some long-term investments, for rebuilding machinery, equipment, devices, etc.? Almost nothing. That's what the employers' union tells you, that's what the Chamber of Commerce tells you, that's what the various groups in this area tell you. They ask for cry – give us some air, give, help, as all other states do, through the banking system. How can the banking system invest in such business entities that have equipment and devices over 30 years old? They won't invest. Why? Because it's safer for them to invest in the state by buying securities of value and blackmailing the state, getting mortgages on almost all state property. It's the essence of the banking system. Now, you see how you've brought the entire system into one captivity, one mortgage of the banking system. Now look – you say you will control technical regularity according to technical standards, regulations, and compliance with EU rules. How is that possible? What will be the consequences? No product will be able to satisfy what you have defined in Article 2 where you have set the objective: "The aim of this law is to ensure the use of products that meet the requirements regarding the safety and protection of life and the health of people, consumer protection, property protection, environment, health and safety at work and other aspects of public interest as well as to enable the free movement of goods without unnecessary restrictions." It's the essence of the law. Can we by standards with this technique and technology that we have to meet and one of these regulations? But our entire industry will be shut down at that moment. Who's going to work? The companies that are financed will work, whose owners are on the outside. Instruded companies. That seems to be the essence of this government. You want to destroy the domestic industry, it's already finished and destroyed, through privatisation, through an inadequate banking system, through an inadequate organisational system, etc. When we talk about measures, it is defined by Article 10, we have also invested certain amendments, but only in a few sentences to say what is the fear of the Serbian Radical Party in terms of applying the market surveillance measure. In paragraph 3, you said what the market surveillance authority would do. It says, "If necessary, market surveillance authorities can determine the destruction of products that pose a serious risk or determine how these products will be made unusable." No measure, no condition, when, when that market surveillance authority can determine the destruction of the product, etc. I guess what's harmful to the human organism, by the environment, by safety, it has to, I can't, it has to, but it has to be clearly defined by law. In these and these situations, the sea must, but you must say what these situations are and what are the conditions in order to destroy these products. Furthermore, when the inspection destroys, you know very well in the field of agriculture, in the veterinary field when a particular product in which a particular capital is invested is destroyed, what is the fate of a refunding the costs of the one to which the product has been destroyed? What are the objective reasons, what are the subjective reasons why it must be destroyed? Is that defined by law? No, not a single sentence, not a single letter, etc., etc. Now, as far as sanctions go, no sanctions. It is inconceivable that we do not have certain procedures, primarily the administrative procedures of the Ministry or the inspection, that we do not have any sanctions for anyone who violates, who does not fulfil what the order is, or we will apply the subsidiarity of what is prescribed by some other regulations where the condition and the manner of control is defined by an individual inspector. Minister, when you spoke about Lithuania, it is obvious that your presence at the basketball game prevents you from getting complete information about what happened to agriculture in Lithuania. Lithuania has been a wastelander of agricultural production until it enters the EU. Agriculture participation in Lithuania is 33%. Right now, it's 12%, and you clearly know why. The European Union's economic policy measures make it impossible for them to enter the European Union. You know clearly what a new member of agriculture who has entered the European Union, what they are when they are three years old, what they are when they are seven years old, what they are when they are ten years old, what are old members, what are new members, etc. It happened the same way with Hungary, it happened with Bulgaria, etc. They don't have any more agriculture. You understand that. It's only one type of investment, and what you're saying right now that Lithuania is investing in the same thing through subsidies to agriculture from its own sources, from the agrarian budget, that's what it says about your incompetence. Who forbids you to invest 5% of the budget, what peasant professional associations require, what the Chamber of Commerce requires, the various groups that are in that area? Who's defending you? Why don't you take the loans? As you take loans for infrastructure, take and fill the agrarian budget. Help the village. Help the peasant, bring back the citizens who don't work in the city now, get them back to the country. Give them credit systems, improve, train, create conditions for life in the country. Don't do this because it's an EU policy, it's the essence of the problem. Minister, this law is dysfunctional, it's legally inadmissible. He can't live like this in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, because in collaboration with many laws, you won't be able to apply him. Accept what we have proposed through the amendments, and this law is impossible, with our amendments and with all the suggestions we give you in this principle debate, we will not be able to fix the law, you will not be able to apply it. On the other hand, take care, we're talking about it. Serbia's economy lives and has to live and survive this crisis and create conditions for improvement. By this law and by the measures that after this, if you apply it, you will destroy this little business that lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63548	I give my word to Parliamentarian Sret Peric. You've got 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63549	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, as a member of the SRS, a party that has beautiful manners, which preserves tradition, loves its country, does not seek the enemies of the Serb people, and many of them are, we do not talk to those who wish to destroy it, we are not looking for a financier in Stanko Sutotic. You remember the book our president wrote in 2002, and the court sentenced him to six years. It suggests that they were right, that we have statesmen in our party who can predict the situation and point out how to behave. About that, when I thought about what first sentence to be about this law, to be polite, and to be understood by those who listen, I have to say that this law is extremely bad. If you had given full freedom to Mr Dimitrijevic, Mrs Despotovic and Mrs Stojanovic, I suppose as market participants, the ambience in which our businessmen work could write, but without some limitations, a much better law than you have offered us. I have one question for you, not just for you, but for someone who represents this government. Who gave you the right to lead us into political and economic isolation? I thought that time had passed, and Serbia's EU leadership in any case was to lead Serbia into economic and political isolation. The fact that 2% of the EU's budget is among the total budgets of those member states suggests that it is one supranational creation aimed at enslaveing the rest of the countries where they have found their co-workers and are heading towards it. I'm not going to be a team anymore, but I'm going to try to get you through the opportunities that are on the market to show that this law is absolutely pointless. You say - EU legal assets. With this law, we are trying to reach the EU's legal fluids. For us, we cannot make a better legal system than it is in EU member states? Here you are, when I say you mean the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, promoting the guillotine of regulations. After that, you make hastily some laws that do not apply at all. This is what they told you at the Agency implemented by the Republic Regional Development Agency, which is what small businesses, i.e. representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, say what are the biggest problems in the economy. So they say - bad legislation, lack of favourable sources of funding, insufficient information on new markets and technologies. This could now be provided somewhat in the area of agriculture of your 1,800 agronoms that have been employed, to know exactly what they need to produce. It's not worth it to us that the mayor of Leskovec was willing to donate his organs when his tomatoes were surrounded by two dinars. The Minister of Agriculture, it seems to me, at the time you were the Minister of Agriculture and you didn't create an ambience, you didn't lead to the preconditions that what our valuable agricultural producers produced could be placed. Inconsistencies with quality requirements. We're not saying we don't need to introduce quality standards, but this is how you started it's really nothing good. You know that in 2011, 60 million dinars were distributed in the first nine months, 362 companies were users of these loans, 40 million dinars were provided for 85 companies, for companies that have a rapid development of the so-called gazelle of around 17 million. It's too little to make a serious shift in the adjustment and that we could improve the standards and conditions of production and that we could part of what is predicted by this law could also respect. Here, standard Hasap. Hasap standard is introduced and appears on the service market and the mechanics and those people who are doing this part of the job seriously. But first of all, people who have small shops are obliged to pay, I don't know exactly what the amount is, whether it varies, has connections, and pay instead of inspections that already visit the owners, I'll show you the contract, the stores to show them how and how they need to modernize their business. Is it not enough for this country that owners of trade and other shops will pay sales tax or taxes on services? That should do it. At this point, our country, or administration, would have to be completely satisfied. You know that in the last year, every third owner of a small or medium-sized company has declared that he would prefer to shut down his company. I don't think anything special has changed lately, that it's a better situation. Fifty-three thousand companies and companies are in a blockade. Twenty-eight thousand that have come out of the VAT system in the last three years. Thirty-one thousand companies have shown a negative balance of the 2010 final account and 15 thousand enterprises are occasionally doing negative business. It's the ambience in which we are today, in which we are being attracted. We're talking about a law here that needs to regulate market surveillance. Given the title of the law, I expected a completely different solution. In Article 7, if I'm not mistaken, you've counted sectors, or ministries, which will have the right to control. There is no Boris Tadic here, Mirko Cvetkovic, Jelena from Culin, and then the situation would be quite clear. We'd have everything on the list that needs to be controlled. So far, the system of setting minimum technical conditions for the operation of certain actions has been able to solve all problems. No, we're headed for something else now. The examination of samples in trade stores is going on the burden of the owners of these shops. That's not good. It seems to me that some state institutions operate on the basis of what they're going to do, take samples, collect it, show that it's a product of good quality, and on condition that it's not a good quality if you do it in that economic entity that's a producer, and that makes sense. I suppose he should be responsible for the quality of the product, and the distributor, i.e. the seller, should guarantee, that he is behind the time limit, not the quality of the product. Product quality should be guaranteed by the manufacturer. Don't say that's not true now. I'll show you the invoice for that. So that's how it is. Do something for small businessmen. Do something for hundreds of thousands of people who may have gone out of need into that kind of work, not because they liked it the most, but because of the failure of large systems. No one can blame this authority for what has happened in the last three or four years, or for the last 10 years. We simply operate in such an environment that certain things were inevitable and they cannot be tied individually to any government. You got involved, at one point you said that the standard was slightly improved compared to the year 2000. I'll tell you what, it's not like that. In 2000, a pensioner had 1.75 employees. Isn't that right, Djuro? That's right. Now we have a situation that a pensioner is 1.21 employed with a tendency to reduce the number of employees. From 2009 to today in the public sector, in fact, what is recorded, which is not in the gray economy, business has lost 270 thousand people. It's official. Personally, I think it's an unofficially far larger number than that, because what's not recorded at the National Employment Service can't even be shown, can't be seen later. Now you're saying that your goal and ambition is to reach billions of euros, those we can withdraw when we get the candidacy. Some people still get those funds today. Here are two projects from around Ariel, one of which is the Aryllian raspberries, and the other one is raspberries across the border. I do not claim that it is entirely this amount, but for one project, the EU has singled out 750,000 euros for another 700,000 euros. The project's contractors should show raspberries producers that they have to wash their hands before entering their raspberries and do so during the day if they're about to eat, have breakfast. But they know it, they'll do it, but let's get this government and the state to give them some price that will be adequate for their work. Perhaps what they demand is sometimes not realistic but surely that what is paid to them is no longer real than what they want to accomplish. That's where the state has to play a very, very important role and a lot more. We are not saying that the state should establish economic conditions as a whole, but at some point if problems arise in a particular area where manufacturers, traders are not able, so exporters are unable to solve themselves. The state must act in a much better and more efficient way, not by sending your assistant who will promise them some solutions, and that will certainly not come to pass. In this very law, of course, there are some things that are completely illogical, completely indistinct, just as if they were written by someone who's enrolled in law school and should show what else they need to learn and what they know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63550	There are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, so before I conclude and ask if anyone who has not used their right to Article 96 has ever taken advantage of it. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? I see no one checked in, asking if Mr. Secretary wants to take part? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63551	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd start with a little comment on what was last said about the claim that there was legal non-violence, I even understood in the legal technical sense, the non-violence of the law. An impression that participants in the draft law, while it was a project and while the draft was being said, are otherwise delighted with the Belgrade Law Faculty department. They asked to be volunteers when the law was applied. So, of course, there are differences in views, but that's simply one attitude that people who live from it give to young people right here in Belgrade have shown when it comes to this law. The position, a very important economy that was shown during a public debate held during August of the month. A large number of businessmen, because this is not about products that are in the food industry, but not about food products, simply had one very large number of demands to increase the number of preventive controls, which is also the essence of this law, because then this reduces the number of these controls that are spoken of here, classic inspection controls that then have or do not have a repressive ending depending on whether they determine whether they are in breach of the material regulations. So, the legal science on the one hand, the economy on the other hand was very, very commendable when this law began and took part all the time in preparing the text that, when it passed an adequate procedure in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and then here in the Assembly of the Trade Committee, it came before you. Something about the law itself. Once again, to clarify one thing at the very beginning, which is also a legal nature, as these legal terms determine the subsidiarity rules, this is not a Lex specialis. This is a law that applies when no other law applies. All these other laws are listed in the explanation. These are more or less technical norms, technical laws that determine what is required to be fulfilled in the production of a certain type of industrial production so that one product can be found on the market. All these laws have passed this parliament, they have been adopted and these are the regulations that apply today in our country. I don't see that we have any particular problems because these laws apply, on the contrary. What changes when this law comes here and what changes and what changes will change if the law gets the support of parliament? I said something about that for a second. It's about coordination. First of all, it's about changing weights, that the state will primarily deal with preventive controls. So let me just say, it's not going to be about preventive controls on its own bag, but it's going to have to be a program a year ahead that these preventive controls are going to be done, so more or less those who are going to be subject to control will know that they're going to have control. You can't hide unless you produce a fan by technical standards or produce a car, here, in Kragujevac it should start production next year, if it's not according to technical standards. On the other hand, it won't be the Department of Trade or the Ministry of Environmental Protection that scares now the car manufacturer so he can use it as some way to achieve this or that interest that will suddenly come to the control plant. You don't come to industrial buildings by going to someone or finding them dealing with some unworthy, unsuitable things, such as making these industrial products against technical standards. In order to make the best possible coordination between a large number of ministries and other bodies and inspections within the Ministry of Public Interest, this law proposes to create certain mechanisms that the state should invest energy, which is the work of people who are competent and legally authorised and the money that this Assembly approves each year in the budget, to lead to the safety of citizens being raised to a higher level by the risk assessments, as it is said, which is by establishing pre-critical topics, situations, products, producers, that all of us as customers and as MPs, we all have a lower risk that something bad can happen to us when we buy a product in the store. It's a government job to protect people from having a negative effect when they buy an industrial product in a store for their money, regular and legal. That's the essence of this law. The European Union has certain mechanisms where this is established because the EU is primarily a market and the EU differs between Belgium and Luxembourg and Portugal, but there is no difference between the laws governing the market, because it is a common market, and the common market means that in Lisbon and Sofia, under the same conditions, you can safely buy products and know that this quality is the same. As far as this issue is concerned, what difference does it make whether we become a member of the EU the day after tomorrow or not? I guess it's good for Serbian citizens to have the same opportunities, the same opportunities to buy quality goods for their money, as well as to be in Madrid or wherever in Zagreb. Croatia will become an EU member next year. This is a law in the interest of citizens. When this law is won and this parliament is supported by people in Serbia, it will be much better because it will make them safer to receive the quality they have paid for their money. I think it's a thing that just can't be debated whether it's good or not. It's good. We can disagree with the policy of this or that, but that there is a quality market control in developed Western Europe and North America, I don't see any serious controversy here that we can lead. We want to be one of those countries. Don't get into anything else. We're very different, we're different, and we're different, it's not a topic. A few important things that are contained in this law, and then I'm going to say a little bit about all these important thesiss that were presented in the debate. A new system of giving conformity codes for industrial products is introduced. This is very important because in stores, when we see this sign that the Government will adopt in the legally established deadlines, and after the Ministry of Economy implement, we will be sure that we can get quality goods for our money. It's a new moment. It's been a topic of great debate for all this time, and I think it's very good that as a country we enter into this kind of standardisation because it's preventive protection. Anyone who abuses it will suffer great punishments. They are not prescribed by this law, but they are prescribed by other laws and this legal dilemma to remove. This law provides for certain types of sanctions, but all sanctions provided for by other laws remain in force, so that the subsidiary application of this law opens up some new possibilities unless these other laws have provided for it or if there is some contradiction between them. Of course, it is very important that we have a fully regulated situation when new products enter the market, whether they are native or from imports. When they are of import origin then customs has a role to play. When they're of domestic origin, all those in charge, competent to monitor the situation of the standardisation thing, they'll have nothing to say about it. About coordination, I said, the government is under obligation when the law is made to set up a council within a very short period of time that will co-ordinate fully over all competent authorities, to make mandatory decisions that will have a binding character. To get back to the very beginning, the bottom line is that we have as much prevention as we can in medicine -- as much prevention, as little treatment and less pathology. That's right here, the more prevention, the less trouble we're going to have with all the kinds of products that we're dealing with here. The controversy over the benefits and damages or the greater and smaller benefits of bringing the EU country closer is one good controversy and I think it is always the best possible light to do so. Everyone gives the best possible arguments. The association and stabilisation agreement that caused the big storm when adopted, gave a rather difficult prediction of what would happen, now that agriculture, which is always the most vulnerable and nutritious industry, we have never had more exports than in 2010. So, when the agreement came into force, when customs began to decrease, in 2010, Serbia's exports amounted to 2.2 billion dollars, surplus over a billion dollars. Is that enough? No matter what, we can increase agricultural production multiple times. Is that more than it was before the Association and Stabilisation Agreement was adopted? When the agreement was in the congregation, some predicted that we would stop doing agricultural production. It's not like we stopped. We got more competitive. Of this 2.2 billion, it goes to the EU – Germany, France, Italy. In 2011, exports will be significantly increased compared to 2010 which was best. Serious production in the processing industry is being exported. Serbia today is a country that, together with France, has the best soy processing industry in Europe. Investments made in sugar candies in recent years have led to some of the Serbian sugars being the best in this part of Europe. So we're not just exporting raw materials. We export the products of the processing industry. Our shipping industry, with all the trouble it's been having, has a very serious 50 million dollar export. The juice industry, I want to share it with you and the citizens, the juice industry last year 40 million dollars, the beer industry 50 million euros. Everything after the entry into force of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, where customs duties are reduced year after year, and the less customs duties we export, the more and more foreign trade surpluses we achieve in agricultural and food products. Well, there's no reason, no one in Europe makes better oil than in Serbia, and nobody makes better sugar than in Serbia, and nobody makes any better cakes than in Serbia. Well, we don't have a competition problem. Why does anyone underestimate our abilities? Who do we have to be afraid of when it comes to agriculture and the food industry? They're coming, that's why they're investing money in Serbia. They invest money in Serbia, they all invest, and domestic money businesses in Serbia, and there's no dilemma that one major part of the economy has problems, and these are things that are related to liquidity, with a lot of serious issues in the banking sector, which I'm not talking about right now, and these are the things that Greece is fighting for today, fighting Italy, fighting Portugal, which has now entered the general strike. Everyone's fighting it. The countries in Eastern Europe are fighting, and it's not easy and easy for them. Some large countries have great raw materials potential and large exports, cannot end in a serious way, to enter industrialization. Everyone's got their own problems. China has its problems, and everyone solves their problems and Serbia solves its problems. The fact is that around Lithuania, of course they have a smaller share today in the agricultural production of GDP than they had before, because they have tremendously increased the total GDP, so the increase in agriculture has not arrived. I say it would be good for Serbia as Lithuania to get a billion euros. You can say that's not good. Again, it'd be good. If we were in the EU today, we would have not a billion, but more than a billion euros, plus the agricultural budget, and the agricultural budget, as well as the total budget, will be discussed here very quickly, by the New Year, and before that we will have serious talks in the government. We have serious plans for agriculture, so I think we'll be very happy to share it here with you. It's a very important thing. As the Food Safety Act did not lead to the disposal of slaughterhouses, milkers, bakers, so this law will not lead to the closure of the Serbian industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63552	Gentlemen, I'm really sorry, but the Prime Minister's incentive is not necessary at all. He's very specific about it. I understand your need, but there's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63553	Thank you. I want to thank you for opening this topic, because it must be a fearsome number of citizens. There is no reason for anyone to worry, nor for honourable MPs, nor for any citizen of Serbia. Nothing bad will happen when this law is passed. On the contrary, it will be like this Association and Stabilisation Agreement, lower customs, larger exports. This will lead to us opening another gate for investors and domestic and foreign. Domestic investors also invest serious money this year in Serbia, as foreign investors invest. At the very end, I will invite you to give your voice to this good law when the voting day comes, because it protects all of us as citizens, that your money with greater certainty, always has the risk of things not being good, with greater certainty we will get quality, because we will reduce the risks of bad goods being on the market. This isn't gonna get anyone who's correct and good to shut down their factory. On the contrary, this law opens up even greater investment opportunities. Investment means new factories. New factories mean new jobs. That's the most important thing for Serbia right now. We'll see each other once there's been a debate on the amendments, and I'm happy to have that debate with you, as we did today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63554	And it's been a pleasure, Mr. Minister, to have you on this agenda today. I am concluding a principled review of the proposal for a market surveillance law. We move to the next item of the agenda, the joint principled review on the draft health law on general application, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Biocidal Products and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that on the occasion of a joint principled search of the 7, 8th and 9th agenda, I have called for today's session in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Prof. Zoran Stankovic, Minister of Health, to attend the primaryirium of Dr. Elizabeth Paunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Prof. Dr. Marija Jeftic, Assistant Minister of Health. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda under points 7, 8 and 9, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP; MP Zoran Bortic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Dusanka Plecevic, MP of the SRS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the Proposal for a Law on the Health Rightness of General Use, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act. Does the representative of Proposer Dr Zoran Stankovic, the health minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63555	Gentlemen, allow me to present in the shortest lines the draft health law of the subject of general use. The importance of the adoption of health law on general application is that it provides a high level of protection of human life and health and protection of consumers' interests. The health regularity of the subject of general use and its rational and efficient supervision as part of the harmonisation of national legislation with international regulations and standards is a significant priority of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed legislative solution allows for the harmonisation of this area for EU legislation, but also increases health security in the use of general use cases with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Under the articles of general use within the meaning of this Act, the following shall include: dishes, accessories, devices, packagings and other materials that come into contact with food, toys, items intended for children and children, cosmetic products, cosmetic products with special purpose and packaging for the packing of these products, articles that come in direct contact with skin or mucous membranes, facial or body decorations, for piercing, imitation of jewelry and other. The adoption of this law will comprehensively regulate the relevant aspects of the health conditions that must be met by the general application of the general use intended for human use. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the National Integration Programme, the Action Plan to fulfil the paralytics of the European Commission's 2010 annual report to speed up candidate status, which provides for the Ministry of Health to determine the draft general application law by the end of the third quarter of 2011. The reasons are also the new solutions contained in the Food Safety Act, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 41/09", which has put out force the Law on the Health Rightness of Lifetime Foods and Subjects of General Use and the Health Control Act on Lifetime Foods and Subjects. At present, the area of health and general use is regulated in a certain way through several laws, and this is: the Law on the Health Rightness of Lifetime Foods and Subjects of General Use "The Official Journal of the SFRJ, No 53/91, 24/91, 28/96 and 37/02", "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, No 79/05 and 101/05, which ceases to be valid on the date of entry into force of this Act; the Law on Health Control of Lifetime Foods and Subjects of the General Use "The Official Messenger of the SRS, No 48/77, 29/78, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No 44/91, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94 and 101/105, which ceases to apply on the date of entry into force of this Act; the Sanitary Supervision Act, the Law on Standardisation, the Law on Technical Requirements, the Products and the Assessment of Consens, the Generality of Product Safety and Consumers. The health correctness of the subject general use implies correctness in relation to the declaration, composition, seasonal properties, type and content of harmful substances, microbiological correctness and, as a result, prevents adverse effects on human health and especially on the environment. Scientific knowledge relating to the area of action of a series of harmful substances on human health develops every day. All modern approaches that allow the application of these knowledge are applied in this law and will be incorporated into a series of sublegal acts which will precisely determine the limits of the permitted influences in such a way as to exclude or reduce to the least possible negative impacts on human health. It should be pointed out in particular that the existing Law on the Health Rightness of Lifetime Foods and General Uses and Regulations for its Implementation were adopted in 1991. And as such, they require changes in line with new knowledge and the need to comply with new scientific knowledge in international norms as well as with EU legislation. The basic objective of adopting this law is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, which is often expressed as a syntagma – protection of interest and consumer rights, including the principle of honesty and security in the way in which the traffic of objects of general use is regulated, but certainly also criminal provisions for those who do not respect the provisions of these laws. By adopting a health law on general application, conditions will be created for a better and more efficient approach to control and monitoring of the health regularity of the case of general use and the relevant obligations and responsibilities of the entities in the business of general use will be more clearly established. The concept of this law establishes a traceability system which is viewed through the possibility of monitoring the subject of general use through all stages of production, processing or transport. Because of all this, this law is compatible with the laws that I have stated. Its construction required close cooperation of health professionals with environmental, chemical safety, food safety, trade and services specialists. One section of adoption and subsequent application of this law will allow the establishment of a system of rapid notification and fulfillment to improve the exchange of information on risks related to general use cases. In this way, policymaking in this area will focus on key problems, and reacting to the occurrence of threats to the health correctness of general use cases will be much faster. The decision proposed in the health law on general application will affect the needs of more responsible work and the functioning of all entities in the business of general use, use of a legal person, entrepreneur or natural person. It is important to note that, following the adoption of this law, conditions will be created for the establishment of a self-control system, which provides for the health regularity of the subject-matter in all stages of production and transport, by applying the principles of good manufacturing and hygiene practices, as well as an analysis of the risks and control of critical control points. It is particularly important to point out that this way of production, in addition to guaranteeing the safety of our consumers, will allow the competitiveness of goods produced in the Republic of Serbia and the international market. The significant objective that this law aims to achieve is to create normative and legal conditions for more effective supervision of competent authorities in law enforcement. The health law of the subject of general application proposes the adoption of appropriate sublaws within six months of the date of entry into force of this law and refers to the health regularity of the dishes, accessories, facilities, appliances, packaging for food, toys, cosmetic products, cosmetic products with special purpose, packaging for packaging of products, certain items that come into direct contact with the skin or mucous membranes, face and body decorations, for piercing, imitation of jewelry and the like. The adoption of the law stimulates the improvement of technical conditions, both existing facilities and the emergence of new economic operators in the business of general use that meets the requirements laid down by law. As I have already pointed out, the text of a proposal for this law today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the result of good inter-sectoral co-operation, which was a condition without which it cannot be governed by such complex matter. For this reason, before you today, honourable Members of the people have proposed two more laws to protect the environment. In 2009, the Chemical Act and the Biocidal Products Act were adopted, which created the basis for a completely new regulation of the area and the placing on the market of chemicals and biocidal products. The main objective of the adoption of the Chemical and Biocidal Products Act was to establish and improve a single system in the creation of chemicals and biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to ensure a high level of protection of human health, the environment, as well as to improve the free transport of chemicals, biocidal products with EU countries and other countries, ensuring the competitiveness of the economy and fostering the development of safer alternatives. The main reason for the adoption of amendments and additions to these two laws is to improve the effectiveness of inspection supervision of the application of the Chemical Act and the Biocidal Products Act, as well as the rules adopted on the basis of them, which gives rise to the signing of the powers to carry out inspection supervision of the sanitary inspectors, as well as to the clearer definition of the powers of inspectors. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law are in line with EU rules, and they also essentially do not change the policy of making chemicals defined in the Chemical Act, but only supplement them. The Chemical Act and the Biocidal Products Act are regulated, inter alia, classification, packaging, labelling of chemicals and biocidal products, restrictions and prohibitions of production, placing on the market and use of chemicals and biocidal products, imports and exports of certain dangerous chemicals, placing on the market of detergents. This law also covers detergents, certain products intended for general use and means of maintaining general hygiene, which have now been subject to the provisions of the Law on the Health Rightness of Foods and General Use. Since sanitary inspectors have supervised the application of the Health Safety Law and the general application of the articles of use, this is because of their knowledge and experience in the area of general hygiene retention means, in general, to be included in the exercise of controls and in the application of rules determining the classification, packaging, marking, restriction and banning of production, the placing on the market and use of chemicals and biocidal products, as well as the supervision of the application of the rules governing biocidal products. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I expect these three laws that are in the package before you today to be adopted. I am prepared to listen to your constructive discussion in principle, and later in proposing amendments, and to accept any constructive suggestions that will contribute to the health security of the subject of general use and improve the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63556	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, your associates, the Honorable Madam Chairman, we are definitely approaching today's debate by completing the legal acts that are being arranged and providing a comprehensive system of health protection in our country. We are sure that this set of laws will comprehensively regulate the most important aspects of all the conditions that are the basis for health regulation which must be met by the subjects of general purposes provided for human use, but also by other subjects, as well as food. One of the most important tasks of the Republic of Serbia is to establish a final regulation through all competent authorities, precisely in the highly organised and efficient protection of the health of its population, and above all through standards on the regularity of the subject, through standards of protection of the use of biocidal products and through a special standard of health protection using chemicals. The proposal for a health law on general application, certainly has the task of bringing together more laws dealing with the issue of the use of various subjects, as well as issues of rational and effective supervision of these cases, to prevent any threat to the health of our population. Let us just remind ourselves that so far, eight laws have regulated the issue of the health order of general use, which certainly caused different approaches, both standardisation and technical requirements and control procedures for general use items. We are also obliged to remind our public that the health issues of living goods and life-saving surveillance issues have so far been regulated through the general issues related to the national integration programme, and all in agreement with the action plan to meet the priorities of the European Commission's annual report. This draft law once again provides evidence that laws are not exclusively passed and only to speed up the status of EU candidates, but, above all, to regulate relations, responsibilities and standards and the needs of our country and our citizens in this so important matter, such as the health protection of citizens. The priority of harmonising our legislation in the field of health regulation of general use, for rational and effective supervision, is to ensure that international regulations and standards are fully aligned with the regulations and standards of our country which so far is in technical, technological, scientific and other standards show a serious and illicit degree of lagging behind. It seems to us that this law will also affect that this degree of lagging overcomes, or improves our relationship in these standards. This law regulates the conditions that general human use purposes for human use are to be met in terms of health care, but also in cases which are imported into Serbia and exported to other countries. The law lays down the conditions for effective supervision of the general application of the general application of the case but also specify the obligations and responsibilities of all entities in the business of general use and purposes. The law lays down, to a significant extent, all obligations and responsibilities, both on raw materials and additives for the production of general uses, as well as on all items which are temporarily imported for processing, processing and processing, as semi-factories or in the finished product. We remind above all of the professional and economic structure in the area of production and transport of objects of general purpose, that this law really provides an extremely high level of protection and responsibility for the lives and health of people and the protection of consumers' interests. General purposes and uses such as dishes, accessories, devices, packaging, materials that come into contact with food, children's toys, cosmetic products, packaging for food and cosmetics, as well as all materials that come into contact with skin and mucous membranes, various imitations, these laws are put into high degree of control with clear control actions in which there can be no failure and how they could affect the health of children and other citizens. Our citizens and our public should know that this law raises the level of responsibility for all subjects of general use that could in any way work on the health of all citizens. Each product shall have a declaration, and the declaration under criminal responsibility shall correspond to what is declared therein. Each product shall have its own period of use and must be respected, regardless of any declared seasonal properties which must not be changed due to physical, chemical, microbiological or any other processes. The PUPS Group estimates that this law has made a major shift, in that it now obliges manufacturers and traffickers that the subject of the general purpose must not, in its own form, design or when using it, pose any danger to the health of children and people. It is particularly important that the law eliminates any possibility that objects contain substances or ingredients that are not permitted, which may adversely affect human health. It is important for us to define the content of micro-organisms in a number greater than allowed or in a number of harmful to human health. It is particularly important that this law defines the quality, matter, packaging that is in contact with food, which can no longer release any material that could affect human health or which could alter the sensory properties of food and objects from general use. We oblige the competent ministry to very strictly regulate the issue of radionucleotide content within the permitted limits, as well as the measures to prevent pollution by any physical processes which could be harmful to human health or which could, to the least, lead to product reluctance. It is particularly important to us that this law strictly prohibits the regulation of medicinal properties by general use and in particular we support the absolute ban on untrue advertising on general use items in any advertising way that our citizens, consumers can be deluded into in terms of real composition, real property and the real purpose of these products. We particularly support a solution that raises the level of responsibility of authorised national laboratories to criminal responsibility. The PUPS Group supports this law because it obliges all participants in the system of production, control and transport of products for general purposes, and in particular in the elimination of potential risks to human health and the environment, by obliging them to take emergency measures, such as temporary marketing bans, the determination of specific conditions for the handling of general use items, the temporary measure of the prohibition of imports of general objects, as well as the setting of specific conditions for handling in case of need. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. The draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act was also adopted in May 2009. At that time, we were pleased with our parliamentary group that this law introduced a quality and new way of putting a single system on the market and the use of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We are sure that at that time a high level of protection of human health and the environment is ensured, but also a far better quality system of free transport of biocidal products with all the countries of the world and the EU, and we were particularly pleased that proper expert supervision of the application of this law has been provided. This law was also important at the time because of the first and basic regulation of the issues of production, control and transport of general hygiene. But then we knew, and it has now been confirmed, that the law must go through a rigorous procedure to comply with our regulations with EU rules. The SAA between us and the EU, as well as the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between us and the EU, implies the harmonisation of all regulations, including this. The Chapter of freedom of movement of goods, then quantitative restrictions between Member States, common rules on competition and strict compliance with the Directives governing the issue of production, control and transport of biocidal products, have indicated only the need to amend and supplement laws in order to increase the effectiveness of inspection supervision of the application of this law on biocidal products, but also the mandatory controls of the rules adopted on the basis of it, which is achieved by a new legislation in the area of authority to carry out inspection and with a sanitary inspector, in addition to other inspectors, with a clear definition of the authorised inspector. It's very good to have a health inspector in this whole procedure. We think it's a good thing that, when the basic law was passed, a small number of failures were made, first of all, in the area of establishing a list of active substances contained in a biocidal product of minor risk and in the elimination of negative lists, as well as so-called. positive lists, which will now have a positive impact on greater and more fundamental responsibility in the production, control and handling of biocidal products. Legal technical regulations of the previous law are the least of the problems, and they will not make any financial burden on legal entities and entrepreneurs, but will force them and protect them from possible failures of the importers themselves. The PUPS parliamentary group is aware that supervision of the application of the rules can only be regulated by law, so it will support its adoption in the voting day. The draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act is also in the process of controlling the compliance of our technical regulations and standards with EU regulations and standards, and thus the whole world, and it has been assessed as a law that we recently adopted that with a lot of good content and a lot of good solutions. Unfortunately, we can only now admit that in the making of the rules on chemicals in the whole process they were unsuccessful in ensuring the participation of all the necessary consultants, which will now be corrected by amendments and additions to the Law. The chemical law process has brought together co-operation with experts from the Swedish Chemicals Agency and has received recommendations on what Serbia should benefit from Regulation (EC) 1907/2006. Perhaps Serbia's technical and technological potential at that time could not be fully able to bear the responsibility arising from the Regulation regarding registration, evaluation, authorisation and all restrictions on the transport of chemicals through the Chemical Act. We warn the ministry that the European Parliament's decision requires registration of substances contained in preparations produced or in most cases imported into our country and in quantities exceeding one tonne per year. We understand that the product registration is very expensive, because it implies making an expensive technical file and an expensive report on the safety of chemicals, because the product is exposed to a strict laboratory examination and control of experts who are authorized to produce a safety report on chemicals, and it is very expensive in itself. The fact is, we've had a similar obligation so far. Notifications of substances, and through this process, about 4,000 chemicals are present as a risk to humans and animals and to the environment, which is a very large number. The new mandatory registration of substances of chemicals will be phased out, first with the most dangerous substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to further reproduction and then to substances that will occur in the market in smaller quantities and with a far lower degree of risk. The PUPS Group will support all your efforts to establish and implement this control. We as a parliamentary group are not too pleased that we will not immediately implement a new prescribed obligation to register substances, but only to report chemicals with basic data on inventory of chemicals. It is good that, for once in Serbia, domestic economic operators involved in the production and transport of chemicals will be mapped, and we propose, in the interest of citizens of Serbia, children and adults, environmental protection, to allow and implement the process of full chemical registration as soon as possible, with the full security of training and future obligations of registered entrepreneurs. We support the urge to start authorizing as soon as possible and to start making lists of substances that cause concern, because this list would therefore represent an adequately controlled and safely used chemical product. We support Serbia's insistence to take measures of strict control of the production, packaging and transport of chemical products in good time, as well as all measures to find adequate methods to replace chemical substances, so-called. safer alternative means. The ministry must commit itself to drawing up a plan to replace chemical substances that cause concerns with less dangerous substances. As with previous law on biocidal products, and in this law, amendments and additions aim to significantly increase the effectiveness of inspection supervision of the application of the Chemical Act but also to implement new rules that must be adopted on the basis of these amendments and additions. In addition to existing inspection supervision, it is good to introduce a sanitary inspector with a high degree of authority and a clear definition of all powers and tasks. The PUPS Group supports the introduction of a sanitary inspector, both because of their knowledge and experience in the overall surveillance of this matter and because of the good application of regulations governing the classification, packaging, marking, restrictions and ban on production, the ban on the use of certain chemicals. We are aware of the fact that the amendment and addition of the Law does not affect the quality and essential solutions of the Chemical Act, as well as the fact that the basic principles of strict European rules in the field of chemicals and the fact that all conditions for the transport of chemicals must be regulated as necessary, while reliably determining the impact of chemicals on human health and the environment. In that case, in the voting day, we will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63558	Thank you. I give my word to MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63559	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, a set of laws we are discussing today are not only normative standardisation of the rules that the Republic of Serbia is harmonising with EU rules, but, in my opinion, it opens up a normative space for the provision of legal legislation that will allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live by high standards. In other words, these laws ensure that standards are introduced in the market conditions of liberal capitalism that will, on the one hand, sanction the natural desire of entrepreneurs to make profits, and on the other hand, allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia conditions for normal life under such social circumstances. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Health Justice Act of the General Use is contained in Article 97(10). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the field of health. The proposed legislative solution seeks to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health and to protect consumers' interests. In addition to the fact that national legislation is in line with international regulations and standards, the essence and priority of this legislative solution is to regulate the correctness of the case and to ensure their effective supervision. This will ensure security for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who use these items. In addition, the law will comprehensively regulate health conditions that must be subject to general application and which are used daily by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important for these legal solutions to be governed by the conditions of health law which must be met by the items intended for human use which are produced in the Republic of Serbia or by imports or exports. The legal solutions offered provide conditions for effective control of the health care of the subject of general use. In addition, these solutions are closer to regulating the conditions for effective supervision to be carried out by health care professionals on the subject of general use. At the same time, and in my opinion this is very important, the responsibility of the operators who place the products on the market and sell the items of general use is determined. Proposed legal solutions remove problems that have created difficulties in current legal practice. It should be recalled that the regulations that regulated this practice have been passed far away in 1991 and have become obsolete in many segments, especially because of the fact that they needed to be brought into line with EU legislation. In other words, the adoption of this law provides for a high level of protection of people's life and health, including in this principle of honesty and security in the transport of objects of general use. In short, the adoption of this law will create conditions for a more quality and efficient approach to control and monitor health and general use. The law will regulate the obligations and responsibilities of entities in the business of these subjects and the establishment of a traceability system that will enable full monitoring of all stages of production, processing and transport of general use cases, as well as ensuring conditions for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and other users of the subject-matter to be protected. In this way, policymaking in this area will sanction all potential problems and eliminate the dangers in the health order of general use cases. The particularly significant objective to achieve this law is to create normative conditions for effective supervision of competent authorities in the realisation of these issues. Dear fellow Members of the People, the basic reason for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Biocidal Products Act is to increase the efficiency of inspection supervision of the application of the Biocidal Products Act. In addition, these amendments achieve more effective control of the application of the rules adopted under this law, which is achieved by prescribing the authority to carry out inspection controls. This surveillance is carried out by defining the work of sanitary inspectors and by more clearly defining the authority of inspectors. The proposed amendments and additions to the Biocidal Production Act are not touched in the essence of the resolution of the law mentioned. In other words, the proposed amendments and additions are closer to regulating the obligations of sanitary inspectors in the control process of the application of the rules governing biocidal products. It should be recalled that these changes and additions are not deviating from the solutions given for this area in the EU's regulatory framework. The basic problem proposed by the law is to address the issue of the expertise and qualifications of the sanitary inspectors. The aim of this law is to establish, maintain and improve a single system of management of biocidal products in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, as well as to improve the free circulation of biocidal products with EU countries and other countries, but I would especially like to emphasise, the aim of the legal solutions offered is to provide adequate expert supervision of the application of this law. Dear fellow MPs, the 2009 Chemical Law, introduced a new unique way of managing chemicals in our country. This way is in line with EU rules and ensures a high level of protection of human health and the environment. It also provides for improved free transport of chemicals with EU countries, but also other countries. The law also provides adequate professional supervision of the application of legal standards, i.e. control of the use and use of chemicals on the EU market and other countries. This law regulates, inter alia, all products intended for general use. However, due to its effectiveness, the need to adopt amendments and additions to the Chemical Act and the regulations adopted pursuant to it has been imposed. The amendments and additions of legal solutions offered are prescribed by the powers to carry out inspection supervision and the work of sanitary inspectors, as well as the precision and definition of their powers. The Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act does not question the solutions given in the Chemical Act. In other words, amendments and additions shall be specified legal terms and sanitary inspectors shall be introduced in the control procedure of the application of the rules governing chemicals. Therefore, the basic principle of European rules in the field of chemicals remains. These regulations regulate the conditions for the placing on the market of chemicals as a product, i.e. the impact of chemicals on human health and their environment. The main objective of these legislative changes is to establish and maintain, but also to improve a single chemical management system in our country's territory. Legal changes aim to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment. The objective of amending and supplementing the Law is to improve the free circulation of chemicals with EU countries and other countries and, in particular, professional supervision of the application of the proposed legal solutions. Due to these goals, which will allow the Republic of Serbia better conditions for life and its citizens, the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will maintain all three of the laws mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63560	Thank you, Mr. Bortic. I give my word to the MP, Mrs Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in a united debate we are talking about three laws. There are two amendments and additions to the law, it is the Biocidal Products Act and the Chemical Act and one new law, it is the proposal for a health law on the general application of the case. This third law worked with the Ministry of Health, because the health correctness of the subject of general use belongs to the public health sector. Although it is imperative for the adoption of this law to protect consumer health and to comply with existing laws that treat this area, as we have heard on the Health and Family Committee from members of the Ministry of Health, we believe that the law is proposed less because of the fact that the Law on the Health Rightness of Life Meals and Subjects of General Use and the Law on Health Control of Lifetime Foods and General Uses and more in order to meet the priorities set out in the European Commission Report in order to speed up the status of Serbia's EU candidate. This, by the way, is an explanation for the passing of this law. This cannot possibly be a reason for supporting this law for the SRS parliamentary group. In addition, there are other reasons why we cannot vote for this bill. First, the law is not comprehensive, does not cover the overall interest of citizens and consumers. Secondly, it does not care about the quality of the subject of general use, but only observes one aspect of regularity, which is health. The quality of a product is closely related to its health. Although some other subjects are more responsible for the quality of the product, this aspect should also be dealt with by this law, because poor quality also causes bad effects on human health. Thirdly, it does not cover all or most of the cases with which citizens usually come in contact. Fourthly, it is adopted to comply with EU legislation, not to be able to apply it immediately, given the deadline given for completion through the legal act and its introduction into life within two years. The plan of this bill, according to the SRS parliamentary group, is to give major powers to the minister. Even 13 seats in the law, numbering 54 members, are given the authority of the minister to prescribe sublegal acts to define the procedures for its implementation, which may lead to a change in the essence of some legal provisions. The law, by the way, has 290 pages, of which the members of the law itself belong to 16 pages. These are fundamental objections to the law, which are why it cannot be supported by the SRS parliamentary group. What is, in our opinion, a priority for citizens is not the adoption of a law that will start to apply within three years, but rather the reform of the health system in Serbia through the adoption of reform laws in the area of health, which will contribute to better human health and a better position and treatment of health workers, and we have been waiting for them since 2002. Health reform has left only promises, although one of the same parties has been headed by the ministry for ten years now. It's a G17 plus party and no one bothered her to implement the reform. The excuse that systemic laws cannot be passed now because of the elections ahead, there is no justification or avoidance of responsibility for the state of health, even though the party has camouflaged a new name, the United Regions of Serbia. A very poor situation in our health, burdened by a poor organisation, even worse equipment, corruption, nepotism and, consequently, by the chronic lack of individual professional staff, cannot be corrected by the priority adoption of a health law on general use. Will this law help reduce the burning problem in Serbia, the increased mortality of chronic diseases? It has even increased infant mortality since 2008. I do not believe that this is caused by cosmetic products, pyrsing and other items for decorations of the face and body or plastic bottles, cups, tooth rodents for babies and young children. A recently completed census of the population, which, by the way, was incomplete because it was not completed on 15% of the territory, which is KIM territory, carried out in the light of the day devastating data for the 10-year period of DOS rule in various variants. Less 377,335 people are registered according to official statistics. The reason is not only the age structure of the population and the eviction of the most common young people to other countries, but also the most mentioned chronic non-infectious diseases that are on the rise. Instead of the health law that will regulate this area for the benefit of patients and employees, the government is sending us proposals of laws such as these or making cosmetic changes to existing laws through frequent changes and additions, creating a vision that significant positive developments are taking place in our health, especially as regards the extension of the rights of healthcare users. We are discussing a law that certainly is not a priority for our citizens, and also for the public to talk about it, to focus citizens' attention on various affairs, such as vaccines against swine flu and others, to put it in a different way or to forget about them. The adoption of this law, as we heard from the Minister of the Health and Family Committee, when a three-month report on the work of the Ministry of Health was discussed, will also benefit from the funds that will be pooled into the budget. This benefit cannot be greater than the damage suffered by the state due to various affairs. Let me just mention this affair with vaccines against swine flu, and the possible consequences of human health, because there wasn't enough time to test that vaccine, I'm not even talking. Because of this state of health and the inherent economic consequences of the budget, we don't have the adoption of systemic health laws. This law will be difficult to implement in the light of the equipment of the laboratory and the chronic lack of substances used in the sample study, although most of the cost of sampling will be borne by operators in the transport of general use. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, you cited, quote: "The adoption of this law will not cause an increase in costs in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Doing jobs to implement this law will not cause an increase in the number of employees and the purchase of new equipment." Does this mean that Serbia is at such a technological level of development that it can examine laboratoryly without new equipment and samples of objects that we import, such as nanoparticles, dangerous to human health? I do not believe that we are at such a technological level of development, and the introduction of these particles into general use is an increasingly common phenomenon in some technologically developed countries. In products of general use which will be subject to the control of their health care, you shall also list the dishes and packaging that comes into contact with food, toys and items intended for children and children, cosmetic preparations and their packaging and other items for the decoration of the face and bodies that come into contact with skin and mucous membranes. It is not known to the public that so far studies have been carried out in Serbia for children's toys and objects intended for infants and children from imports, such as their toxicity, as was done in other countries. We learn from the general use test for children in these countries that they contain substances that can be harmful to health, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, PAU, which improves the taste of toys and objects that children put into their mouths or other dangerous ingredients, such as metals, lead, arsenic, cadmium. Is it possible that in the market for developed Western countries there are so many children's toys and products intended for babies and young children who contain toxic substances and not in Serbia? It is mainly or exclusively about products from imports. We're bringing in a new one, and we don't know if the current law that was completed in 2005 has been consistently applied to this type of testing. These ingredients are potential inducers of carcinogenic diseases, liver disease, diabetes, slow child growth and others. The packaging in which the food is sold contains BPA chemical used to produce plastic packaging for food and drink, to cover the inside of cans containing food, to produce CDs, DVDs, plastic frames for glasses and many other plastic products. Some countries of Europe and the world, such as Denmark, France, Canada, Australia, have banned the sale of bottles for babies containing this chemical substance, because it is suspected that it can affect the development of the child, the immune system and the formation of tumors. This chemical is normally released when the food is heated, which is packed in plastic containers for the microwave oven. There are other synthetic polymers, such as polyvinyl chloride, known as PVC, which is found in dolls or toothpicks for children. It may cause liver, kidney damage, allergic reactions, asthma, autoimmune diseases and cancer. As I said at the outset, this law does not cover objects that citizens usually contact. These are some home appliances, furniture, audiovisual appliances. It's an example of a cell phone. This technological invention of wireless communication, the subject of general use that comes into direct contact with the skin and is not harmless to human health. It has been imposed through mass media as the necessary need of a modern-day man in the function of consumer ideology. They all have atest technical correctness to find themselves on the market, but can they have an atest of health correctness? It is likely that such a regulation does not exist, but they act harmfully on people’s health by broadcasting radio waves, ultra-high or ultra-low frequencies to which man is exposed when he uses them, and even when he does not use them directly, and is in his vicinity. This applies otherwise to all products, products of technological progress that have occurred in mass use through which wireless communication is taking place. For example, wireless fixed phones, wireless computers, TV cameras and other objects like microwave ovens. Radio waves that emit a mobile phone disrupt the function of brain cells, or its electromagnetic vibrations that form an immune system. The organism defends itself from these waves by trying to eliminate them by exhausting its immune system, especially with multi-hour phone calls during the day. There are already visible consequences of using a wireless communication apparatus. They are presented through research done in some countries. The cumulative fact of radio waves on the body of humans, as well as on all living things, is manifested after several years by various illnesses, increased number of brain tumors, nerve-cell damage, the mental incompetence of adolescents, because they mostly use these objects, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease and so on. It is particularly harmful for children, because they are located in an intense period of growth and development, to use mobile phones and spend more hours on a computer. These dangers are well - known in many lands. For example, Russian scientists recommend that children under 18 use mobile phones only in exceptional situations, and the French health minister, for example, advised children not to be allowed more than six minutes of conversation a day in 2008. An alarming record of some research into the effects of these waves that have been done in the world. So for example, every hour of using these objects is equivalent to the amount of radiation after 66.6 lung X-ray scans. These data were presented in research by scientists from seven European countries in a project called "Reflects". The project was built between 2000 and 2004. It was funded by the EU, costing threem euros. I do not know if similar research has been done with us, since in Serbia, mobile phones have been in mass use for 15 years. In any case, it wouldn't hurt to have these items, because they're intended for general use, put a warning that their excessive use harms health, as is the case in cigarette boxes, for example. The SRS parliamentary group has given an amendment to Article 3 where we have also counted these items over which, in our opinion, we need to carry out a health inspection. We have tabled a total of 10 amendments to the bill in order to improve the proposed text. I'll just mention some, for example. Article 7 which speaks of what subject of general use is considered to be medically invalid, then amendments relating to the information of users of the subject to general use when their health failure is established, that is, Article 13, or Article 42, which speaks of emergency measures taken when general use subjects may pose a serious risk to human health. Since the law is not comprehensive in our opinion, substantial improvements can be made by adopting new or amendments to this law, which we can expect in a few months, because it is the manner of this government, i.e. the Ministry of Health. So far, this ministry has had resistance to amendments coming from the SRS parliamentary group and has not accepted any. I hope that this practice will not continue with the new minister and that these meaningful amendments will now be accepted. Finally, regarding this law, it is not clear which law will apply until the one you propose today is rounded up by sublegal acts to define the procedure for its implementation, as in Article 53. The bill of law states that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and ceases to be subject to the Law on the Health Righteousness of Lifetime Products and the Law on Health Control of Lifetime Foods and Subjects of General Use. As for the other two laws, on biocidal products and chemicals, we can see from your explanation that the main reason for their changes is to increase the efficiency of inspection by introducing a sanitary inspection. Sanitary inspectors have experience and knowledge by inspecting the means of maintaining general hygiene, detergents and chemicals used in the household, etc., writes in your explanation. It has also been said that additional funds will not be needed in the budget for the application of these laws. We know that sanitary facilities are insufficient and that by internal reorganization it will not be able to be amortised. The inspections in the Biocidal Products Act, as well as in the Chemical Act, are carried out by three ministries through their inspectors, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Health through the Sanitary Inspectorate and the Ministry of Trade responsible for trade through market inspectors. These three ministries should teach the joint body by mutual agreement in order to carry out inspection supervision, and the Agency for Chemicals, which was founded in 2009. Given that the government's practice of dividing the ministries according to the feudal principle, that only one political party manages the assigned ministry is the question of how to reach an agreement on liability for possible failures in the work of inspectors, which can cause adverse consequences for human health. It is most likely that responsibility will be collective, not personal, that no one bears responsibility, or that responsibility is transferred from one ministry to the other two. It is not enough that jobs related to chemicals are carried out in a manner prescribed by the Chemical Act, with the participation of three ministries and the Agency, but also chemical advisers over which knowledge training and verification is now being carried out. I fear that the result of the engagement of so many participants in the affairs related to this area will be in the manner, that as many laws and regulations as possible, they are less respected and implemented. All of this tells us it's about hosting party personnel and further multiplying the administration. With regard to prevention, citizens will have little use for these laws. Much more significant damage than the general use of items, as well as the unnecessary increase of the administrative army of advisors, inspectors, controllers. The forces of the Brussels Bureau should thus count on receiving the country in its ranks with the largest administration in the world and the world's largest unemployment. If everything is done according to the EU dictatorship and in order to meet the requirements in Brussels, you have achieved the goal, and protection of citizens could have been more effective that existing laws have been applied more consistently.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63562	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are responding to the work, according to the schedule of MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. I give my word to the MP, Mr Sima Vukovic, or Sima.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63563	Dear Professor Djukic-Dejanovic, Professor Stankovic, the ministry's representatives, deliberately addressed me in a way to highlight your academic titles because as a rule, when we have topics that have extraordinary public-health significance, very little interest in such a thing in the Assembly. Far from being able to reduce the importance of such a law, this applies primarily to the protection of the health of residents in the Republic of Serbia. What's excessively banalizing, not only when it comes to this law, is that some kind of need to pass these laws, because it stands in the national integration plan. Of course, no one argues that there are obligations in this direction, but these obligations are primarily beneficial for both our society and our country. What I'm going to talk about first of all is the Health Rightness Act of General Use. In fact, the previous speaker pointed out exactly the problems most frequently recorded through what are media affairs, media bombs in which she often has half the facts or false facts. So, a few days ago, we had a headline in a daily newspaper that a Serbian citizen had fallen into a coma from hair dye. There were countless headlines about how we imported toys from some, mostly eastern markets where paints or materials were made of these children's toys pose a great danger to children's health. We also often had opportunities to face problems related to the use of objects, especially dishes that come into contact with food. What is also one of the problems that permanently arises is that we have advertising products that have amazing medicinal properties, and in their essence represent one serious double-crossed intention, i.e. seriously misleading consumers and, of course, not only consumers but total citizens in the Republic. This is why these laws are also passed and created by that norm that should bring order into this area to a greater extent. Of course, we have such legislation in place, but these are laws that were passed in the early 1990s, which were certainly well adapted for their time, but for today, when they evolved and technology, it is only natural to promote this legislation and that these laws that were outdated must be replaced by laws that fit the principles and conditions in which we live today. The fact is that in 2009, we also passed a package of laws that must eventually be framed and completed by this law. First of all, this was about the Food Safety Act and, of course, I will not go beyond that that we have in addition to the obligations of the National Integration Plan and the obligation to comply with international rules and regulations that are not exclusively related to EU legislation. What we are certainly establishing by this law is modern standards in production and transport, therefore, only apply to certain aspects of production and transport of general use. On the other hand, this law modernises the approach to control or as it stands out in the legal text itself, mortiring, to those things that go below, which is an inspection of product sampling and all that needs to enable one much better control than it was in the previous period. What I would also point out, that is, and I think my predecessors have pointed out such a thing, it is good that in Article 9 of this Law, it is explicitly pointed out that it is forbidden to treat the subjects of general use and, on the other hand, not truthful reporting and advertising of such products precisely for the reasons that I have previously stated. One of the very important aspects of the adoption of such a law, and this should be highlighted in this discussion, is that this law returns practical control of general use items to its home resources, which was not the case in previous years. This was not good, because the Ministry of Health as an institution within the health system, first of all, refers to health care institutions, has capacities, resources, personnel and material that can deal with this area, and so far it has been largely distributed to ministries that have been responsible for jobs and trade and environmental protection, etc. So now we will have one framework and an exact responsibility above all by the competent health and health services minister and the Ministry of Health and that is very important and it is simply in line with some of the natural principles and practices that exist in other countries. Of course I have to say, I pointed out this on the very Committee on Health and Family, that the criminal provisions that exist in the law itself always seem insufficient to us, but we must also accept the fact that the lawyers often tell us, which is that, first of all, it stems from the original laws that regulate the offences themselves, and that your desire to establish more serious penalties is not real until these laws change. It is certain that these three laws bring this quality, as I pointed out, in the development of both our public health policies and its implementation in practice. Of course, it is certain that as a society and a state, we are not yet aware of the importance. No matter how many years ago we passed the Law on Public Health, we are still underdeveloping those capacities. I also see in this regard the contribution of this law. I must also refer to what an SRS colleague has perfectly legitimately stated as an opposition MP, mentioning my party and the movement that I belong to. Of course, we've never avoided responsibility for everything we've done, not just in health policy, but in other resources. I think maybe I should contact some other addresses, because we've always stood up here wanting to be responsible for all the procedures we've conducted as part of our health policy. We don't need any repacking in any new frames. If you may not be able to correct what is the concept of the United Regions of Serbia, we can discuss it elsewhere, but not here in the tide where we have an appropriate topic. Since we've been discussing these health issues for several years now, I have to tell you, I hope you won't mind me saying that, in most of the discussion, you've had exclusive negatives without constructive concrete proposals. I always remember the very often quoted sentence of the late prime minister who spoke, I will really paraphrasise that in Serbia it became a matter of classyness if you are pessimistic. Of course, you'll always be right the moment something doesn't work out, because you always say no. I don't have a problem with that, we're trying to contribute not only to the health system but also to other fields, and we and our coalition partners are making progress. Of course, that's your legitimate right, that's what I pointed out at first. To return to this topic, the United Regions parliamentary group of Serbia will support both in this principled search and in the framework of the amendment debate. In voting day, we will support all three proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63564	Ten minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Before I give my word to the MP who is in line next in line for the application of the word to the MP Radisa Ilic, on the basis of Article 90, I would like to inform the National Assembly that there is a session to be held in particular, that there has been an interest in the MPs who will hold the session for days, since the Assembly works and the days when there are no sessions, we will most likely continue this session on Monday, not Tuesday, and tomorrow the Assembly will work, but there will be no sittings and hearings in particulars. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and the People's Messenger Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I will say more about the bill on amendments and additions to the Chemical Law. In the beginning, I would immediately conclude that the stakes have changed in just two years. Last time, this law and the Biocidal Products Act were represented here by the environment minister, Mr Oliver Dulic, and now there is the health minister, Dr Zoran Stankovic, and next year we may also be left with the minister of culture, but on that later. What was shown in the explanation for the adoption of these amendments and additions has just explained the lack of basic law, and the MPs of the SRS indicated two years ago, which is the undefined jurisdiction of a particular ministry, the limited effectiveness of inspection supervision and, I would add, the existence of an unnecessary entity in this chain of legal persons implementing the provisions of this law. Of course, it's the Chemical Agency. We have also tried to correct these amendments, specifically, in Articles 2 and 4 of these amendments and additions. This bill best shows how unnecessary bureaucracy is spreading. Of course, it costs the citizens of Serbia. You have designated the Ministry of Environmental Protection as the Ministry responsible for overseeing the application of the Chemical Act. So, also for coordinating inspection surveillance from even three ministries. Now, as these inspections cooperate with each other, exchange information, assist in joint activities, it takes all this knowledge and information from the measures taken and the activities to pass on to the non-Secretary for the protection of the environment, but rather the agency, which is likely to have this information and the measures taken, somehow repacked with some bow and a convenient congratulatory, to just pass it on to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. What, then, is the benefit of such an unnecessary delegation of authority that resembles losing a postman? Recently, we were able to find out from the Chemicals Agency, although the whole job could have been completed by the Resort Ministry, that all products of industrial and household chemistry found on the Serbian market would have to have visible characteristics in packings in order for consumers to know what kind of chemicals to come into contact with. These warning images, or so on. pictograms have become something that will follow us from now on as long as the EU exists. Of course, no one has anything against those markings. This is good for security reasons, but one comparison given by Agency Director Jelena Cvetkovic, who says Serbia is the first country in the region to pass the global labelling system into its legislation that has so far been done by only Japan, New Zealand, Australia, South Korea and the United States. It's just that we're at the top, even if it's about this. When it is said - the first in the region, I do not understand the findings of the director of this agency that we are the first in the region, when before us we had to be done by EU member states right from our region. It is Greece, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovenia. As far as labeling the product itself is concerned, it is the least technological problem. Serbia's chemical industry is in the hands of foreign companies that have actually been doing it in their countries for a long time, so it will live successfully in Serbia as well. That part of the chemical industry that wasn't interesting to foreign companies is mostly in the weeds today, in bankruptcy, or someone bought a chemical factory for small money, and then he decommissioned those expensive machines and sold it all into old iron and probably made some profit. The pedanity that EU directives declare regarding the handling of chemicals and dangerous substances and the labelling of products with specific pictograms is well known to Serbian citizens. All those Serbs who were fortunate to have an invalid NATO bombing plane drop in their backyard in 1999, where EU countries participated, could see pictograms with a dead man's head on unexploded missiles. This is how cautious and perceptive Europeans were, even then, taking care of and caring for the Serbian people. The fact that we have the Chemical Act is known to everyone. That this law deals with chemicals in transport, that's also clear. What a particular state with this law can do, when it comes to lagging behind, very dangerous chemicals, like. The cyanide in some companies, institutions, which, thanks to the criminal privatisations, had failed, followed by the Privatisation Agency, and the state stood behind the Privatisation Agency, and on behalf of that state were people who now wanted to introduce us to the EU, who is on their way to bankruptcy? I'm going to give you one of the best examples of how powerless we are all as a state, despite so many pro-European laws to solve a free problem, the problem of moving dangerous chemicals, and here I extract potassium cyanide and potassium fericianide, from the very center of Kragujevac, more specifically the basement of the House of Self-Government. So in 2005, the successful Kragujeva firm Jugomedic, which produced medical and chemical reagents, finally failed because its fate was taken into its own hands by the Privatisation Agency, and what they get, we know what remains behind them, fired workers, katans and private security. Let's get back to chemicals and Jugomedics. So, since there was a later bankruptcy, the company was shut down and no one was going in there for those six years, and there was a huge amount of dangerous chemicals left. So no one reacted, including the Ministry of Environmental Protection, at least in practice. It remains to wait for someone curious, literally, to run into that warehouse in that basement and create a disaster. I repeat, there's calcium cyanide in there. It's all happening downtown with 150,000 residents, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister and the other gentlemen of the Ministry, you need to get moving, to do something concrete about this. Remove these chemicals and don't just worry about whether there's a triangle or a quad or a square on the hair shampoo so we know what quality is and what smells like. The people are paying us to keep him safe, so do something. The easiest thing to say is that it's not in your jurisdiction. I believe that no EU directive, and we can see that you are calling for a few dozen directives in this bill, would give you nothing, but, let's say, for this disgrace in Kragujevac, with potassium cyanide, which is otherwise a deadly blood poison. By this law and the 2009 Chemical Act, you provided for a chemical advisor. You could have given us some information in a few sentences in this explanation of the bill's proposal on the effectiveness of their role in the current handling of chemicals in the process of production, transport, storage and transport of chemicals. So we think that you could have made some adjustments, as you have explained by this law the status and role of a particular ministry and established additional powers of the inspector in the process of overseeing the application of this law. Since one media promotion report praised representatives of the Chemical Agency that only 19 substances were banned before 2010, and now that the number of over a thousand chemicals, whose traffic, i.e. use, is limited or prohibited, would I ask government representatives – is the use of nonyl phenol-containing products prohibited in Serbia? Why am I asking this? You probably heard about the Green Peace organization. This organization has come up with data that 14 world producers' clothes contain traces of toxic chemicals, extremely harmful to human health and the environment, meaning between which the nonyl phenol is enalased. In even two-thirds of the clothing test, specifically "La Costa", "Adidas", "Convers" and not to mention, traces of this chemical were found. But what's most tragic in this story, nonyl phenol, besides being toxic, is a little funny, has a function of mimicking female hormones, which can affect people's reproductive system. That's why this chemical agency, once they've invented it, could warn the executive authorities to watch what clothes they wear, so they don't act a little weird in public life. As for ordinary people, they're probably not as deep a pocket as they can dress with these renowned producers. This is what science said, they didn't say radicals. I'd go back to an agency whose director claims that, say, asbestos is absolutely forbidden to produce and traffic, because it's been proven to be cancerous. That was known, but now we've got official confirmation. Now, Mr. Minister and you gentlemen of the executive government, do you know how many miles of asbestos pipelines, or water pipes, are still in function in the state of Serbia? Did you make any databases on that problem? The environment ministry urgently needs, together with the Serbian government, to draw up a financial plan to replace the said asbestos water pipes throughout Serbia, if they think well of this people. The municipalities themselves don't have the money. In the explanation you provided us, we have seen statements of compliance with EU rules. It has been mentioned in dozens of directives, on many sides, from the EU, which regulate this area and you, I would say, mutilate Serbian conditions that are far from what exists in the EU. But for you, these are conditions that must be met at all costs and all because of the alleged accession of the EU, there in 2389. Mr. Minister and the rest of the executive authority, you are pushing us into the arms of the Union whose members are already on the betting lists in the west with the possibility of betting that the next EU country will go bankrupt. Finally, in Pirot, for your information, as far as the EU is concerned, a lot of Bulgarian citizens, EU citizens, who are selling old things from Bulgaria, have been coming in lately to survive. They're so beautiful in the EU. When they saw the SRS stand and learned that radicals were collecting signatures against Serbia's entry into the EU, they signed with both left and right hands. It is an experience for you on how to live in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63566	I'm asking you about the agenda. I must inform the MP that these signatures are invalid. People's MP Jelena Travar-Miljević is not here, there are other obligations. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, followed by a folk MP, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the Government, before the MPs of the National Assembly and before the citizens of Serbia, as we have heard, today, in the framework of a joint principled search, we are having a debate on three joint draft laws, which are: the draft health law on general application, the draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, as well as the amendment laws and additions to the Chemical Act. At first glance from these names, you'd say it's a new law and two old laws. However, it is only at first sight, because both the second and third laws are practically old-new laws, because they have existed in some form of legislation for several years. Otherwise, all the three laws we are discussing today treat the same problem, which is the protection of human health and the environment, as well as the proper professional supervision of the application of these laws. When any law is passed in any area, it is essential and necessary that the legislator has two things in mind. First, what's the situation in this area here? In particular, I mean the area of health. Secondly, what is the situation of the proposer to solve problems in the area by laws? However, these three laws are not proposed because the state of health in Serbia is bad, but the proposed legal solutions allow for the harmonisation of human health protection against EU legislation, as well as the harmonisation of national legislation with international regulations and standards, which is a significant priority for the government of the Republic of Serbia. In May 2009, the Biocidal Products Act as well as the Chemical Act was passed. In them you have installed the most modern solutions from the EU that treat this area. After two and a half years, you are again forced to discuss this issue in the Serbian Parliament, as new objections, new directives and new solutions have arrived from the EU. For this reason, I would like to ask a question – are we MPs of a sovereign state, which is based on its legislative activity on solving essential problems and the needs of our citizens, or are we just an instrument of government in which you are sitting, which again, without any critical attitude, adopts any objections coming from the EU? That is why we are dealing with issues and laws which, usually at a given time, are not essential to the citizens of Serbia or are practically inadmissible in our circumstances. Thus, we do not pay attention to the needy problems that we face daily in Serbia. I guess these days, and the most unwavering Europeans, for whom the EU has not had an alternative recently, are now clear that the EU is an enemy of Serbian national interests, because it cuts off 15% of our territory. The Serbian Radical Party will daily draw attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia to turn away from the wrong path led by Serbian citizens. Now a little bit about the proposed set of laws. We believe that these legal solutions have not touched at all the key problems of Serbia's health system, which are unsatisfactory. Not because the MPs of the SRS say so, but because it is shown by all objective, numerical and statistical parameters. I will take the mortality parameter, where Serbia ranks at the beginning of the number of deaths over the course of one year. Serbia is the third country in the world to have a heart attack. The malignancies in Serbia are the death of every fifth patient. In women, breast and uterine cancers are the smallest tumours, and in men they are colon, pancreas and lung tumors more and more. When there was a bill on bacteriological and biological weapons in this congregation, we asked a question to which we had not received an answer to this day. Why has there not been a health care strategy since NATO aggression? What's this about? Because since 2000, especially in the north of KiM and Serbia, there has been a significant increase in malignancies. According to some research by prominent doctors, this research was published in the journal "Pracsis Media". They said that during 1997 there were 2.6% of patients with lung cancer at the Kosovo Mitrovica department, and after 2000, the number increased to 22%. So I would also like to ask the minister that if not now, in some written form, do you have any plans at all to discuss the consequences of NATO bombing and to make a strategy? So far, you have made many strategies, and this is one important strategy you have not adopted so far. As for malignancies and chronic non-infectious diseases, which include heart disease, blood vessels, diabetes, respiratory disease, these are not the only diseases that are epidemics and are in the form of epidemics that plague the state of Serbia. We know that there are more and more suffering from mental disorders, that the depression of up to two thousand... (President: National MPs, please bring your report, which is quite interesting and justified on the health of the population, in any way in connection with the three amendments and additions to the laws on the agenda. No problem, I'll cut it short. I'd like to say that we are a nation that disappears biologically. It also showed the latest list, that there are about 380 thousand less than in 2002. So I would ask the minister, why is that? What measures will he take? Statistics show that there will be six million people in Serbia by 2050. Unfortunately, this is not what we're talking about. The ministry, by passing these sets of laws that are on the agenda today, only deepens and worsens the health situation. The SRS parliamentary group, with respect for its importance in the field of health, I believe that the minister will also respect what we are saying and at least listen to us, with great attention and without any prejudice, has considered the proposed laws. First of all, I'm going to say something about the draft health law on the subject of general use. On the Health Committee, we thought this was supposed to be the roof law in this area. However, this law, as we have seen, has 54 members and is quite unspeakable, is not comprehensive, there are many shortcomings. We don't think it can be called the roof law in this area. We find Article 3 very important. I won't read it. It applies only to general use items. In this law, you have meant that they are dishes, accessories, devices, packagings, other materials that come into contact with food in accordance with the law governing food safety. Under 2, these are children's toys and objects intended for children and children. Children are children for up to a year, as we know. Under 3, cosmetic products, cosmetic products with special purpose and packaging for the packing of these products. Under 4, objects that come in direct contact with skin or mucous membranes, facial and body decorations, objects for piercing and imitation jewelry. We believe that this law has reduced many items of general use. For example, you threw out tobacco and products used to use tobacco. In the Law on the Health Rightness of Foods and Subjects of General Use, these items of general use, tobacco and these assets existed. You don't mention anywhere in the law a means of reflecting personal hygiene as a means of reflecting cleanliness. It is not clear to us that in this law, under cosmetic means, do you also include these means of maintaining personal hygiene and the means of maintaining cleanliness? We think there's a lot of relativization in this law. I'll only give you two examples. You say one indisputable fact – employees in the manufacture of cosmetic products and other general uses must have basic knowledge of product hygiene and personal hygiene. We agree with that. But, Mr. Minister, what does "basic knowledge" mean to you? I don't think in one legislative regulation this notion literally means anything. In one of the following members, you say, "The Minister responsible for Health Affairs prescribes a manner of declaration, the content of the declaration regarding all the elements of health and health claims." I ask you again – what does that mean? You may as a minister make health statements, but in some legal provision a health statement doesn't mean anything. If it means anything, I'd like your answer. You're still saying that within six months, you're going to bring in a sublegal act to follow this law. Nine sublegislative acts are provided for in the following articles: 6, 9, 17, 19, 20, 22, in two positions, 3 and 4, Articles 32 and 39. That reminds me of bingo. We believe that these sublaws are at risk of changing the text of the law, which is not good. In the next article, you say the law comes into force eight days after the day of publication in "The Official Journal of Serbia". My question is, what happens in those six months until you write down these sublaws and what happens if there are any problems? You give here an explanation and you say, "We will apply the rules laid down by the Law on the Health Rightness of Lifetime Foods and General Uses and the Health Control Act on Lifetime Foods and Subjects of General Use in cases where they are not contrary to this law." But what happens if they're contrary to this law, and they can be because you've changed these laws since 1991 or some since 2005? Finally, I would like to say that we as an SRS and a parliamentary club do not question the adoption of these laws, and we believe that Serbia needs such laws, but not at this time and in this way. This one-hand law does not respect the state of our health system, and at the same time you do not create some perspective that this condition will improve and improve the level of protection of human life and health, as well as the protection of consumers' interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63568	The People's MP Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you didn't sit here in 2009 when I was a reporter in front of the SRS parliamentary group after a larger set of agricultural laws, including these two laws – the Biocidal Products Act and the Chemical Act. Even then, we, ministers, were saying as a parliamentary group that this law proposed by the EU was not complete and that their changes would take place. And in 2009, we were right. Unfortunately, at that time, the minister who was sitting there did not want to respect our remarks, either in principle or in particular. I hope that you, if nothing else in particular accepts our amendments that we have submitted in terms of improving the law, since this is what the EU is asking you to do now. You know how weird they are? They, as they hurried towards the EU, were the conditions of Karadzic, Mladic, now recognising KIM as a new country, secededed, with 15% of the total surface area of the Republic of Serbia, so it is not enough for them, and are now seeking amendments and additions to various new laws. Literally, the laws that were passed in 2008, 2009, 2010 and their changes and additions are being sought. Although, when I looked at this, it's more like you have only seven members here in this amendment law and additions to the Chemical Act, and I think this could have been done with some of your regulations. But I'm surprised by something else, Mr. Minister. When I read the argument probably written by your service, it's about the Law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act and the other one about chemicals, and I see that you've put the same arguments. I can't be the same explanation. But the bottom line is one thing, and this is the following: "The amendment of Article 50 found that the inspection of biocidal products, I also talk about chemicals, besides environmental inspectors, are one inspector, and market inspectors perform and sanitary inspectors control." I have a feeling that this EU is not quite convinced or certain of our inspectors, I am talking about environmental inspectors and market inspectors, so it will include sanitary inspectors. I don't believe that the sanitary inspector has enough knowledge that he could exercise control of this law. So I'm talking about the Chemical Act and the Biocidal Products Act. I can't right now without reading how it's identically written in both law and law, you've just changed attitudes. For example, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act states: "This solution is proposed for the reason that sanitary inspectors have experience in controlling the application of rules governing general use items, and in particular the means to maintain general hygiene and perform sanitary inspectors. In addition, regulation of the jurisdiction of sanitary inspectors contributes to greater efficiency of inspection supervision of the application of the Chemical and Regulation Act adopted on the basis of it, not only because of their experience but also because of the number." What I said is true. The EU does not appear to be safe in environmental inspectors and market inspectors. Or maybe she thinks they're corrupt? I guess that's their suspicion of corruption. That's why they put in those sanitary inspectors, who are more than professionally trained and who will help these laws apply in the field. Then you can see how that's the same thing in the Chemical Protection Act and the Biocidal Products Act. In Section 3, when we talk about amendments and additions to the Chemical Act, it's the same argument. It says – in paragraph 3 a supplement of Article 89 has been made, and in the Biocidal Products Act you say – the addition of Article 51 was carried out in paragraph 2 and is identical to why. Here, I will read – by establishing that the cost of sampling and testing of chemicals and products is borne by a legal or natural person or by an entrepreneur from whom the sample was taken, if the final procedure finds that it does not meet the prescribed properties, whereas in the event that the sample meets the prescribed properties of the sampling and testing costs of chemicals and products fall under the burden of the funds provided for by the financial plan of the Chemicals Agency. That's what it says in this second law in an explanation. The exact same thing, which is just impossible. That's not what your service should have done. These are two laws, they're put in one basket, actually three, but I'm talking about these two laws, they're put in one basket, but that doesn't mean it's the same thing, because biocidal products are one thing, and chemicals are the other. If I were to ask myself, I wouldn't allow any chemicals to exist in any country in the world anymore, but to produce organic food. I wouldn't allow it, but I don't ask myself. There may be time to ask the Serbian Radical Party, which is certain. I'll just have to remind you of something, Minister, as well as your associates sitting next to you, they probably wrote or copied this. The analysis of the effect says – The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act does not touch the essential solution given in the Chemical Act, i.e. these amendments and additions, regarding the precision of legal terms and the introduction of sanitary inspectors in the process of monitoring the application of the regulations governing chemicals. That's what it says here in terms of amendments and additions to the Biocidal Products Act. I continue - the basic principles of European rules in the field of chemicals continue to apply, to regulate the conditions for the placing on the market of chemicals as a product, i.e. how to determine the impact of chemicals on human health and the environment. I don't know how you think we're making one healthy food at all, when you know we're in 1999, well, at least you've been, thank God, on the ground, not since 1999, but since 1990, as a pathologist, how does this Serbia, which is enriched with poor uranium, more than it should be, how can it meet the needs and standards of the EU, when it can't meet those standards, because you know we're bombed? You know very well that a good part of Serbia, that this wicked finding of individual EU and US powers is done that Serbia is not yet the top organic food maker. Let those guilty bear their consequences. I'll remind you now what's been inserted into this law when it comes to chemicals. In Article 3 of the Old Law, which is here in front of me, after point 5), you added point 5a) and point 5b. You didn't add, they added for their own safety. Just for their own safety, and I'm talking about the EU. It says – recalling is any activity or measure to restore chemicals or products that the manufacturer has already delivered or made available to consumers, i.e. further users. So, he's trying to make sure that somehow this vomit of chemicals is done, if, God forbid, it's gotten to them. Then it is not enough for them either, so they asked for a 5b supplement), which says: withdrawal is any activity or measure that prevents further supply and use of available chemicals or products that are placed on the market. It's not enough to call back, now it's enough to pull out. Now I will read to you point 16) – the substance is a chemical element and its compounds in a natural state or obtained in the production process, including additives that are necessary to maintain its stability and impurity. You're the one who put the-- the dirt, it's just a change. So they're not interested in uncleanness, they're interested in purity. I don't know if that purity is coming to Serbia, as they are looking here, especially at this point in 16) which is changing in article 3 of the amendment to the Chemical Act. Do we think that they are all doing so in the details of these laws that we are passing, i.e. their laws passed to us here in this high house? I'm convinced they don't, on a number of occasions, whatever example you want. We've had some changes and additions to the Law on plant breeders and we've agreed to talk about GMOs. Excuse me, however, Serbia is flooded with certain products containing GMOs, flooded. That's where we need to stop for a little bit, so let's imagine. Come on, hurry to the EU, hurry up, get there. I don't know, they say it's 2020. Now we're going to have changes and additions, probably, of the Anti-Build Measures Act, so now there are no more missiles, and you know it well. Now we're going to cut jobs, there won't be any volunteers who receive 5,000 a month, and they're saving agricultural products. Here, they push buttons and send those rockets into the city clouds. Then they won't even work the factory that manufactures those missiles. Now we're going to have to buy planes that are going to fly over clouds with special substances and bring down these substances and then we're going to be sure there won't be any damage to agricultural products. Let's talk about something else, which is very important, Mr. Minister. The chemicals also reach the drug-produced factories, the ones that are allowed. Why did we get into a crisis, Mr. Minister, when we can't get into that crisis? It is said that someone seems to want to destroy these medicines factories located in Serbia. I'll mention, what about Galenic? Some products don't appear on the market anymore, and some people's lives depend on it. What about the Grainian Jugormedia? Who's destroying her? Did that privatisation he allowed, in his own time, when Vlahovic was in privatisation, allow something like that to buy someone who would destroy and remove a "Yugormedia" standing there, not to mention how many years? What about the Heartbolt, Mr. Minister? Is there only one, two, three or more major drugs, which only they can export to individual countries or distribute in Serbia? Who are the owners? Who just authorized them and gave those permits? You weren't the ones who were the ones who made the big drugstores and the distributions. And today, only certain people are in charge of it. You also have these vaccines via Miskovic. Now those G17s are quiet, they're out. And that's when the minister was told, I don't want to mention his name. Everyone's running from G17. There's no Dinkic, now there's Ciric, not to tell Cira. Serbian citizens must value what is happening in Serbia. As long as we, ministers, are going to suffer the conditions and conditions of the EU through these laws, and in particular, it burns me, and I have been looking forward to you sitting here as a minister and asking you what is wrong with the possession of these three most famous drug factories in Serbia? What's the reason to destroy them? What is the reason that individual citizens, Serbian citizens, cannot buy medicine? Let's say there's no broth, no chromium. I'm not a medical expert to remember everyone but a lot of hospital directors have called to tell me to ask you that. I think that the citizens of Serbia and the public should know why these three key drug factories are being destroyed before the elections? It is not enough to have this difficult economic situation for Serbian citizens, they should also be denied health care because of some tycoon who wants to take these factories. I'm just going to mention IMT, the factory that was famous in the world, we were exporters of the famous IMT 539 tractor and not to list all that we exported to India, China, African countries. Now they're importing us, India "Maindru", China "Ito" etc. IMT needs to be destroyed because it's 36 acres of city-building land. That's the point, Minister. So also the financial powers and tycoons, those in power, want to destroy these factories: "Yugormedia", "Galenika", "Serbolek", and you bring the laws here from the EU, which constantly condition us and which keeps telling us -- to supplement the law. How many extras? Let's sit down once and finish, how long it takes for you to vote here, to see if you'll do it. If you can go through the night, get more into that European community. My colleagues have mentioned how others live. I live near the border with Romania and I know how they live there. I also visit Serbia's Montenegro and the border crossing, because it's my party's place to visit. I see how they live there. They live by smuggling our cigarettes...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63570	Mr. Krstin, you're a little off topic, and you're leaving a little time for your colleague, you've got 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63571	Thank you for warning me, but I had to make the facts known to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63572	Don't stick to the agenda. I wanted to remind all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that our guests are on the occasion of December 1st, World AIDS Day, today in the National Assembly. Let me inform you that in this occasion and at the gallery, and I had a conversation with them before, there are representatives of the Union of Serbian organisations dealing with the protection of persons living with HIV, AIDS, who have already been monitoring part of our session. Present are gentlemen: Vladimir Antić, Boris Kovacic, Sandra Mančić, Dubravka Malohodzic, Rajko Gristic, Đurica Stankov and Goran Ostojić. Please welcome them. People's MP Dobrislav Prelic has a word. [[Applause]] You have nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63573	Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, today we have three laws in a united debate. We have a bill on health law of general application, the Biocidal Products Act and the Chemical Act. Namely, these three laws are interlinked, certainly, but it is interesting for them that jurisdiction has multiple ministries. I think the jurisdiction here is intertwined. They have the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water, Forestry and now trade, as the two ministries are merged. Given that these amendments and additions are not so extensive, it was natural for this ruling majority to come change and supplement after a year, in that part we are not surprised. The Chemical Act amends eight members, in the Biocidal Products Act, 14 members. At first glance, it seems to be mostly technical stuff, but I think there's a lot that's problematic. It is particularly discussionable, and it must be taken special care when something comes from the "G17 Plus Kitchen", now the URS, since they had this ministry and their minister in the previous period, until you came. Unfortunately, for the past 11 years, we've had so many bitter experiences, not that we have to be careful, but I don't think there's anything that can be supported. I say we have such a bad experience. Not to mention this vaccine where the state is damaged by 1.5m euros, as well as all the affairs behind them. Certainly, the SRS, not only can we not support such a thing and follow such a policy, but our policies are completely different. First of all, the SRS will never give up its policies, I mean national and national interests. Never and under any circumstances will we be for the EU and NATO pact and we will not give up the idea of a great Serbia, unlike colleagues from the opposite political option, which cannot be trusted. Someone says it always stands upright, and should have, above all, cheek and stand upright after all these affairs. Our president voluntarily surrendered to The Hague to protect the interests of the Serb people, not to enter the NBS with a sock on his head. I think there's a huge difference and there's no need to discuss it and ask a question. I'm going to say just a few examples, first of all when it comes to the Agency for Medicinal Products, there's a chance we've had to see that much that goes into Serbia is simply not disputing personal credibility, but that it's simply not possible to control everything. I'll just give you a few examples. Let's say yesterday in the press we had a chance to hear that Botox would be banned, if one toxic substance appeared. Your colleagues were just shocked. Not to say we had green tea that was withdrawn from use. Let me point out the dolorex, a migraine medicine, which was placed on the market without permission, without the Agency's permission. It couldn't even tell what was harmful in that silk bug. You know she's been on our market for five years. I think it's inadmissible. We had a chance the other day that a woman fell into a coma because of paint. It's the hair dye. So it must really pay attention and simply be much more control when importing such things. When it comes to biocidal products and the Chemical Law, I think that these are two very important laws, but which are not fully applied, unfortunately to us in the Republic of Serbia. We all know that microorganisms and other unwanted organisms are developing everywhere there are food and moisture sources. Their presence and adverse effects disrupt the quality of life and products affect production processes. Biocidal products are used to destroy undesirable organisms chemically or biologically when these organisms appear in an unacceptable number and in places where they endanger human health and affect animals or the environment negatively. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Environmental Protection in that area, too, I think of our processors first and foremost, without adequate control, even many look through their fingers. I'm just gonna point out how many cases we've had where we've had total fish death, where they haven't even found each other after a while, not to say the culprits responsible for it. You know, especially in Vorbas, we know what we have there from industry. I don't think it was too controversial to find, but I just don't think it was the will to find something like that, and the damage was priceless. We had opportunities to witness the great destruction of our hives, where beekeepers were severely damaged. The reason is pesticides that aren't allowed in the first place. I will talk about this in particular, given that the SRS in continuity warns that it has appeared on our market, primarily genetically modified organisms. Not just soy, but corn. We had an analysis that showed that the bees were destroyed because of the corn that had that gene in it that was simply poisoned. There's been a huge sea of bees. Are we able to control everything in Serbia? Well, of course we don't succeed regardless of the profession, the number of agencies we have, it's just that sometimes it's physically impossible to achieve. Is there any way we can put in place control right now when we're dealing with cessologous fertilisers? That's why I said that here in these three laws a lot of ministries and intervening, and which is not only in the health ministry's jurisdiction, but simply a lot of agencies and commissions are not allowed into certain companies. I say this for the reasons when we mention this explosive fertilizer, first of all, the problem is in the nitrate that is being introduced into the country and later comes to our end-users, to the citizens of Serbia, who also has one banned substance in them, but certainly, since the Ministry of Agriculture has unfortunately abolished the general inspectorate who had that function to prevent such a thing, not only when it comes to artificial fertilizer, but when this other thing is directly affecting the health of our citizens, and first of all, I mean finished dried products. There will be even less control now, unfortunately. What's more than worrying, and you here said there'd be increased surveillance, and I'd like to ask you if you could control the labs on KIM, Mr. Minister? First of all, laboratories that are under KFOR's direct patronage, and even have Bonstille's support, simply don't let anyone in. First of all, I think of laboratories for genetically modified organisms, because there is such a laboratory near the furnace that produces genetically modified seed organisms and various banned substances. As part of this base, there is also a large number of warehouses. Behind all this is an American company, Mr. Minister, the Monksanto who wants to literally flood the whole world with its products. It's common knowledge that "Monksanto," and I'm convinced by your biography and everything you've done in your life so far, that you know that this company has also produced an orange agent, that it was used by Americans in Vietnam when they bombed them to destroy vegetation, and that a huge number of people were killed. What is very dangerous, and what is disastrous and simply unacceptable, is that only after ten years has it reflected in the right sense, especially the newborn children who have been born with physical malformations, and since in the last 11 years, after the vicious NATO bombing of the poored uranium, it is certain that Serbia should not allow such a thing. I don't need to talk to people like that, but I don't know what your options are to control here and that lab at Kim. What is alarming is that finished products have already appeared here in Serbia. By abolishing Serbia's general inspectorate, Serbia has come into a situation that simply cannot control such a thing. It is more than worrying that products with the code "alimony" have appeared, that these products are much cheaper, and unfortunately, the purchasing power of our citizens has fallen so much that, regardless of these statistics and the consumer basket you are trying to buy, not you but this government and the fact that the consumer basket is somewhere around forty-seven thousand today in Serbia, certainly our citizens are forced to buy what is cheaper and not sufficiently informed, regardless of all attempts of various environmental movements, and also we here in the Assembly that we have been saying that Serbia must not possibly allow such a thing. Unfortunately, the price has a lot to do with our people buying. I will remind you that first of all, the Meat Industry "Matijević" already has such products marked "Alimetarium Code", but simply there is no control and something like that cannot be allowed. I think you should react with your colleagues and have the inspection go in to Mathievich and control something like that. This meat industry, which was founded 15 years ago in these 15 years, has been able to overcome one Neoplant, one November 29th, one Carnex. It's just amazing, but it's true. They're holding the monopoly in ransom. They bought out many agricultural enterprises and thus allegedly cost production, and we all know the situation our cattlemen are in today and that it is simply impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63574	Time's really up, but if you want four more minutes. You claim to have another four, five minutes, you don't, you don't. This is 15 minutes, I just think that we saw correctly where there was a mistake around the authorised promoter was moved, but that is, I'd like to ask you to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63575	Here's a sentence. The very fact that he was here in Serbia, visiting Jose Biden, directly conditioned our government that if we wanted to enter the World Trade Organization, we would have to adopt the Law on genetically modified organisms. It is common knowledge that the SRS will never be for this, and this policy simply cannot be followed and therefore we will vote against these amendments and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63576	Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63577	Thank you, everyone who took part in this discussion. It's not my turn to skip some things and some speakers, but I'm going to stick to the last speaker on Mr. Krstin. You said at one point that most of Serbia was contaminated with poor uranium, if I understood you correctly. Just because you said Mr. Krstin, does that mean that now you're saying that our food exporters can't export food to any country because the authorities of this country lie to them and don't cover the areas that are bombed with poor uranium. And does that mean that you're from your area, so from Vojvodina, if I'm not mistaken, you're towards Romania. Does that mean that your countrymen can't export food because we're lying to them, that part is contaminated with poor uranium. Do you know how hard the accusation is and how confused you are in this way you are with those and people who are in any way trying to take out what they're trying to produce? I'm going to tell you there are maps, where the premises are shot with poor uranium. Those who made those maps are the answer. Please, when you're out, you can criticize this law as much as you want. It's your right. I'm glad your MP group has access to every law and every law with this much seriousness. But please, when you're making some assessments and accusations, make sure that they can have far more powerful negative consequences. Just because they've been told the truth. So that's why I came to you first. When it comes to dying, let's talk about the data now. I respect you as MPs, but as Minister of Health, I may invite you as doctors and Mrs Plecevic and Mrs Paunović – Milosavljevic. Look, you're saying increased infant mortality, and here's the data. In 2001, the death rate was registered to 1,000 newborn children from 10.1% in 2010 to 1,000 newly born children was 6.7%. So that's the data. Secondly, you are talking about the increased number of cardio - vascular diseases, and these are official data. In 2001, died of cardio-vascular diseases 60,684, and in 2010 56,448. So, less than 4,000 people. Then the rate of cardio - vascular diseases per 100,000 inhabitants, 2005 was 815.6 and in 2010 774. According to this, it's official data, I don't know where your data is from, but you have to go out with accurate data, secondly, when it comes to whether we're doing this because of the EU or not, and if you, as people who know and I'm sure you know a lot about chemistry, know how fast this area is progressing and how fast certain products appear on the market that can harm the country's population's health. And do we now need to do some of the amendments to the law within two years of doing some of the activities that involve protecting the population because of the new circumstances that have arisen or because of someone else? When it comes to this, I want to say that there was talk here whether we believe or believe the EU, whether the EU is likely to be inspectors. I am not interested in whether the EU will trust our inspectors to the only obligation that the state has on credible data, but if you believe it, I believe Mr. Kristin to trust them, and that is a great gain for me. Do you have the opportunity to influence that? Well, since you don't, here you are participating in this law, in the making of laws. Are we going to accept the amendments you've given? And will they be? Yes, all your amendments are being discussed and we are even truthfully saying, I must commend your parliamentary group for the number of amendments you have given, for the quality of these amendments, and they will be incorporated to the extent to which this law will improve. And we expect that from those amendments. As for some other data, don't make me enter whether the mobile phone is a means of general use or an electronic device. That's what you have to do when you're discussing saying it again. So that's the thing. Whether tobacco is a means of general use or a means of abuse, however, take, where tobacco belongs, etc. So these are some things that I'd just like to mention in principle, there are a number of other things that you've listed. And let's not go into another debate about whether we're doing this by EU dictatorship. That's what I'm done with. We're doing this for ourselves. Because we are forced and we have some areas that are not done, which are not covered, and we must now correct the health status of our citizens. What you asked me about these three factories, I've already answered that question in this assembly, and I said that the state has allocated 73m euros to let Galenika function and that's what this is about. The stalemate that was, thanks to the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health, the work and functioning of Galenika have been removed, however, you know that in one period of time we cannot return all medicines properly to production, it takes time. It's the same with Jugormedia. We held four meetings with them and agreed with a foreign company and not to enter into one thing, which is that some drug license that expired on 31 October 2010 for eight drugs in the factory, someone without approval and on his decision he let it continue to be produced, not asking the state and acting the way they behave, but there are data about it, and we can elaborate this afternoon on the questions that you can ask. As for these objections, radionuclides. Concentrations are regulated by the Law on the protection of the population from ionic radiation. The rules on the restriction and prohibition of dangerous chemicals and the list of classified dangerous substances were adopted in 2010 and all sublegal acts. In parallel with the law, the education of inspectors and the strengthening of inspection capacity in the control of chemicals and biocidal products shall be conducted. When you mention children's toys, in 2010, of 2486 imported children's toys in 39 cases were invalid. It's official data. I'm telling you this because it was mentioned here that you were asked to see if there was or wasn't any of those inspections. The priority of these laws is to protect health, to protect consumers' interests. Other laws also regulate areas, such as the Standardisation Act, the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment, the Act on General Product Safety, the Consumer Protection Act, and that I no longer cite them. It takes two years for our products to adapt to new conditions and be competitive on the market in order not to endanger domestic production. We took care of it as well as to be focused and ready to be placed out of the country. The right to conduct an analysis has only authorized and accredited laboratories, which is in accordance with international standards. The law provides for the adoption of appropriate sublaws, and all the analyses mentioned by Dr Plecevic are also done when it comes to toys. In the end, what's a health statement? The health statement shall include a statement of medicinal fact. That's what you asked me. There are other things I can elaborate on, but given the enormous respect for the efforts of the entire congregation and what you have proposed as amendments, I do not want to enter any more details and answer some statements that are not supported by material evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63578	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Milorad Krstin, from the scene: Replica. ( ) Since no one has used the right of Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, not to mention, conclude a joint principled search on the draft health law on general application, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act. Why don't you give me your word? 1600 hours will give you a chance You're entitled to the Rules of Procedure if I consider it to have a basis for replication. [[Milorad Krstin, from the scene: I have the right to a replica?]] My assessment is that the minister was extremely correct in informing all the issues that were being raised during today's debate, that he was not unclear, that he did not insult anyone and that there was no reason for replication. It's the discretionary right of the chairman. Please respect me as much as I respect you. (Milorad Krstin, from the post: Let me answer what territory I meant, I meant the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and the southern part of Serbia. ) You will have the opportunity to set up a minister who will be at our session of 16:00 hours. Mr. Krstin, please don't disturb a single atmosphere we've had with this house. Dear People's MPs, at 4:00 we have a government here and we continue our work. Further agendas will continue on Monday, at 10.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction, as provided for in Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated, provided for in Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the MP asking questions cannot last longer than three minutes, as provided for in Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority, as provided for in Article 204(6). Rules of Procedure. The Government, or the Minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question, if there is a need for preparation to be answered, they must immediately explain it, and deliver the reply to the MP in writing within eight days of the date on which the parliamentary question is asked, as provided for in Article 206. 1. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the MP's question, which has asked the question, shall have the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to their question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as provided for in Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, by giving a change first word to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. I'm asking MPs' groups who haven't delivered to do it yet. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit applications for participation in the debate, i.e. asking questions and asking MPs to apply. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63580	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice-President and Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, on behalf of the PUPS Parliamentary Group, I ask the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister to answer the question once more - when will the debt be paid to the agricultural pensioners? In fact, this group of our citizens has been waiting for debt payments for a long time, and in this respect, we had a debate on the 2011 Rebalance Act. The prime minister has answered those questions. I ask that question once again, because we have the citizens' interest in our parliamentary group to answer whether it will be within what is scheduled. We are soon in the debate on the 2012 budget law and therefore this issue is even more current. I'm asking the Prime Minister to answer this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63581	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63582	Dear People's MP, funds to pay off and the last wars for agricultural pensioners, which remained as an old debt, are provided in this budget or rebalancing, call it what you want. It will be paid in December of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63583	Thank you. Mr. Colakovic, do you want a comment, a question? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63584	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister and Prime Minister, VBA Director Svetko Kovac said these days that in the south of Serbia and in the land's security zone, the security situation is relatively stable. However, he added, I quote, that there are still indicators that point to the possibility of harmonisation in factors or indicators of harmonisation, he also listed the requirements for demilitarisation of this area. I believe that there are very difficult accusations in this statement, which are primarily political disqualifications, which cannot be proved. I would first ask the government if it really believes that a request for demilitarisation can affect the alignment of the security situation in this area, especially if it is known that these requirements come from legitimate representatives representing Albanians in this area and that the essence of these requirements is focused on the withdrawal of mini military bases and special forces of police within the KZB, i.e. a space of 5km from the border of Kosovo, which is located at the end of May 2001, when the land zone is relaxed. However, there was at least relaxation in this area, as neither was it possible to return citizens who had left their homes and properties since the war of 1999, and the few remaining Albanians, continued to leave their hearths during the past 10 years, due to enormous militarisation. The last brutal physical attack by a police officer on the Ismaili family, in the village of Grbavac near Medvedja, makes it clear that in such an emergency situation, there is no talk of any economic development but that there are indeed no minimum conditions for the survival of that population in its centuries-old hearths. I ask the question – why is there no use of experience from the Serbian-Macedonian border, where since 2005, after severe incidents when several civilians were killed by soldiers and even a 16-year-old student, the special responsibility zone has been narrowed down to 300 to 500 meters earlier? Since no similar incident has occurred since then, in this area, is it not normal for the same practice to be used towards Kosovo, rather than for it to be an enormous militarisation, which damages the whole area?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63585	Time, Mr. Halimi. Before I give you my word, I just wanted to remind you that the content of the report you're referring to is actually a confidential document. Also, I'd like to remind you that everything about the session that that report was on is also confidential. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63586	That's exactly what I wanted to say, that I can't comment on that report. If the MP wishes to be given an answer that he will bear, I suppose, the mark "strictly confidential", we will convey that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63587	Thank you, President. Does Mr. Riza Halimi want to comment or possibly ask an additional question? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63588	I would just like to add that this is not a matter, and I am not taking this out of the relevant commission or council in the Assembly at all, but I pulled this out of the Foneta, as of 12 November 2011, when Mr Kovac, I guess, at the time of the VOA celebration, presented it to journalists of this qualification. It is, however, not an internal document or a statement at a closed session, but a public statement. I expect to get an answer. If not now orally, at least in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63589	MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63590	Mr. President, I wanted to ask you a question that's been set up here several times, but it hasn't arrived yet. Please answer me. It's about the next one. When a decision was taken in the previous government in this parliament to set up a concession for the construction of the Horgos-Pozega highway, to stop it, to prevent the implementation of the whole project, which was the biggest project in Serbia's history and not to lend Serbia credit, or have any budgetary consequences, because you know very well how it works in the Law on concessions, 12.5 thousand sides of the contract were required to be published on the site. Every page. What is more, 5-6 pages that were controversial, and later one page which is a business secret company, a concessionary, was asked to be published in full. And it's all published in full. The public must know and everything must be transparent, etc. You deliberately contributed to this concession, although it went through this parliament, shut down from some infrastructure council, like the government's working body and hitchhiking. Now, when the issue of "Fiyata" was raised, the contract with "Fiyata" was published on the site, but it's all blacked out. Serbia has given millions and hundreds of millions of euros, more specifically, over 700m euros has been paid by the government for the FIATA project. Why is it darkened and why isn't it all published in full? What are those secrets and who's keeping secrets? Who made those contracts? The second question that is extremely interesting is "Satellite." Is it true that the government's representative for "Satellite" was Homen and that his office, or that his mother defended the defendant in this procedure, Mr Davinic? The third very interesting thing is for Mr. Minister of Health. Mr. Minister, I've asked for you several times and asked to get in touch somehow. One Ivanjica fighter, who is a participant in the war in Kosovo and who received leukemia from radiation, and hundreds of people across Serbia, he is a young boy, can't find a dinar anywhere. A father goes to Belgrade from MPs to MPs, goes from firm to firm and a minority asking, begs and begs not to have a child die, because recently a woman has managed to save herself at a hospital in Leipzig, and otherwise has been sent from the Kings - why is there no dinars from the Ministry of Health, to help one such man?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63591	Time. Who's going to answer? Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63592	Dear People's Parliament, I would like to answer these first two questions, and I will leave this last to the Minister of Health. When it comes to the Fiat, as far as I know, the Fiat as the other Contracting Party that is the signator of the contract, it felt that certain things should not go public. It's simply, at their request, sloped, the way it's usually used to be to keep certain things that someone wants to keep as their commercial secret, to keep them that way. And the propo concession, I just want to say that the concession broke up by the other Contracting Party. It wasn't our side that broke up, but the other side said she was coming out of the concession. I don't want to, and I don't think it's a good idea to talk a lot about it, given that the process is in progress, and then let that arbitration end and see who's right and who's wrong. When you're doing Satellite, you know it's one case this government inherited. Unfortunately, this government is very often in a situation where it has to pay what happened before. I'm also very dissatisfied when I get paid a variety of debts from five, six, ten, twenty, thirty years ago, because that's what's happening. Who he was and how he was a defense attorney, believe me, I don't know. All I know is that we were forced on the basis of a definitive decision of arbitration, to pay for significant funds. In this process, we managed to reduce them and pay less than the arbitration finds, regardless of the figure that was greater. Of course, it is very difficult for this government to ask questions about this very unfortunate situation for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63593	Would you like a comment or a question? I'm sorry, there's also a word from Minister Stankovic, so you have a full answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63594	Mr. Ilic, you know we've been talking about this with leukemia. It's about a person who's already been to Italy for bone marrow transplants. You also know why he was returned. Up to now, 38,000 euros have been raised and about 120,000 euros are needed. His father sent over the paperwork. This written documentation is sent to the competent service of the Republic Health Insurance Fund to see if we have and how much resources to help. The procedure is under way. Therefore, no one is running away from obligations, but because of the great commitment to the Assembly, I was not in a position to contact you afterwards. But the letter that was sent, with all the documentation, was sent to the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Tomorrow we have a meeting and we will see if and how much we can participate in the treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63595	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63596	Mr. President, it's not true that the concession agreement was broken by the concessionaires. It is true that the Infrastructure Council asked for the concession to be broken because it was the dream of Nenada Chanka and Mr. Kostreš that they would not support the government unless the concession contract was broken because they were against it. And it's not true that it hasn't been published. It all had to be published because a team of journalists came and the Executive Major of Vojvodina demanded every order that it had to be published and there were no business secrets. What are those secrets at the Fiat? No secrets, Mr. President. Every order of the contract has to be published. It's money that's Serbian citizens and there's no talking about having any secrets. What's been published on the site is the most embarrassing and embarrassing thing for this government, that it's darkened, that it can't be seen and read publicly, and there's so much money being invested and there's nothing from the project. You know that in 2009, 200,000 cars were said to come out of the flag programme and to be sold on the Russian market. That's what's said here in parliament. That's what you said in the campaign. I'm asking you to publish the contract, otherwise we're going to ask the Commissioner for Public Information to order that the contract be published in full. That's what we're looking for, MPs. No secrets. Who are you hiding from? From Parliament? What are your secrets? What are the business secrets of the Fiat that went bankrupt? The second question you've answered is a classic example of corruption and that should never happen again. There's a lot of cases like this, and I can get you the paperwork, and we can talk about it. The third question, Mr. Health Minister - I didn't ask about this one case. You're the one who turned yourself in to help. And it's not true that it needs 120,000, it needs 180,000 euros. But I repeat, because of the parents, because of the sick in Serbia, more and more people are sent today to go from institution to institution, from institution to institution, to begging and asking for money. We here every day at the Parliament Club receive two, three citizens who come looking for money. We now have a request that the MPs from the pay, from the living room, from the pausals, allocate funds to help. You in health care have to deal with this problem permanently, otherwise Serbia can't, can't have a parent who's sick and who's dying to go from citizen to citizen and ask and beg.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63597	Time, Mr. Ilich. Does anyone want to answer? Mr. Prime Minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63598	I'll be very brief. As for what I don't think we should talk about since the process is under way, I just want to inform you that you're not very well informed. If you want to inform yourself, but as an MP and not in front of the public, I invite you to contact me and I will provide you with the documentation you want to see. As far as many corruption cases are concerned, since you said you had them, this government is currently struggling with corruption, and I most kindly ask you to elaborate them and deliver them to the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63599	Thank you. Would you like a comment, Mr. Ilic? He's got the word Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63600	It is true that there is insufficient resources missing from the Health Insurance Fund to treat patients in Serbia. But as you know, the health ministry budget is two times smaller compared to 2007. At the same time, when it comes to people to be treated, as you know, this patient is referred to Italy. The funds for his treatment have been approved. Why the treatment didn't work out, that's a different story. But the funds are provided. Secondly, for those who cannot provide health care in our country, there is a commission that decides whether or not to be treated abroad. There is a contract with Italy on the treatment of people suffering from leukemia, and all those cases that can be treated in Serbia, at the same time, following the decision of the Republic Fund, which is responsible, are not directed abroad, but are recommended for treatment in our country. That's what I can tell you. Whether it's 120 or 170 thousand euros, I've told you how much our father has applied for. And we will look to help him to the extent that we can. I hope that now, when it comes to the budget, you will provide for much greater resources for the health budget compared to others, and I think that we will then solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63601	Mr. Ilichu, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63602	I'd just like to respond to the Prime Minister. It is true that there are cases where the government has done nothing, that it lies in a drawer of criminal charges where the highest degree of corruption is represented. Ms. Malovic, the minister of justice, has a copy of such a case. For example, the question is – a criminal report of the Bundesques. What about the Bundes cash register? He's got criminal charges, money laundered through the Segedin Bank, and a criminal trial initiated, and it's all in the drawer. Next, the Cypriot money. The procedure is in the drawer. Why isn't he being processed or being rejected? I'm one of the witnesses in the process. Further, "Zagrebačka banka", "Nuba Invest" - criminal reports of NGOs. Even Sonja Licht against Minister Dulic has filed criminal charges and her organisation, as well as "Pistalska", and I don't know who hasn't yet moved because of the accidental spending of money, that action "Let's Clean Serbia" - cleaning the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's what it says in the title, and that's what many people have transmitted. Please, you're 15. 11. In 2011, they received a letter from the UN addressing you precisely with a memo on where corruption is, in what way, etc. It's never been revealed and nothing's been done. Why are these actions kept and why are they not processed and why is there no answer? If they're unfounded, why aren't they rejected? I'm asking you to do something. I want to answer you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63603	Time. Please respond in one sentence, time is already up. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63604	Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the term of office of this government, Mr. Cvetkovic had two side-by-side priorities – the European Union and the preservation of the KIM as part of the Republic of Serbia. We welcomed this dedication. But since then, to this day, as far as the EU is concerned, you've been a spokesman, you've worked hard, you've worked on it, you've maximised something that's in the air, and you've minimized part of your territory. It is obvious that these days it reaches culmination when the Kosovo issue is being resolved before December 9th. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you are not in a position to challenge the situation in Kosovo and Metohija to give adequate answers, you are not in a position to provide the majority for the declaration that needs to be made and has to come to the National Assembly, which would be discussed and determined to solve the problem, you are not in a situation and that you are in a consensus in the Government with decisions and regulations on individual solutions that have been reached, because no one will normally accept from the resources what you have accepted there. That's the decision of certain ministers I welcome and that's something to respect. However, I can't help but think that, for example, no one in charge of Kosovo and Metohija today is in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia. National MPs from Kosovo and Metohija on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija were unique both opposition and position, that the solutions reached by Mr Stefanovic were devastating. State Secretary, too. There is no room at all, and there is no possibility that such an important issue is being discussed in this home. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you what is the reason why the Government did not deliver a declaration to the National Assembly on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, did you have at all most of those 126 and answer me if you intend to send any declaration that this House would discuss?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63605	Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63606	The previous Assembly Resolution tasked the government with reporting to the Assembly at intervals of three months on what it did during the period. Accordingly, the government prepared material, a report, where it was taxed on what was happening, what was it that the government did and the report in good time, within the deadline, handed over to the Assembly, thus fulfilling the obligation to the resolution that is now in force. There was an idea to bring in another piece of paper that would go in the direction of the future, but that paper needed to be provided, not a simple majority, which we could provide, but had to be provided with a vast majority, similar to the one with which the previous resolutions were adopted. Unfortunately for me, instead of being constructively approached here and considering where the common denominators are and adopting such a resolution with at least 200 MPs, there was political calculatorism and every party looked at itself. Therefore, the government felt that it was better not to adopt a resolution with 126 than to adopt it, and then have one, though minority, but a significant minority that washes hands and says "we do not participate". So to recap, what was the matter of the government, the government, in accordance with the previous Resolution, prepared and handed over, and you had the opportunity to consider it. As for the future, we're ready to go out with new paper, but that's why we're asking for the support of everyone, given that this is a matter of importance for the whole state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63607	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Milentievich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63608	Accepting dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina was aimed at resolving the technical issues of all citizens in the KIM territory, i.e. areas in the interest of all citizens, without incurring status solutions. If not, it is an example of reaching an agreement, where one side gets everything, and the other side gets nothing, with the blessing of the negotiating team in Belgrade. Pristina has received its citizenship, its traffic licenses, its traffic charts, the Kosovo Supreme Court, which will be the last institution for the property of Serbs at KIM, diplomas, etc. This was all issued and certified by the stamps of an independent state of Kosovo. In doing so, the agreement leaves no possibility for Serbs in KIM to have what I have listed. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you the following question: How in addition to these facts do you explain that you have not recognised independent Kosovo and have you violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Resolution 1244 and all the declarations brought by the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63609	The Prime Minister would like to comment on your comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63610	So, I listened to how you understood what was discussed and what was agreed. I have to tell you, in your words, I didn't recognize what was really being discussed, not even by the subject. Of course, the structure can be built, and then that structure is criticised. I want to tell you that the government, as it has drawn out and published, will not take a single step towards Kosovo's recognition, either implicitly or explicitly. That's why these agreements and conversations are very difficult, where we strictly make sure that any deal stays, what's called from the point of view of recognition, completely out of that frame.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63611	You want an additional two-minute question? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63612	I asked for a concrete answer to everything that was achieved. Of course we have insight and, of course, all the MPs with KIM discussed it. You're not going to admit it, and we're going to move on. If Resolution 1244 is the Holy Scriptures and now the main theme is administrative crossings in the north of KIM, this means that UNMIK and EULEX have the right to manage the administrative lines with KIM, according to Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 does not recognise customs and customs officers of the so-called The Republic of Kosovo, nor the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows it. For these reasons, you took us to barricades to protect the legitimate interests of the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the north of KIM. Protecting Resolution 1244, Serbs from the north of KiM will not accept that administrative crossings get the state character of the so-called. Kosovo states, nor customs officers, nor border police so-called the Republic of Kosovo. Any other solution reached by the negotiating teams of Belgrade and Pristina is not in the interests of the Serbs at KIM, thus issuing the national interests of the Republic of Serbia and definitely recognised independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63613	National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63614	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Prime Minister, ministers, in addition to the KIM problem, which is certainly the biggest problem Serbia has and the economic situation that is catastrophic, not only as you say because of the economic crisis in Europe, but also because of the inability of this government, as some other institutions say. I see these days and a cry to the governor of the NBS by businessmen in Serbia and a debate with him that goes. Surely Serbia's biggest problem is corruption. I have repeatedly asked questions about corruption here, and I have to inform the citizens of Serbia that in one case alone I have received an answer. When asked about the Beška Bridges, I never got an answer on Adi Giganlia. Over a year ago, I asked about the Jell-O Bridge in Novi Sad. Attending Minister Djelic also attended the signing of a contract to build the bridge. I spoke in advance, so before the contract was signed, I was saying what would happen two months ago and with whom the contract would be signed. To this day, the board was not placed, nor was it buried there, and in March the month they had to start the works. We'll see what happens and we'll see what happens. Turns out I was right and in that case it seems to have been pressure, but regardless, the Public Procurement Act is the Public Procurement Act, and if it was bad, it had to be respected until the end. Last thing that came as a surprise to me, the other day I spoke about it in the late evening, because a debate about the Police Law was held at the time, that it was announced by the UN and one of their agencies that in Serbia police were the most corrupt. That question I wanted to ask Minister Dacic or the Minister of Culture, depending on which one of them would be present, because of something that happened in the Evening News. Unfortunately, neither one of them is present, so I hope that at least part of this issue will be able to answer either the Minister of Justice or the Prime Minister. Namely, the first hearing was held, that is, to say the main review of the trial of Darko Saric, where the witness, as well as the defendant Mile Jerkovic, a businessman allegedly from Vojvodina, spoke of the name Branko Lazarevic 22 times in his testimony, and accused him of laundering money and giving off official secrets, i.e. co-operation with the group by informing them. The specific question is whether a case has ever been brought against Mr. Branko Lazarevic or if he has been called as a witness to speak of the case, since at the time it was the head of the cabinet of the police minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63615	Mrs. Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63616	This government was formed on five targets in 2008. One of these five goals was to step up the fight against organised crime, crime in general and corruption. I don't think it's an empty word or an empty promise or a goal that's so declared, but that with concrete steps taken from the very establishment of the government, even to this day, we have shown that we are committed to that goal. Of course, there were many problems, that it was also necessary in a normative sense to perfect our legislation and strengthen the institutions so that they could respond to that goal. I remind you that in 2008 more than 250m euros were taken into account in this respected home. On this occasion, I would like to stress that one of the biggest confiscation of assets was precisely in the case of corruption, in the PIC "Zemun" case, because of the abuses that were then happening at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I am talking about the time of 2005, 2006 and 2007. I also want to point out the fact that we have proven through our work that there really is no protection and that all those who have been found to have committed crimes, the criminal act of corruption that we are now talking about, have been brought to justice. Enough to say that in 2007, a major survey on the perception of corruption was done by our citizens, where the judiciary was then presented as another profession of corruption, in 2011 when we did research similar to a large number of respondents, the judiciary was no longer placed in corruption professions. Why did I deliberately spread my answer? Because of this, if we do not have honest or decent people in the judicial system, we certainly cannot be determined to fight corruption. Although I am willing to discuss every topic, however, pre-criminal proceedings cannot be the subject of conversations, except within the police and the prosecution as authorities who are competent to investigate such phenomena. So, as I said, so far, we've shown no protections. For all those who prove to have committed crimes and what is also very important to say – for which there is evidence will be to initiate proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63617	Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63618	You really said a lot, but you didn't mention Mr. Branko Lazarevic, who, I repeat, was head of the cabinet of the police minister. A report by European and world-wide institutions monitoring corruption in the world tells the contrary to what you are saying, saying that the degree of corruption in Serbia has increased compared to the situation when the government took power. You've been talking very nicely about the seized property, but I see these days and this case of leases. Obviously, Serbia as a state has nothing of it at the moment, because you cannot rent it. You complain that no one will take it, and then some MPs have to rent that property, so I don't see what your argument is. I want to believe that the judiciary is less corrupt than the previous period, but then it's back in favor of my claim that obviously, if you say so, you think that there's something positive done in the judiciary, but if the police situation is the way it is, it means the police aren't. If a gentleman named William Infante, a permanent co-ordinator of the UN in Serbia, says this, and he's saying it, I guess we're going to argue now, at a regional conference. I was surprised that the police showed up here, and I immediately saw some contributions on TV that said they were corrupt, in fact, by these traffickers who pick up some red, as the citizens say, so they don't write a ticket. It's solved by technical issues, car cameras, cameras all over the place, regulations, laws, and that's settled. They're not the problem, the problem is, like everything else in this country, procurement and the problem are individuals. I gave you an example of an individual in the police department. Obviously, based on what I heard from you, and I have information from the police myself, I wouldn't stand up and say it, everybody knows it, if I didn't have information about, let's just say, that this case wasn't investigated until the end, especially money laundering and giving away official secrets. I'm not saying that everything about cocaine in the case of the Saric Group and ours has not been investigated to the end, a little bit more by the US DEA and by our agency BIA, but I'm asking you what it was meant to do, because that money was involved in privatisation. Some businessmen such as the mentioned Jerkovic were involved who directly accused the mentioned Branko Lazarevic of betraying the official secret, i.e. that he told them they were tapped. That's what the Evening News published. They were supposed to publish 15 parts, only the first two parts of the transcript of the entire statement at the main search, not in the pre-crisis procedure where Mr. Jerkovic spoke. After that, it stops. The "evening News" came to an end the other day, only the first two pieces were published.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63619	Mrs. Malovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63620	I'm fully aware and I'm sure you don't know what you just said. You said you had information that someone committed a crime and that you received that information from the police. That's terrible. I will warn you that, as every citizen, and with an even greater degree as a national MP, you have an obligation to report a criminal offence if you know it, and if that person from the police is giving you information, and he didn't give it there in the places where the proceedings are being processed, it's for real concern. So I don't know what to say to that. As far as you're concerned, you mentioned a lease from the seized property that can't be realised. I'll tell you that the amount from which we get as a directorate in charge of the seizing property management at the monthly level is worth 20,000 euros from the lease. So it's not true what you said. Also, I wish you this opportunity, too, and to point out that taking away property in itself has a great meaning, because it, on the one hand, makes it impossible for those perpetrators to continue to deal with it. This government also had the will, the determination, the strength, the willingness to deal with it. I don't think the previous governments were ready for that. You mentioned the Charic case, let's get back to the Charic case. Four tons of cocaine has been seized, what's four tons of cocaine? An impressive figure when said in tones, but what's the value of seized cocaine? It's worth a billion and 200 million euros. Sounds like an imaginary number, but very real. Money from that cocaine, one part of that cocaine money came to Serbia and through privatisation procedures in 2004 and 2005, and 2006 and in 2007 was washed in Serbia. I don't think the government at the time was ready to deal with organized crime. As far as I can tell, you were then an MP for a party whose minister was Minister of the Interior. I think that's enough to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63621	Mr. Shormaz, you have a word, or two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63622	That's what I've talked about more than once, your job would be something else than trying to intimidate the MPs, especially me. You can't scare me. The other thing is, I didn't say what you said at all. I said I had information that the money laundering and the secret was not investigated until the end, I didn't say that anyone had given the information that someone who committed the crime hadn't been reported or so. So I didn't say something like that, so get a stenogram and you'll see. So, I said no money laundering and official secret was investigated until the end. Cocaine was seized in Uruguay, not here. What are you talking about in Uruguay, Argentina, I think he's been seized in Uruguay, but it's all one thing. So there's no cocaine seized here so you can talk about a billion and 200 million dollars. Most importantly, you did not mention Mr. Branko Lazarevic in a single word. So, I didn't mention him, he was mentioned in court by the accused witness Jerkovic, and that was carried by "Evening News" in two parts of the felton, and it was supposed to be 15. Who was so nervous that he didn't let go of the whole felton and why the Evening News broke up and you didn't answer that. But no problem, all of it will be, of course, investigated in the right way and of course everything will change when a better law on public procurement is passed, not the one you propose, and when e-government is introduced, e-commerce, and of course, e-procurements (electronic procurement), when everything is public and transparent, and not the way you work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63623	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63624	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in front of Serbs in the north of Kosovo and Metohija, it is a difficult winter when it comes to security and freedom of movement, but unfortunately, it is becoming more and more frequent to limit electricity. By this year through the trafo station in the village of Valac near Zvecan, consumers from the Pec County were also supplied, but after the construction of a new trafo station south of Ibra for East and Pec, electricity does not have to go through Valac. Four municipalities from northern Kosovo and Metohija have practically remained in the ring. What is certainly not an EPS issue because, above all, the Government is, what it intends to do to enable our fellow Americans, at least these basic conditions for life. Or maybe I should rephrase the question and ask, is this some kind of economic pressure on people who are on barricades? After the Serbian authorities accepted, in fact, all the main requirements of the Albanian side regarding cadastrian, customs, civil and other acts and documentation have obviously moved on to solving a more global task, which is to embody the recognition of only Kosovo's declared independence by Serbia. As this has been constantly happening in recent months, the trial balloon on the plan to advertise new Western initiatives related to Kosovo and Metohija has again been the head of the diplomatic presidency of France in Pristina, Jean Francois Fit, in an interview with the main Kosovo newspapers in the Albanian language, Kohaditore, has found that the current dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina delegations allows to address technical issues, which depend on better people's lives. However, according to him, a different conversation, which he called d dialogue, will be needed afterwards. A smaller dialogue will help the parties build trust so that they can lead a bigger D dialogue, Fita explained. Furthermore, Belgrade has accepted that it itself is working on obligations related to Kosovo and Metohija under the CEFTA agreement, which is a document on the establishment of a Central European Free Trade Zone, which was ratified in 2007 by Albania, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Croatia, Serbia, BiH and Kosovo. In it, Pristina was presented as a mission by the UN Organisation for Foreign Administration Affairs. However, following the February 2008 unilateral declaration of independence, the province's Albanian authorities, with the support of most other participants, treat their status as state. All in all, it means UNMIK based on Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, which does not double-species the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the entire Yugoslavia, replaced by EULEX, based on the plan of Martti Ahtisaari to confirm Kosovo's independence, the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija took away the Security Council in which Russia and China stubbornly and despite Belgrade, the EU, the United States, practically the idea makers of Kosovo's independence and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63625	Do any of the government's representatives want to give an answer? Actually, I didn't get the question, but he might need to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63626	The question is any reason for the exclusion of electricity to Serbs from the north of Kosovo and Metohija, or what is the state planning to enable them to do there?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63627	Since there's no answer, he'll get it in writing. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63628	I have two questions. I was hoping Mr. Predrag Markovic would come, but I expect to get a written answer to that question. Given that the protection of copyright is a standard in Europe and the world, I am interested in whether the fact that there are disputes between the music authors' associations, e.g. "Sokoja" and others and RTS as the National Public Service in respect of the execution and non-implementation of obligations towards authors, can this have a negative impact on the reputation of Serbia and on whether and what has been done to resolve the dispute, especially given that even the General Assembly of the International Confederation of Associations of Authors and composers addressed our bodies in a certain way even two years ago? I expect an answer to the second question -- how does the ratification process of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement take place, how many countries have ratified the agreement so far, and when is this process expected to end? I hope I can get an answer to that question today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63629	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63630	To this first question, believe me, I don't know the answer, I didn't even know there was this dispute, but we're going to pass it on to the Secretary of Resor. As far as this second question is concerned, I don't think only two, three countries have yet to ratify. Today we had ratification from France. What we have as a promise is that other countries will ratify that, in other words, this circumstance will not affect the issue of candidacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63631	Mr. Markicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63632	I have a question, a request, a request and a notice from Mr. Prime Minister, and today I am more interested in his role as finance minister. Mr. Minister, when I adopted the budget rebalancing for 2011, I had one amendment that I wanted to provide some funding from the budget for the construction of the Centre for the Daily Stay of Children Disrupted in Development. I participated in the Finance Committee since my amendment was rejected, but together with your associate, I hope that you are familiar with this, Mr Nikezic, the Secretary of State, and with consensus and goodwill and the wish of all present MPs from all MPs, it is agreed that the town of Cačak write one request, one application to the Ministry of Finance and intervene from budget reserves. That's what I did. Namely, the mayor of the town of Cačka, Mr. Velimir Stanojevic wrote one request, one application showing that the town of Cačak in this year envisioned 20 million funds for the tendering project and for the location. I don't mean to be pathetic, but once with a family, with children distracted by development know what I'm talking about. Mr. Minister, I note that this Centre for the Living Stay of Children Disrupted in Development will not only be for children who, unfortunately, there are also plenty in Čačka, but also for Požeg and Gornji Milanovac and Lucana, therefore, for several cities around Cačka. I submitted that request on November 10th. I've got confirmation and it's been seduced by the Ministry of Finance. For good faith, I would like to say that after a few days, Mr. Nikezic, the secretary of state, called me and got a little more information about it. It was November 14th, and I got the impression that he hadn't even looked at it in four days, but after 14, there was no answer. I expect you or you to say, of course, you can't all know, all the demands that come from Serbia, but I think in this case you should respond positively. In that request, Mayor Stanojevic did not write how many funds, but we think it is the turn, since we see where all the money is spent, that together with the town of Cačka, as well as many times so far and the state, that is, the Ministry of Finance is involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63633	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63634	I have to say because of the procedure, of course there is a desire to resolve this problem and that the state is participating it, but we simply can't respond to a request that isn't digital. That's why I'm going to order the services to contact you again, to discuss the possibility of participating the Republic budget. So you're going to make a new request that this time will be explained by the number and then we're going to solve it in this calendar year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63635	Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63636	I apologize if I haven't been, Mr. Minister, precise enough. The number exists in that request. It's a lot of documentation where you can see the project and computerically how that building will look and it's the height of the amendment I've given, so that request exists. We have experience, I would not now praise the town of Cačak and the mayor of Mr. Stanojevic, but he is in the shape of how these demands are made, so if there are funds in these budget reserves, you can make that decision right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63637	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63638	While I was giving the answer, I got the information that this case is in the process, so it'll be settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63639	Thank you. The word is Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63640	Mr. Minister, I'm going to thank you in advance, but please, we've taken a great commitment and I, not wanting my function, its importance, to compare it with your function, to resolve it. I would use these two minutes that I have to sort of comment on what in recent answers to other fellow Members said, let's say, Mrs Malovic. If I don't know and have no proof and so am I raised, Mrs. Malovic, I won't speak for anyone, but I can tell you what the people think. Mr. General, we've been talking here recently about a man who is 33 years old who lost his health in Kosovo. He was defending the state of Serbia, defending this assembly as well. We're talking about we don't have the money, and we have the money for the vaccine, for the imaginary pandemic, for the imaginary flu, and it's still called pork. I repeat for the hundredth time, let him punish me as much as he wants, and everything was there except for the flu. Why do Serbian citizens think that the state of Serbia has not arrested those who are guilty but that there may be an innocent victim there? Do you have any idea why the people of Serbia think he didn't arrest whoever did it? Are there any political reasons? You're saying we don't have the money, and we have a few million euros in vain for vaccines. I didn't even get an answer if those vaccines were destroyed after their deadline expired, I think, October 31st. So we have money for an imaginary pandemic, because it's clear to everyone that there was no pandemic and now we're going to slowly cover it up, there's a campaign going on, the government can fall. I'm expressing my suspicions, I have no evidence that the real culprits have not been arrested. Believe that's what 90% of Serbian citizens think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63641	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63642	Good to see you here somewhere, Mr. Cvetkovic. It doesn't matter, the one I think I'm going to ask first is still in the O.R. It is simply difficult to resist such temptation to ask such a question. I will refer the question to Snow White Malovic. I'll give you a brief introduction, and then I'll go to a specific question. We waited a week and a few days for a session of parliament to adopt the KIM declaration, announced by the ruling coalition, and then, as Mr Mirko Cvetkovic said in his previous presentation today, the idea gave up because the appropriate majority had not been found for a decision. What kind of a decision would be the National Assembly, we can only think about it, if we were to fantasize, we don't have anything concrete, but based on the reports we've received so far from the Serbian government negotiator, Borislav Stefanovic on the KIM Committee, we might be able to picture and delete such declarations. If what Borislav Stefanovic negotiated in talks with representatives of Pristina and what he concluded as agreements on the government's position, then the government should operationalise these agreements until the end, carry them out, implement them into action. I do not qualify for the arrangements, for me are disastrous and probably for most of the citizens of Serbia who have looked at it, have had the opportunity to see what this is about and where this is all about, but the simple question here follows – what is the internal situation in the Serbian government and I am curious, as a result, who is behind Boris Stefanovic and his activities. When a regulation was adopted on a specific way of processing the data contained in the parent books for the AP KiM area, what was the position of individual resolution ministries? We already asked that question last week. The question has not been answered to this day, and believe me, the citizens of Serbia see it and hear it, it is not difficult to answer. It doesn't take you 15 days to answer that question. At the time, you were gone, a representative of the government, today you are there and there is no reason not to get an answer to specific questions immediately. I am interested here, of the present resolution ministers, here is Snezana Malovic, who is a representative of the Ministry of Justice. Please, what was your ministry's position on this regulation? Did you have an exceptional opinion and how was this reflected in the regulation? I know the regulation was made at the government's telephone session. Is there a written clue to that? Can we ever see him here?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63643	Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63644	I will simply tell you, on my own personal behalf, what my position was, since the Ministry of Justice is the pronoun of the regulation you mentioned. So that says enough that I was in favor of that regulation, and not only was I, but I suggested it. Therefore, the inscriptions in the newspapers that appeared simply are not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63645	Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63646	Well, of course, you mentioned it yourself, the information that got to the public was quite different. Since, of course, in our country, in one, let's say, in a funny sense, don't take it literally, "and the walls have ears," what you hear, it's somewhere and from some sources that come from your ministry can be confirmed. But, well, you can do one thing or say then at internal meetings, in phone conversations and pre-prepared written documents, and the other is what ends up formally and appears before the government. The question that arises is very simple – why, on the basis of which, by which law did you propose, and the Government passed such a regulation? I read the title of this regulation, it was published on the Government of Serbia website, later on in "The Official Messenger". What does this regulation contain? The fact that it is subject to regulation by this regulation is something that is in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in such a way impossible. Namely, this Regulation regulates relations. She doesn't serve in law enforcement. Her essence, her content, that's what it is. See for yourself the provisions of this Regulation. What he writes there is the result of the realisation of the agreement that Borislav Stefanovic reached in agreement with Edith Tahiri. That's what you're trying to do through the regulations. But that relationship that was regulated in that regulation has no basis in the parent law. He's gone, and you can't find him, except to make things up, except to weigh something that can't be strained. The subject of this Regulation is practically legal regulation and it must come before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if you think that any relationship is regulated differently from what is regulated in the basic law. I ask you most nicely to answer my question-- are you aware of this, which I have answered you, and are you aware that this kind of action, especially if the consequences of this have a disintegration of the territorial integrity and territorial integrity of Serbia, can cause both criminal responsibility for you personally, during and after the mandate you are leading?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63647	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63648	I must admit that I didn't understand the first part of your discussion. Is that what you're trying to say and convince me that I wasn't for something I was for? As I told you in response to your first question, not that I was, but I suggested. The answer – why did the Ministry of Justice propose this regulation, is because the Ministry of Justice is competent to apply the Personal Data Protection Act, since we were also the promoter of the Personal Data Protection Act, which was adopted in the National Assembly in 2008. You asked me – what is the legal basis for this regulation? I'll tell you it's article 13. The Act on the Protection of Personality Data, whose title is – Processing by the Authority of Authorities. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will read a full member who provides a legal basis for the adoption of such a regulation – The Authority shall process data without consent of a person if the processing is necessary for the purpose of carrying out operations under its jurisdiction under certain laws or other regulations in order to achieve the interests of national or public security, the defence of the country, the prevention of detection of investigations and prosecutions of criminal acts of the economic and other financial interests of the state, the protection of health and morals, the protection of rights and freedoms and other public interest, and in other cases on the basis of written consent of the person. Therefore, the legal basis for the adoption of this Regulation exists. The government adopted this regulation. Whether she is constitutional or not, that is the only thing that is relevant for her to say by the Constitutional Court of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63649	Mr. Aligruditch, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63650	You've simply honored me with what you've read. Thank you very much. You helped me, shortened the time of my two-minute comment, so I don't have to read it. In the text of Article 13 of the Law, which you have stated, there is no betrayal of the country and of the state interest. It doesn't say that anywhere. That's what this regulation and the ones you're planning to do. That's what you do. I say this without any twisting, because I am convinced it is because the citizens of Serbia already know it. What does it say there? What can Article 13 write, on which you have led yourself to the conclusion that you have the right to implement the Borko Stefanovic and Edith Tahiri agreement, which is contrary to the interests of the Serbian state and which in an explicit way recognises the sovereign rights of the sovereign independent state of Kosovo? Where did you get this idea and tell me how you found the basis in article 13 of the law that says a complete technical matter, when it comes to the application of that law in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? What are now the exceptional circumstances that are regulated by this regulation so that you would regulate these exceptional circumstances as a different relationship in the implementation technique? It's a legal matter. But you are not allowed to come here and you are not allowed to come to the Serbian Parliament with confirmation of what Borislav Stefanovic has agreed, because, as you say, you allegedly recognised the independence of KIM. You recognize the independence of KIM by your every act, everything you do. What you said at the outset is, you weren't in favour or you were against, and what the views of the secretary of state are, let it serve you all honorably. In the end, everything will come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63651	National MP Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63652	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, I really don't understand why you're pretending that you haven't heard from my colleague, the government of Jeremic, who came with KIM two days ago. It was part of an SRS delegation that visited Serbian barricades and Serbs in KIM and told you that the government of the Republic of Serbia imposed sanctions on Serbs in northern Kosovo. The question is very clear – why did you impose sanctions on Serbs in the north of KIM? Why did you introduce them with power restrictions, electricity? These people, for a few days, have more than 24 hours without electricity. We see that all other parts of the Republic of Serbia have electricity. Who runs the EPS? The government of the Republic of Serbia. Why are you cutting off the power for the Serbs at KIM? Why did you bring in the VAT? The US Embassy directly asked you to stop funding Serbs in the north of KIM and put economic pressure on them to give up your fight to give up their demands. What are you doing this for? That question was asked by my colleague Vladan Jeremic and you have to answer that. It's a matter of first-class national interest. I'll remind you, Mr. Cvetkovic, this is how you commit the crime of Article 307. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, violation of the territorial continent. In this respect, the Criminal Code is very clear because they are punishable and preparing the store, and that is precise in Article 320. He says the following - preparations also consist of removing obstacles to the execution of a crime as well as other actions that create conditions for the immediate execution of a crime. You are jeopardizing the territorial continent of the Republic of Serbia by imposing sanctions on Serbs in the north of KIM. You are helping to commit this crime, and we are really surprised that the state prosecutor has not filed a criminal case against you, against Boris Tadic, against Borko Stefanovic and against Minister Bogdanovic, because you have committed the crime of Article 307. Criminal code, violation of the territorial continent. It's one of the most serious crimes, and you'll have to answer for it, sooner or later. Don't act silly not to hear the question. Another thing that puts the Government of the Republic of Serbia in grave danger... (President: You know what, so you can't talk to the Prime Minister.) It's really one rude thing to do, and I'm not going to let that turn out again for sure and that kind of non-culture. Please, you can't tell the Prime Minister what you said. ) Madam President, I have quoted Article 307. Criminal code. It's a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63653	And besides, time's up, you don't have another word. Don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63654	Dear People's Messenger, I have heard calmly what you have said. I understand that you claim that the government of the Republic of Serbia has imposed some sanctions. I want to tell both you and the citizens that that's not true. Not only has the Government of the Republic of Serbia not imposed sanctions, but it has its full capacity to help our citizens living there. It helps them both directly financially and in every other way and our people are there when it's the hardest and our people are trying to, in the conditions that exist and in the situation where this territory is not under our control but under the UN's protectorate, to do what's best for those people there, and we will continue to do so. Therefore, there can be no words about any sanctions here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63655	Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63656	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with your answer. I specifically said what the problem was. So they have been deprived of electricity and citizens of the Republic of Serbia have electricity in other parts of the Republic of Serbia. So if you deny someone electricity for 12 hours in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and they are connected to the power grid of Serbia, as we are in Belgrade, as are those in Novi Sad, then you have no excuse for what you say is not happening. So that's reality. They do not have electricity downstairs, and you need to order Serbia's Elektroprivreda and establish a normal supply of electricity to the Serbs at KIM. You don't have a better task now, because you can cause a humanitarian disaster down there. I began to ask another question – why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia put the people of Belgrade in grave danger, because it does not want to demine the NATO-Pax plane that has been on the Starboard since 1999, under a residential building, under the houses where people live, where children play? If it explodes, a large number of people can die. I asked Dragan Sutanovac several times. He finally replied that he had not been in charge since 2009, and was until 2009. He says some other people are in charge. Look, we're not talking about funny things here. They said the government of the Republic of Serbia does not have 250,000 euros to demining the NATO-Pax plane. Wait, Miskovic, Beko and other DS and SNS sponsors owe you five billion euros of unpaid contributions. You give 30m euros to sexual minorities in Serbia from the budget. They know who the citizens are, and you don't have 250,000 euros to save the lives of the citizens of Belgrade. It's just that I can't understand. What's that Gilas of yours doing, except he's talking nonsense, so the Russians don't know how to build Metro. The Russians have the best subway in the world. That's what he said at the US Embassy, and that's what you have at the US Embassy's dispatch in Belgrade. So he concluded with the French the agreement to build a subway, with the French who threw poor uranium. As a result of that poor uranium, our children are still suffering today. Where is your health minister's health strategy from the consequences of the 1999 NATO aggression? Why wasn't Zeolith thrown into the field where uranium was dumped? It absorbs up to 80% of the poored uranium. There were projects for you, but they weren't realized. Why? The culmination caused by NATO aggression, 10 years after that aggression, happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63657	Time. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63658	What I'm saying is that in your questions, you come from some conclusions that indicate a completely opposite of reality. When you say why the government doesn't want to deminise, someone on the side who listens would think that you've organized yourself, started demining, and then the government stood in front of you and said: stop, don't. That's absolutely not true. Of course, I also want to tell you that I don't know that there is such a great danger. If that's true, we'll find those funds and we'll demine it. Of course, accusing the government of stopping those who wanted to solve it is really one inappropriate way, at least I wouldn't tell you something like that. Also, when it comes to electricity, there is, of course, an electricity industry that is responsible for supplying it. If there are any restrictions, there must be some technical reason. The government has not given anyone a warrant to impose any sanctions or to treat citizens living in Kosovo in any other way. On the contrary, as I said, the government in full capacity and in every way possible helps these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63659	Just sign in, Mr. Minister. Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63660	I'm surprised you're so uninformed, but as you know, there's a strategy conducted by the VMA that concerns several ways of testing, and above all, research on children, whether there are consequences of the fact of the poor uranium. That's what VMA's office does. In the framework of the Department of Prevention Medical Protection, all those people, i.e. The soldiers and the reservers and the population who came in contact with the ammunition with the impoverished uranium. It's a large-scale study of post-traumatic stress syndrome caused by the bombing. Therefore, it exists. If you didn't know, now I'm informing you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63661	National MP Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63662	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Health Minister, as you know, we in the SRS have been very well informed, and among other things, we are reading NATO pilot statements that participated in the aggression against the SRJ. If you'd read the report by Spanish pilot Adolf Luis Delaos, who piloted the plane "F 18 Super Hornet" and participated in the aggression, you'd know that they were not just throwing poor uranium, but that they were throwing combat chemical poisons. So he states very precisely in his statement. Looks like you haven't been notified of that. Also, they threw substances that poison crops throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I asked you a concrete question – why is there no national strategy to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia against the consequences of NATO aggression? She had to come here to the National Assembly and be adopted, as well as some other national strategies. Maybe you don't know what the procedure is in that case when it comes to national strategies. The Americans poisoned the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only on KIM, but also in Belgrade, Novi Sad. That's why we have an increase in malignancies, among other things. America still kills in Serbia today and will kill anyone who knows for how many years, while you are nearing it. It's about electricity. The fact is that the Serbs in KIM do not have electricity and I am glad that we finally understand each other and that you understand that you have to act and provide them with normal power supplies. When it comes to an unexploded NATO-aggression plane, the government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to protect the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, it's your responsibility, it's your initiative, you're the executive authority, you have to defuse that plane bomb.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63663	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63664	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I would like three questions. The first question is for Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister – what happens to the initiative to build the highway Pojate-Kruševac-Cacchak? At what stage, how far did this come and how is this project developing, very important for the citizens of Kruševac, Vranjska Banja, Trstenik, Kralje and Cačka? The second question is for the government of the Republic of Serbia. I have repeatedly contacted many ministers because I am often contacted by wartime military disableds from the last wars. People say – now that a law on the employment of disabled people has been passed, they are praying to somehow provide an advantage for these people when they are employed. I am often contacted by Dejan Petkovic from the village of Dučović at Cačka, the man has a wife, a nurse, nowhere to work, lost his hand on Kosaram and is really praying that he will be given a job, him or his wife, especially now that there is a possibility of hiring disabled people. The third question is for Mr. Cvetkovic – ask, please, representatives of the SRS why only after 12 years inform us that this bomb is standing there on Starar? They were in the government in 1999 and 2000, so why didn't they put her away? Ask them why after 12 years, they inform us that Serbia was bombed by these radio-active means? Why didn't they tell us that in 1999? When they beat them so well, they could put the bomb away, the constitutional obligation was the same for them, the government law applied, and to take care of the security of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63665	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63666	About this highway. When this government was formed, the priority was to end Corridor 10 in all its directions, from north to south and this eastern leg to Bulgaria. We've completely closed that part in financial terms as a construction. Certain parts are finished, other parts are in work so no longer need to be dealt with by anyone along the way, it will be completed, especially these parts that are in work. The funds were provided and had a financier. In front of the new government that we need to form next year, we are now considering what infrastructure is supposed to be significant and to provide funding and start work, and that's mostly exactly the direction you mentioned, but not just him, but practically what's called the Corridor 11. So that's the way from Belgrade to Preljina through Obrenovac, Ub, Lajkovac, etc. And the connection this time with Corridor No. 10 and that's exactly the direction of the Pojate-Kruševac-Chak. I have to say, the funding talks have also gone pretty far this time. One part of them will probably be finalized for these governments, some parts will start to build. But, of course, the next government will have a mission to finish it. We've started some of the shares for which the contracts have already been signed, but the negotiations are under way with the big financiers who should definitely close the financial structure, first of all this Corridor 11, and this cross-border relationship is our top priority, so I think it's going to be practically the first task of our new government next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63667	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Mrs. Zlati Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's respected representatives, Mr. Prime Minister, in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I am running for the following issues, above all to Mr. Prime Minister and I hope that he will be able to answer, not to me, but to the public of Serbia. It's a question that is related to the agricultural pensions that we've repeatedly asked here and we haven't received an adequate answer. In fact, the government is in debt to farmers based on pensions for a considerable amount of money. I'll be so gentle. Farmers, waiting for that money, expect it to come, of course, into some corresponding interest, but it has been announced several times for four years that these pensions have been paid, that this debt to farmers has been settled. But that's not true, they called today and asked us to ask. Here, I ask that very question – when can they expect it? Of course, you know that in this country every debt of an individual to an institution, to a state, according to any obligation grows with interest, so they expect this debt in their direction to be with the corresponding interest. The second question is for the Minister of Education, who is not present, but I think the Prime Minister might answer as well. Did the government manage to cope with the recovery of schools that died in the King’s earthquake, since until recently they had been cut short, since we are entering winter, since schools have begun to cope by speaking individually. However, these are state institutions of particular importance, and I think it's a priority to predict the means for this recovery to end, so we're interested in how much has come to this? The third question, Mr. Dulic is not present, but on November 1st, a Cairo so modestly informed Serbian citizens that a useful permit for Vinca to become a nuclear dump was pending, so we are interested in who should give this use of permission? Who came up with this fantastic idea to create such a dump in Serbia? Serbia will have serious problems with such a deposit. How familiar can the public be with the possible consequences in the first place? I don't think we're technically ready for one such step, one such adventure. The poverty we find ourselves in and the crisis is not an excuse, because even the poorest countries, not the EU, not Europe, and not everything, have not taken this role, no matter what poverty they were in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63669	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63670	Dear People's MPs, I'll try to answer some of these questions, and maybe they'll stay for written answers. As you know, after democratic changes since 2000, the governments that were then formed, I mean first and foremost the government of the late Djindjic, and later they met with very significant dubiosiss that occurred in the previous period. They had to take these dubious things upon themselves, to resolve them. There were from old foreign savings, which were practically spent, to various obligations for pensioners, loans for Serbia's rebirth, etc. These obligations were settled in such a way that they were transferred to public debt and then the state took the obligation to service the public debt. In this context, very significant funds remained to return to pensioners, where there were two groups of pensioners. One group is regular pensioners, and the other group is farmers' pensioners, as you call them. Since the amount was very high, which was taken to pay, the state was weak, then it was agreed to pay it in the wars, with later wars carrying the corresponding interest, so that they would not be inflationally secured. In these 10 years of various governments, from 2001 to today, a good number of these debts have paid off, a significant share of foreign exchange savings, although we still have until 2016 to pay about 300m euros annually. As far as pensioners are concerned, so far all the backlogs have been paid when it comes to regular pensioners. When it comes to farmers, since their pensions were relatively small, then a smaller number of wars were made, but in one war there were more outstanding monthly pensions and it was also paid off, with the exception of the big war that was not paid to them. The idea was to make it worth two years ago, but there was a crisis, and then it wasn't possible. This year we planned it and that amount will be paid in December, of course, increased by interest, so that pensioners farmers will get those funds. This is a bit of a broader elaborate, since I've already given the answer to that question at this session, and since you've asked it again, I assumed you'd want a wider elaborate. When it comes to the question of kings and earthquakes in the King, I think it is not too much to say that the reaction of this government and the state to what happened in the King was probably a reaction that, for example, occurred in any disaster in this country. In just a year we took care of almost everyone who had lost their roof, although the earthquake was extremely strong and rightly appeared some who had been damaged in earthquakes 10 and 15 years ago, so they remained unsolved. A major solidarity action was made in the King, where budgets were used, but also personal. Let me remind you that the jury accounts were also open, they were television shows on which we invited citizens. This generated significant resources, and we used these resources to provide citizens with a roof over their heads or financial resources so they could buy construction materials. We also launched some other requirements regarding obtaining international funds when it comes to larger buildings and also budgeted certain funds, and that these are areas that are within the authority of the state, such as education, health care, etc. What I have information is that this is about these schools, but in particular and in more detail, it's better to inform you about it by the Resolute Minister, because I only have insight into the global picture. As far as the nuclear dump is concerned, I have no information about it and you will also be notified by written notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63671	Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63672	I thank you for your comprehensive answer. As far as agricultural pensions are concerned, I understand that this is an inherited obligation, but the public of Serbia must know that, as you said, these are the lowest pensions and these are the people who paid their pensions themselves, with their hard work. Now that they are expected and they have the right to what belongs to them under the law and under labour law, they are usually in a very difficult state of health, so in the name of them I ask you to hurry this part of debt to them as a government, because here are four years, and they still haven't received that debt. However, as for schools in the King, I am really interested in whether in this year, in this budget that will soon be in front of MPs, are all the funds defined, planned, planned, because schools should not wait, so that they are not in a situation that they appear individually to us seeking help with the recovery of earthquakes?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63673	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63674	My colleague Đeric, I apologize for being outside at the moment, so I haven't heard your question completely, and I understand the state of schools in the King. As the government of the Republic of Serbia, through the resolution ministry, and with the help of Serbia's economy, we have put schools in a position to work and that students attend those schools where they were before the earthquake took place on November 3rd last year. We have an unresolved question in several school facilities. I must tell you that I was speaking as a minister at the time, which is the fact that we still need to invest in those schools, and I have promised that if we are in a position to realise a single loan from the European Investment Bank, we expect that some of these funds will be spent on improving the state of schools in the King. Why do I say part of that money? Because we're going to call a public call, compete and apply all the conditions that the law provides. As Deputy Prime Minister in charge of talks with financial institutions, and as a resolution minister, we already have the information that we will spend half of the funds, it is a sum of 13m euros, and we would like those funds, which is our intention in relation to the documentation that has come to us, to discuss the public call already, and to find their place and schools in the Kingdom, while at the same time talking to all local self-governments in Serbia to deliver information, if they have not already done so, whether there is a need for investment in the infrastructure of schools, so that, together with the consultant chosen by the European Investment Bank and who has been working for several months, they would make, in relation to the state of infrastructure in Serbia, criteria, that the rest of the money, at about the same amount, would be distributed again on the basis of a public call. So, it is planned to spend around 27m euros on these needs. The intention is to finish this job, say, by June of next year. I'm saying for example, for reasons that I can't time limit the length of the length of the construction of these criteria. In any case, all the money that's going to be part of these loans we intend to spend on infrastructure and improve the state of schools, whether it's a roof, whether it's hygiene, whether it's energy efficiency, whether it's the interior of schools, maybe small sports halls or something like that. The point is, with as little money as possible, we achieve the greatest effect. By the way, during the term of this government we managed to still school in the King, and during the time that was limited at the beginning of the new school year, you know that we failed to bring everything into the desired state for the reasons that there were certain tenders no one to report, but we managed not only to solve this issue objectively, but for these three and a few years over 850 objects we renewed. The value of the funds invested for each of these facilities is over three million dinars. We will succeed, practically by May of this year, to complete a cycle of some 28 new schools, about 20 of which will be completely new. These were renovated and brought into a state as if they were new. So we tried those resources that we had available to create one effect for education. Right away, I think it is not enough because Serbia needs to systematically invest in the development of education, not only through professional training, not only through the part relating to the curricula and the programme, the textbooks and the rest, but also to investment in infrastructure. If we have over two and a half thousand objects in which we haven't invested in decades, if we have a situation that is over 500 objects that are over ninety years old, then you can imagine the state of each school. Thanks to the people who work and care for these schools, they look much better than they could conclude compared to their age. It is indisputable that in a longer period of time, regardless of the composition of any government, we must invest in education, infrastructure, so that the situation in schools is appropriate to what we want to get as a result of the education system and the future of Serbia, because without education there is no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63675	Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63676	I thank you for your comprehensive answer. I suppose what you just said means that the elementary school "Dimitry Tucovic" located in the center of the Kings and which is the most affected by the earthquake in this way will finally come to the physical hall they deserve. As for Vince, I really expect an exhaustive answer, I think that the Serbian public really expects an exhaustive answer on the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63677	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question was addressed to the prime minister who is also the finance minister. Unfortunately, he's not here, he's probably got a little bit of work to do, because of the power or something I don't know. My question was addressed to him as a doctor of economic science, as a finance minister and as prime minister, and concerns a concrete economic indicator. Is there a bone benefit analysis of the so-called "bone benefit". road to the EU? In particular, what do we get from EU candidacy? We consider and study all economic indicators, not these propaganda and pointless, whether we get something from that candidacy. We have come precisely through data that government officials, specifically Mr. Ognjen Miric, who is responsible for IPA funds that are presented in our public as some rescue funds and as something that will increase after receiving this famous candidacy, have come to his recognition that winning the candidacy will not change anything in the IPA funds, so we do not see why such euphoria is in political, economic and legal terms present in getting the candidacy. We also do not understand how it is possible that, at a time when money is going from Serbia to the EU, it is so insistent on something that is completely unproven in economic terms as something that is good for the Republic of Serbia. We'll give you another example, we're sorry again that Mr. Finance Minister, the prime minister is not here, and that's the neighbouring Republic of Macedonia. She, as you know, won a bid without starting negotiations in 2005, and has prepared that candidacy even more than Serbia has. The Action Plan for the alignment of the legislation of the Republic of Macedonia was adopted in 2001 and much more has been done in this legal sense in the neighbouring country, but, behold, there are fewer salaries there than in the Republic of Serbia, although they have been running for almost six years. We are not clear from the economic, legal and political aspects, because this EU is in fact taking 15% of our territory, but why do we now have one kind of euphoria that must at all costs be granted a candidacy that brings us nothing in fact in economic terms? Moreover, we believe, and we are not the only party in the Republic of Serbia that is absolutely against the EU, not only because they take 15% of our territory, but because, we have also shown in previous exposure, harmful in economic terms. My particular question for Dr. Economic Sciences, for the finance minister and for the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia – is there a "bone of benefit" analysis, whether there is an economic argument that tells us that we should follow this pointless dog that the EU has no alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63679	The answer will be given in writing, since you are exclusively asking Mr. Prime Minister. So is there a "bone benefit" analysis of the importance of joining the EU and gaining candidate status? The prime minister will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63680	The question of whether the EU has no alternative, no one thinks it does. What we think is that there's no better alternative. We have an alternative that was shown twenty years ago and, of course, such an alternative exists now. What is a fact is that unlike some other EU countries, relatively small and none of them, regardless of their level of development, can count on them to survive local markets. That is why the EU, even the largest countries, types of Germany, England, France, etc. They saw that it was better for them to join the EU, as you know, originally formed as a community relating to the economy, and subsequently it proved that it was not enough and that it was going towards the creation of a political union. In that sense, if you think Serbia is individually as a state, that it is an alternative to it, I simply assure you that you are deeply wrong and that it is impossible for a country with seven and a half million inhabitants or a little less introvertible, to rely on itself and thus ensure a better life and standard of citizens. That is why I say - the EU has an alternative, but the EU is the best alternative for Serbia and its future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63681	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63682	I don't think we understand each other. You weren't there. My question was very specific. I asked you again, as a doctor of economic science, as a minister of finance, as a prime minister. I asked you about the "bone benefit" analysis, whether it's more harmful or useful for us to try so headlessly and in one uneconomic way at all costs and to harm our economic interests to enter the EU, more precisely to give up the works of our national interests because of some kind of candidacy that has brought nothing? I gave you a concrete example, this is the Republic of Macedonia, about the country's economic standard, which has been running for six years, after six years, there is no higher average salary than the Republic of Serbia, even on the contrary. As for what happened 20 years ago, I really didn't realize what you were going to say. I asked you about the future. We can talk about history now, all sorts of things, what happened 20, 50, 100 years ago, but it's not a topic. Here is the theme of our country's future and the future in which the arguments that you are for the EU are without an alternative and us who consider that there is an alternative, not what you say is just isolation and such a phrase, but we believe that the Republic of Serbia should join the customs alliance with the Russian Federation and the other countries that do so. I'm giving you an example here that we have an alternative. On the other hand, you must be like the man who runs this government that's facing the so-called. European integrations know that by Article 28. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, i.e. works of the Lisbon Treaty when and if the EU receives the Republic of Serbia will cease to be a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. You can't be a member of two customs unions at the same time, that's the whole problem. Please answer me specifically without any historical returns, 50, 100 years and so forth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63683	Here you go, sir. Mr. Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63684	Of course I agree with you that it is not good for us to join the EU in an uneconomic way and headless way. This government doesn't exactly do that. She does it with a very deep thinking and in exactly the economic way. If you want to open the polemics on the subject of what is more cost-effective for the state of Serbia and to look at the performance of trade, where we are most directed, where we are not, etc., of course that is possible, but I think this is actually, I should say, this session concerns questions and answers and there is no possibility of opening an academic debate. If you open up, say, a round table or something, I'll be happy to come and make arguments and figures why I think this alternative is best for Serbia. Of course, Serbia is considering these other countries. You know that exactly with this Russian Federation, with Belarus, with Kazakhstan, even with many other countries, we have free trade agreements and we are trying to use it precisely for the benefit of the citizens of this country. They're also not without meaning and other great countries, so we're actually running one, per se, just as wise, not headless politics as you called it. I think that's how we're going to give citizens a better life in the coming period than they unfortunately do now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63685	MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63686	Excuse me, you're the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm a representative of the opposition party. This isn't some academic debate, it's about the most important issue that you and the government have as a symbol of that authority have made here the most important thing is whether or not we're going to get a candidacy. I think it's simple, if there is a topic on topics in the Republic of Serbia, then that's it. So, is that so-called. A path without an alternative to the EU that is cost-effective in economic terms? I don't see what's abstract about it, or it's not concrete. It is simply a matter that concerns all of our citizens, and I say and the SRS, we all argue together that simply the EU is bad in economic terms for our citizens. What's more, it's a disaster. I'll give you a thousand examples that it's both economic and political and legal and whatever you want bad for Serbia. Not only because they're taking 15% of our territory and because they're shooting at our people down there, but simply here's an example of a concrete transitional trade agreement every year, and you certainly know it's coming out of our budget 130m euros for reducing customs duties on imports of goods from the EU. Second case. You have an external trade deficit that is primarily generated in exchange with the EU, which is around 60% and which has already reached 4.7 billion euros this year. So every year we transfer over two billion euros to the EU. A completely poor country, we agree, which is in transition, which has 7.5 million inhabitants, is helping to bring social peace to Austria, helps to social peace in Germany. Austrian firms get that the work of a bridge on Beška, they get a bridge on Ada, and these are facts, while our construction fails, while public procurement is precisely through a sublegal act, which your government brought to the EU in 2009. It's a source of corruption. Corruption driven by the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63687	The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63688	To continue, to take advantage of the presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture and to ask a few questions concerning my fellow citizens. Since I'm from the Ariel area, it's an inevitable raspberries theme. Just to remind you that in the first nine months, around 110m euros of raspberries have been exported, so I would not like to comment further on the significance of this product. Citizens not only of Ariel but also of the environment are interested in the following. I will refer to the events that were in the previous period and see what awaits us in the next period when this product is concerned. We all know that early August is due to price dissatisfaction, and the price at Serbia level is moving 80 to 95 dinars, or the average price is around 80 dinars. Compared to last year when it was 146 officially the average price, it's much less. There were protests in early August. A higher price has been requested. There were bloody protests in Ariel where there were bloody manufacturers and militia members, and the mills in the uniform were also producers of raspberries and there were comments, and we support you but we have to do our job for which we were ordered. These protests are calmed by promises that buyers can apply to the Development Fund to receive loans, and if they use these loans to pay 10 dinars or to form a price of 100 dinars. It calmed the protests. However, it is a small one of what is proposed, since the buyers, a small number of them have applied and even less have received loans. Whether they pay 100 dinars or not, we'll see. What do we do with those who pay 70 or 80 dinars? The first thing that a low-priced producer has been put in that position, we are now putting into the position of the buyer who is necessary on the market because they are not the same ones who paid the purchasers 70 dinars or those who are due to pay 100 dinars. It was a protest in August. After that, we had protests in September that were in Koserić, Baja Basta and Nova Varoša. The leaders of the government's protests have been received. They were in front of the government. They were received by Minister Dacic. The talks promised that within 15 days, Minister Dacic would meet the government and that the government would come out with a proposal and a position at their request. It bothers me that we don't have a state, and I don't know if you mind the leadership of these protests using that position, forming a political party, and they were in Brussels asking for help. I don't know if Brussels will solve the issue of the price of the raspberries or whether it should be resolved by the state, or by our government. That's two questions, they're looking for subsidies, to form a price, to pay 20 dinars, to be the final price of 126 dinars. I'm asking you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63689	Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63690	To remind ourselves of a public who is not familiar, a number of citizens who are not, of course, focused and everything that has happened. So in August, an agreement was made and the agreement is respected, starting to end. They were representatives, I remember very well 15 or 20 refrigerators from Aryl, all of them gave their consent that either in payment or in accounts, which is more often the case for this type of business towards the producers of raspberries will raise the price for ten dinars when they receive money from the Development Fund. On the other hand, they were representatives of the manufacturer, it's the Wilamette Association from Aryl, and they all agreed to a meeting in the government that was and so the protests ended. He agreed to one of the later leaders of the protest who made it perfectly clear, I'm not going to mention his name now not to advertise it, he's advertising himself on the other side. He peed and began to deal with politics, but this is a free country, and that's proof that the raspberries were not his basic subject, but his political career, so here's how he set things up quite differently. The Development Fund will also hold a session that should be held within days, and a number of loan requests will also be set on the basis of this agreement. I'll answer what I think would be a good idea to be a decision of the Development Fund Management Board but at least four of which is one, two of which are actually very large they got loans from the Development Fund and they've already made calculations in which they've increased the price by 10 dinars. The whole time these protests, I'm talking about August protests, the duration of the Ministry of Agriculture had a very clear position that we are not in negotiations with the owners of the freezers, nor with the producers of the raspberries, but we are doing everything in our power to make arrangements between ourselves. That deal was then reached as said. I think it would be very good and technically justified that all of these that have now applied to the Development Fund first raise the price and then get loans, or to make new accounts, because that's okay and that's fair. The Development Fund has shown that it is fully prepared to do whatever is in accordance with the agreement. Therefore, those who have sought these loans, and of course meet the conditions, cannot make decisions contrary to the Statute of the Development Fund. So it was never a topic to talk about. All those who meet the requirements of the seeker if they meet their end of the deal, I'm talking about coolers, making a new reckoning, and making that 10 dinars more than they've ever been before. I don't think there's gonna be any problem getting the money. Later, as I said, I can conclude that everything has become more politics than economics. We have one new party and that party will, I suppose, try out at the next election. I think the news we're getting about how they happen in different meetings around this topic suggests they're not on the right track, but it's just not our topic right now. What I want to say in response to this question and to inform the public about it, meetings are held every day at the Ministry of Agriculture with different associations of raspberries producers. So this is not figurative, literally every day people who are in charge of this matter at the Ministry of Agriculture are holding meetings. There are very serious technical discussions on how to gather all the necessary elements to make a whole new policy. So, we're not making a new policy compared to 2011 and 2010, never this raspberries policy was made. Now we're trying to make it, I believe we'll succeed by talking to all the interested parties. So, we talked all October, we talked all September to have a policy ready for 2012. The policy also includes how we are going to provide fertilizer for raspberries producers now that this thing is already up-to-date, but it will also be current in January of the month, to provide them with more favourable conditions to cut their costs. When they cut their expenses, they'll make more money. On the other hand, we want to see what is necessary for ice-creamers, because they also have their own economic problems and have high interest rates. Some of them didn't trade well last year. They did not sell raspberries when it was 2.7 euros in exports, waiting for the price to be over three euros. The price, unfortunately, went below 2 euros, was 1.7. They've made major business failures, and it's all life. It's all life and we're trying to help everyone within the capacity and capabilities we have. I believe we'll find good solutions. So we work on it every day. Anyone who deals with the production of raspberries has full notice of it through their representatives, these people who are united, not only from Aryl, but from Koserić, people from Novi Varoshi from Pribo, Ivanica, Lucan, I apologize to those whom I did not mention. So there is not one single place in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that we are not talking to representatives of the producer of raspberries, but also today and we are trying to find the best solutions, establishing that production is and finding the capacity that the state has for them the best solutions. I believe this is what happened this summer and this fall is the last time. The last time this kind of thing, when it's not just a raspberries, we want to make one policy for fruit growing in general, and here if the raspberries were the trigger, then the other fruit trees have one completely predictable process. This is why we deal very much with the juice producers, with the conditioning industry, because these are the great consumers of fruit in our country. We look at all the needs that ice-cream owners and those who would like to become, to see how to provide favourable loans, so that they can improve their freezers, because that's for the benefit of the fruit manufacturer, too. I want to inform you that stock reserves aren't what they used to be. Stock reserves no longer have debts, so stock reserves will become a very important document in the implementation of state policy. Generally, when it comes to agriculture, especially when it comes to fruit growing, this kind of thing will no longer be repeated, but we will try to create for people the more predictable circumstances and possibilities for fruit plantings that they now have, but we are also preparing, and we are now starting a debate in the government about the budget. We are preparing very serious plans for the development of fruit growing. It's one of the biggest resources Serbia has, the climate we have, the land situation we have. We've got enough water. We can make a lot of money on fruit production. A large number of our landowners can make a huge income, because this average area of property that is somewhere between two and three acres is adequate so that we can allow people to make a lot of money in fruit production.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63691	The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63692	I don't want to deal with politics, politics is on the sidelines, I'm just interested in what my citizens, raspberries producers can expect, what price for last year, and what can they expect in the next period. What you're saying is that now we have to solve, it was a story two years ago, that in December and January we need to know what we're going to do in the next season. The next question I would like to ask as a question, you point out that you will see about artificial fertilizer, which is exactly what I would like to ask the next question, and I put it in writing in June of last year, and based on the government's regulation on subsidized artificial fertilizer, where you planned 210 thousand tons in 2010 to subsidize 10 grand per tonne, or 10 dinars per kilogram. My question to you was for the Goldibor County under that regulation, where the natural persons, i.e. the owners, could use at least 20, and not more than 150 tonnes, cooperatives 1000 tonnes, institutes, etc., who used it in the Zlatibor district. I got an answer from you on June 23rd to search the stock market, because it went over the stock market, no one was using subsidized fertilizer in the Goldibor County. It is 12 - 13 municipalities of the Zlatibor district. Since I'm from that space and I know what's going on, I didn't stop at it, but I also got the answer from you yesterday that in 2010, in the same year that I got the answer that wasn't used, that 32 applications were filed and that the Goldibor County was used for the spring sowing of 9,900 tons of artificial fertilizer. The table says that the subsidy was 16600 dinars per tonne, i.e. 16.6 dinars per kilogram. This was used by 39 users in the area of the municipality of Arilla. Three users are from Uvac, Novo Jasenovo, Zlatiborska Borja, etc. And there were 7,000 tons of them in the Aryllian districts. Do you know how much that is? That's what three cooperatives used 1,000 tons each. Of those three, I hear for the first time, and the rest are natural persons, i.e. landowners, who used 150 tons each. For those 7,000 tonnes, the state has set aside at these prices of 16 dinars, if we translate. Some 104 million dinars to translate into euro, that's a million euros. I don't think any of my fellow citizens made raspberries or any other product buried any of that fertilizer in the ground. That, gentlemen, is 350 hats. There's nowhere to park. Please answer me if you have control over the use of these subsidies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63693	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63694	You know that these measures are no longer applied and that this year there has been no subsidies to mineral fertilisers. Control from this perspective is not possible anyway. We've changed certain elements of the policy. I think we're establishing a balance based on the possibilities of the budget. Of course, I'm talking about this year's budget. That budget was adopted before the government was reconstructed. What could have been the modification of this budget in terms of both the needs that have arisen and the changes in prices and the different conditions, related to agricultural production, have been done. I think in the most productive way in the given circumstances, we used the money. We're going to have a serious debate both in the government and then here in parliament about what agrarian politics will look like in 2012. But from the point of view of all citizens, I think we've obviously managed to do a few important things, which is that we have, above all, full stability in supplying the market, which is, of course, the result of balanced agricultural production and state reactions in those points and in those segments where destabilisation could have occurred. So, first of all, we have a perfectly stable supply. On the other hand, as you can see from month to month, there's a good way to move the price of basic life supplies, and I think we're in a really good track. Serbian citizens, I can say this now, in 2012, they can expect us to have a continuation of this stability in supply, and that we will no longer be victims of stress when we enter the store in the morning, or open a newspaper, that prices will continue to move in this direction. So we will have very significant proposals and I expect that we will also go to parliament here with a round-up agrarian policy very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63695	National MP Milan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63696	I asked you about the subsidies that were used in 2010, and I brought up all this stuff that was going on. For 2011, you'd say it wasn't there. But how was it possible to predict in 2010 that the ownership we know could be registered, that it could use 150 tonnes? This doesn't require any household in the premises of the Zlatibor County. It could take 10 tons at most. The question arises – where did the subsidies go? The Serbian Radical Party advocates subsidies in agriculture and is increasing, what was in the budget last year and next year, to be as large as possible, but to benefit producers. Who took advantage of these millions of euros that Serbian citizens through various ways gave subsidies to agricultural fertilisers? Who took advantage of that? Only for comparisons, that million euros to be divided by raspberries, could have been subsidized by a kilo of 10.00 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63697	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Agriculture and to ask one very important question, which is – how many IMT and tractors – IMR and Dragon today have employees? What is the annual production for domestic and foreign markets? Also, what is the foreign exchange inflow of sales and how much do we import tractors, because we know that Serbia today is Europe's largest cemetery in the import of agricultural machinery and tractors? Is the government planning to grant subsidies related to the purchase of new machines, new tractors and can these tractors in some way bow to agricultural producers, so that they can arm this good Serbian country? The second question is likely for the Prime Minister – how many state-owned enterprises have multiple privatization contracts been privatised and the reasons for the termination of the contract, as well as how many workers from first to last privatisation have lost their jobs? The third question is for the Minister of Education, and that is, what is being done to suppress the presence of pedophilia? We've seen especially these days in elementary schools, where certain, to say, delinquents try to use it in juvenile pornography. I ask for an answer – how many such cases are registered today in Serbia? The fourth question is a question I would probably ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, but he's not here today. I believe you will know how to answer his question. How much will we know and be able to use the global economic crisis to solve a very difficult economic crisis in Serbia? We know well that both the Deputy Prime Minister and the former finance minister say that the global economic crisis is a crisis that will be used to solve this major economic crisis today in Serbia. I'm afraid that's not a promise for a doorman or perhaps for Mr. Vice President of the government. I have been asking this question several times, that it really gives me an answer – how and how will this global economic crisis be resolved or solved, but for our benefit, to solve our economic and economic crisis in Serbia? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63699	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63700	On the answer to your particular question, since it is the power of the Ministry of Economy, we will very precisely prepare around the IMT how many workers there are and how it goes with the realization. What I can tell you is that we have a subsidy to buy tractors. It is also the measure of the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there is one programme that I have been thinking about for three years. From the funds of subsidised loans, it is now the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, up to today about nine million euros has been placed on the shareholders' banking capital to buy the machinery. Most of them are tractors, but there are bigger agricultural machines. There are tiny, or connected machines. So about ninem euros from banks were taken by agricultural producers this year. It's an 8% interest in dinars. She's unchangeable. It's up to three years' worth of credit, and I think we've taken a good step. In any case, these loans will not be more unfavourable in 2012. They'll be back. If we have opportunities, they can be more favourable. We are considering different options, with the Ministry of Finance, but also with banks and insurance companies, to increase the payment deadline for these loans. Unfortunately, at this point, they cannot be in dinars because of the banking rules and the Central Bank. I think we'll be able to find the best possible solution. A very important and big question is to replace the old park of machinery that our farmers have. The situation in Vojvodina is significantly better than in the rest of Serbia. On the other hand, I expect that we will have some changed way of deciding the farmers themselves. It's good that they join together and take machines together, to spend money more efficiently. It's not exactly in the spirit and tradition of the way our citizens deal with agriculture. But I think we're going to streamline costs already in 2012, and that's very important for people to make more money, get more money from less money invested and make more money. As I said before, very soon we will have a fully-rounded agrarian policy for next year, and this will certainly be one important part of that policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63701	The Prime Minister would like to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63702	Dear People's MP, I'd like to answer the second and fourth questions. The second question was – how many failed privatisations and how did this affect employment? Approximately, according to the information I have, they may not be the last, but from a month or two ago, approximately unsuccessful privatisations were between 20% and 25%. Let's say there were one quarter of them, which means that out of four privatized enterprises, three privatisations were successful and one privatisation was unsuccessful. The failure of privatisation is a privatisation in which the privatisation contract is not respected and the privatisation contract has been terminated by the Privatisation Agency and the company has been returned to state again, i.e. it was then social enterprises. You asked what were the reasons for the end of the contract? The reasons for the termination of the contract are actually disrespect by the buyer of what he signed to do. I would remind you of what these were standard obligations, so then disrespecting those standard obligations was essentially the reason the contracts were broken. The standard obligation was that when someone buys a company he must and invest in it. These investments he promised in the beginning were followed by guarantees, bank guarantees, which would allow the control body, which was the same as the Agency, to determine whether or not he was actually doing it or not, if he does not now, have the right to withdraw those guarantees and to de facto provide those funds. So what was written in that contract, unless it was respected, was one of the standard ways to break the contract. Of course, in auctions and small companies where they were paid in wars, the second obligation was, of course, the first one, however you wish, but also important, that all payments were made, some unfortunately were not able, which was also the basis for the termination of the contract. Also, the Agency for Privatisation, or the then government policy of the Republic of Serbia, was to prevent the company from being used for other purposes, in the sense that it has some resources, so that it is allegedly bought to continue production, and then systematically destroys and exploits these resources. So there were two other obligations. One obligation concerned the inability to make available resources in terms of sales, pledges, etc. for more than 5% of total. However, some did not stick to it, and in those cases there was a breakup. Finally, another important element of these contracts was so-called. Continuity of production. So it must remain in the same action for at least five years, and perhaps more, seven. The point was, he had to stay in action. Some who would try to change that without the Agency's consent also broke the contract. That's about your reason, and that's some kind of gauge. I don't know how many of these companies there are, but you can count on one to three and a half thousand companies to go through privatisation. So one quarter of that is the one that's considered unsuccessful. As this has affected workers, I must first of all say that privatisation, in principle, leads to a reduction in the workforce in companies. Privatisation is a way of raising efficiency. Raising efficiency implies that you achieve the best possible results with as little impulses as possible. Since labour is also an impute, there was a decrease in labour force after privatisation, while maintaining or increasing production. This process, as it was imagined in its own time, was to be followed by additional investment, either what we call a greenfield or the opening of new jobs, or that these same companies, after a certain time, were raising their production to create a basis to employ additional people. In Serbia, the problem of unemployment is an acute problem dating back to 2000 and beyond. In fact, before that it was a fictitious job, so they were so-called. Forced vacations, non-payments for months, years, so non-payment of pensions and pensions, and that's what we talked about today. After the state was put in place, i.e. that the state should be arranged, this led to the need to pay for all that is going on. With all this in mind, we've recorded high unemployment rates, and that's often forgotten. Around 2005 and 2006, she was close to 20%. After that, there was a decline in unemployment, so in 2008, we waited there with plus 16 and, of course, in 2009, when the crisis started, then the investments that started new jobs stopped, and the crisis itself led to the problems of people who were working on production. Then our unemployment increased from 16% to 22%. I think that is the problem that is most important in Serbia at the moment and that we must face and fight this problem. In the end, I would say two or three sentences about how the crisis in the world can help the crisis in Serbia. First of all, the crisis in the world is causing a crisis in Serbia. So if we're going to say it helps her, yes, it helps her be a crisis here too. However, I don't know what kind of statements he made, but the fact is that the beginning of the crisis in Serbia has shown one thing, which is that the growth model based on a high GDP growth rate based mainly on services and other services, that is, everything that is not said to be the subject of international exchange, is already based on the domestic economic market. The crisis has shown that such development is unsustainable. This is why the government made a long-term programme planned from 2011 to 2020. The programme in figures, due to the announcement of the new crisis, will most likely not be achieved, but will be achieved in terms of one orientation, which can already be demonstrated because we had a very high growth in exports after 2009. This is what this country has to count even more on, in the future, on the external market and not just on its small market, and through that export growth it will iron out an external trade deficit which, by the way, is quite large. To a surprise, during this crisis period, we have achieved a level of coverage that has been the largest since 2000 and so on, the degree of coverage of every imported dollar or euro with exports is now the largest. Let me conclude on this fourth question. The crisis is causing a crisis, but it can reveal some delusions and allow us to plan a future with more knowledge and more information. I'd rather the crisis in the world didn't happen, then we'd avoid it, and we'd have a better standard of living and a much better perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63703	Thank you, Mr. President. The word has a minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63704	Mr. Zivanovic, about the cases you have discussed in the education system, they are isolated and individual cases, taking into account the number of students, and the number of employees and, of course, the number of schools in which teaching takes place. I'm saying if, because only after the procedure and the educational inspection has been carried out at different levels, especially other state authorities, one can say final court. Of course, if the facts confirm such a thing, and sanctions are appropriate to the work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63705	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63706	Thank you. I'll just answer a few sentences or say which is why I'm not satisfied with certain answers. The first question - somewhere around 108 tractors, how much the government has agreed for Ethiopia and Egypt, from three thousand to five thousand, how much IMT produced. As for the production at the Dragon Factory, that's where the production stopped. So, as far as the metal agricultural industry and tractors are concerned, it's under question, and it doesn't work anymore, so to speak. The current agreement, which reportedly employs 900 workers, is in fact one of the flossules that citizens of Serbia want to be deceived or workers in a pre-election campaign. As for the response to the global economic crisis, which would allegedly be either a crossroads or a guideline in which it could take advantage of Serbia's chance with its failed economy and economy, I cannot agree with you, because at the World Science Forum in Budapest, where I was a few days ago, I must honestly tell you, big producers, big countries, they actually become food monopolies, where they want small countries and EU consumers and their food produced. So, we can talk fairy tales here, talk in a pre-election campaign and what's nice for the ears of citizens and the biggest and most bloody workers today, peasants, and thanks to their work and what they've achieved in the surplus of their goods we're sitting here today and getting paid. That's what we have to say. By the way, all the things we talked about, your theory where you talked about how the economy should work, I have to tell you, it exists in theory but not in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63707	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63708	I just wanted to say I'm asking you not to twist my words. I didn't say for a moment that the crisis was a chance. On the contrary, I said it was bad that there was a crisis in Europe and the world and that it was much better that the crisis was not. Also, I said the only thing that was useful from the crisis was that we saw what we couldn't do anymore and what we should do in the future. But far from being happy for the crisis, so I can see it. Absolutely, I didn't say it, nor did he accept me saying it – it's a crisis and we're great. No, I don't. The crisis is something that, unfortunately, happened and where luck was that there was no crisis at all, but that we could continue to grow by 5-6% a year. Where would we end today?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63709	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63710	Thank you. This second question I asked about state-owned enterprises, how many times they were privatized, I must honestly say that the restructuring that was a prerequisite for sale or after the 5-to-octobarian revolution and these crisis headquarters that were metriculous to preserve these companies, but we see how they were preserved and how many companies bought today and how much and how much that money could have been controlled and how that money was earned. So, the way of that money, from privatizing and buying certain companies. That's what I'm telling you because I'm a man of industry. There are only two companies in Šapac that have continued their trend – "Farmakom" from Šapco and "Intercom", a construction firm. They continued to employ, that is, this privatisation, because these are the only companies where there were no objections. Other companies, more than 30 in Šapec, and you know well, Mr Petrovic, how and in what way have they been privatised and which companies, in some way, been kidnapped and how many are in that city today, plus in all cities across Serbia, unemployed? Over a million. And we're talking about the degree of economic power today in economic production. We totally fell asleep. We can only live off this trading lobby that imports everything and these import papers get from the ministry, gentlemen. You're the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. Why don't you look at how many certain ministers have become wealthy during their term of office? And how much could a farmer, a worker, or a businessman get rich? No, he couldn't. And how much wealth there is today and how much who's won for the last 10 years since you've been in power, look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-24-0.u63711	Since no one among the reported wants to ask the question anymore, we end today's session in which MPs ask parliamentary questions to government members. I thank the members of the government, the ministers and the Prime Minister for being with us today. I thank you, honourable Members of the people, for your participation in the work. We'll continue our work Monday, November 28th at 10:00 p.m.
