ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50209	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a delegation from the Serbian parliament visited the Albanian town of Pierre, where, since September of last year, with financial assistance from the Ministry of Diaspora of the Republic of Serbia, a Serbian language course has been held for dozens of participants. The MPs spoke with students and their parents who are Islamic religions, originating in the area of Sjenica, and who settled in the late 20s. The leader of the Serbian community in Pierre, Ekrem Duljevic, expressed regret in talks with lawmakers that his request, filed two years ago, was rejected for obtaining Serbian citizenship. Representatives of the Serbian Parliament said they would seek to review the case in Serbia's competent authorities, as well as allow it to obtain country documents. I would ask for an explanation or a notice from the Ministry of Diaspora – is this a promise of MPs also valid for Albanians and Bosniaks who, in the '50s and '60s, moved massively to Turkey, and not only those who escaped in two wars, because there are many requests for the return of citizenship they had in the earlier period, since they were born in this country? Also, in this conversation with MPs in Pier, the following information is given: children learn from textbooks in Cyrillic, issued by the Institute of Teachers and Teachers from Belgrade. The school building features inscriptions in Serbian and Albanian, as well as the flag of Serbia and the flag of Albania. I would leave the flag issue for a later period, because this issue is very problematic for us, rather than encouraging the question of textbooks, because since August of this year, a procedure for obtaining consent, from the Ministry of Education, for the Bucharest for Albanian children in schools from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. There's still no consent. It was previously handled by a Bucharest in Pristina, which lacked agreement, and there was a lot of promise that there was no problem in obtaining consent for a Bucharest from Albania. Unfortunately, it's not over by now. The school year expires, and there is still no permit for the use of Bucharests without talking about the problem of hundreds of textbooks from first to eighth grade, for all four years of high school in Albanian schools, for which there is absolutely no approved textbook, because so far they have been used from Pristina, and now there is no license for these textbooks. We ask the Ministry of Education for information on what will be done because September is very close, and we do not have a clear situation, because at present, as I have said several times, as far as school textbooks in this area are concerned, the situation is chaotic. There's no uniform practice, and it's a single country, it's a single school system, and we don't have the same practice from school to school. In this country, institutions have not provided adequate textbooks. Now there is no authorisation of textbooks from Pristina. And as far as Tirana is concerned, the Bucharest has not been approved for eight months. I ask the question, very seriously – whether this problem can be considered more seriously for a very short time and whether there can be answers to the relevant questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50210	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50211	I would like to ask the same question to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior. What's this about? Statistics suggest that the largest number of traffic accidents on the Raška-Kingjevo road take place in the Ibari gorge. The other day, we had a terrible event that a whole family had died, or one boy of five was left. A doctor came from Ustaza by ambulance, took the kid, took him to the "Studenica" Health Center, where he was examined by a pediatrician, and the child went further to Kragujevac. What's the problem? The problem is that the ambulance should be adequately equipped for such interventions, and this didn't have everything that should be inside, so, even though the doctor was in the car with the kid, the kid died. I ask the representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior, the Department of Traffic, to look at the problem, because the largest number of car accidents occur right in the Ibar ravine, due to various climate and other conditions. I'd ask them to see if it's possible for the Health Station of Ustasha, which is located within a hundred kilometers, someone to be a donor or to provide such an adequate vehicle, so they can intervene in the event of such accidents. I think that every human life is precious to us and that this would be a harmless help to the citizens in that part of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50212	Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50213	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an inevitable topic in the Serbian public, have recently been financing political parties and, above all, the financing of political party leaders. I have personally repeatedly warned against the fact that SNS are spending tens of millions of dinars, and it was particularly expressed in pre-election campaigns, despite the fact that SNS is the only party in the National Assembly that does not receive a single dinar from the republican budget. This is a logical consequence of the fact that they were not even in the elections, but they gained mandates by stealing resignations, later by supporting the DS when they needed to be taken away from them. This support and this semi-secret love between DS and SNS has been going on for a long time, through direct financial and media support, which through closing its eyes to the obvious abuses of advances. Aleksandar Vukic, SNS deputy president, insists in public that he is not on anyone's budget and that Serbian citizens are not supporting him. He said of "Blic": "I am not on a holding budget and I am not paid by any institution, no assembly, no government. I'm nothing to you in this country. "That's where I agree with him. That's the only thing we agree on. He adds that he is employed at the profiler team agency and receives 78 thousand dinars a month. We've determined that the profiler team is funding Alexander Vukic, but who's funding the profiler team? It is funded by the citizens of Vozhdovac and the citizens of Zemun, of course, from the municipal budgets. How's that? Progressives came to power in Zemun in the second half of 2009. Immediately, the payments from the Zemun municipality’s budget to the company “Profijler team” started on November 11th, at the amount of 460,200 dinars, the second was, not a month later, but, on December 7, again, the same amount of 460,200 dinars, and the third was after 20 days, 30 December, again, 460,200 dinars, so that payment for just over a month amounts to a million 380 thousand 600 dinars. And, that's very, very, very advanced. At Vozdovac, the SNS came to power on 27 January 2010 and soon, then, the "Profijler Team" that pays Alexander Vukic, I repeat, becomes the beneficiary of the Zemun municipality's budget. We received a copy from the Treasury Office of the Ministry of Finance, from the Development Fund, and already in March was the first payment of 330,400 dinars. Then it starts regularly for a year, believe it or not, it was, no less than, 23 transfers from the Zemun municipality budget and from the Voždovac municipality's budget to the account of the company "Profijler team", and that is: the municipality of Zemun 14 transfers of 5 million 445 thousand 700 dinars, and the municipality of Voždovac nine transfers to the "Profijler team", which pays Alexander Vukic for a total of two million 973 thousand 600 dinars. We don't know what the point was. I told the Municipality of Voždovac – transport of goods and services, final consumption. What they were getting we really don't know, but given the amount, we need to know that there had to be a tender, and it had to be known exactly what goods and under what conditions they were getting. What is particularly interesting is that the municipality of Zemun is about the budget, and the municipality of Voždovac is about the Community Assembly Development Fund and needs to see what they have been developing: is it Alexander Vukic, Mitsu Rogovic, SNS or, as promised, the municipality of Voždovac? The SRS is asking the competent authorities to examine the financial operations of Zemun and Vozdovac municipalities! As far as I know, Budgetary inspection has already been in the municipality of Voždovac and has found numerous irregularities, but it needs Budgetary inspection to go to the municipality of Zemun and examine the co-operation of these two municipalities with the profiler team. We expect a response from the Ministry of Finance, specifically from the Tax Administration and Budgetary Inspectorate, as well as from the Department of Economic Crime of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50214	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50215	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the LDP on behalf of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, as regards the latest scandal that apparently caused Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic's address in the European Parliament, i.e. some political groups in the European Parliament, with unacceptable demands in relation to the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia, Mr Jelko Kacin. My question is whether the foreign minister's move is at the same time a reflection of the government's policy and whether the Prime Minister will ask himself, if he has already decided to finally become captain of the team, then punish him in the same way that he punished some other members of the government, who have deviated from the official state policy and who have given themselves the right to comment negatively on or dispute government policy, and towards Minister Jeremic? I believe in this, too, that we are the only country in Europe that has some ambition to become an EU member, whose foreign minister is so openly criticising, and in some cases almost offending the European Parliament's official rapporteur for Serbia. We had a situation in Croatia a few weeks ago. The European Parliament's rapporteur for the country, Hans Swoboda, questioned in some of its statements the certainty of Croatia's entry into the EU next year, so Croatia did not have such a drastic reaction as in this situation, past all diplomatic rules, did Minister Jeremic, commenting on statements or views of Jelko Kacin, who, I think, the Prime Minister, to whom I ask the first question, would agree. I do not know what is controversial in the latest statements of Jelko Kacin, is it that Serbia on the path of European integration would not currently be eligible for the elections? Does Mr. Jeremic have a problem with Jelko Kacin's position that the EU's approach is, in fact, the only hope left and that no one wants to take responsibility for the additional obstacles on the road that leads to it, etc? Also, is Jelko Kacin's view that Serbia, let's say, is the champion among Balkan countries in the fight against organised crime, etc? On the other hand, all relevant international players these days comment on the situation in Serbia, except the Serbian government itself. We saw this here yesterday and in parliament, a member of the ruling coalition, so Minister Jeremic or some other member of the government did not advocate that those who operate these institutions be "persona non grata". I didn't hear that anyone, except the SRS, asked the IMF and its representatives to become non-gratuaries. It's their political stance that I respect, but opposition. From the government, such an idea and such criticism did not come to the IMF's expense. In the last few days, the IMF has literally repeated those claims, which, in terms of the state of the economic situation and the social situation, are also presented by Jelko Kacin. One more thing is important. Finally, Minister Jeremic is practically a portfolio-free minister at the moment and everyone knows it. If he can't successfully lead foreign policy and European integration, then he shouldn't threaten them in this way. I think there's a very important job right now. However, I see that in this difficult situation, in the business of trying to evacuate our citizens from Libya, Minister Dacic, the Deputy Prime Minister has again taken over this responsible function and is handling the team. I think the different behaviour of Minister Jeremic would help us get help from some of the countries we can get help from right now, which are primarily countries in the region and EU countries. So the countries that can help us at this point would behave in a significantly different way if Minister Jeremic were to be impossible in this way to compromise our relations, above all with the EU and its official institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50216	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50217	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transfer, respected vice presidents, given that one long period of reason I was not present, and given what was happening yesterday in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would have one first question to expect from you, and then I would ask those regular questions, which I had imagined. I ask, is the ruling coalition in this moment, today, February 22nd, in the National Assembly at all, having a majority and is this a legal session? Do we work for nothing if yesterday the congregation majority did not have a majority? Is that the case today, and is this session legal? If there's not a majority, then we're not wasting money and nerve citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50218	Yes, and the session is extraordinary. I ask MP Dragan Todorovic not to throw it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50219	Since the vice president of the National Assembly said that 125, as we saw yesterday, most of the people in the National Assembly, I would accept that and ask questions that I intended to ask. The question is for the newly-roasted Minister of Health, Dr Rasim Ljajic, that we should not be at the end of the heart, according to the government's constitution, under the Law on the People's Government, he is most likely the Minister of Health for 15 days, I think there will be something more, but it also does not release him, because I believe he has voluntarily agreed to that function and obligations, so I would ask him to answer some questions. These days, especially in the city of Belgrade, a mass disease of some kind of virus, flu or whatever it's called, I'm interested in it, because of the former health minister who has legally taken refuge and escaped for deep personal reasons, I didn't get an answer, and you all remember that I asked seven days before December 31st when he highlighted the expiry date, or the duration of the vaccines that this country, unfortunately, has bought without need, amounting to about 20 million euros, so did these vaccines be destroyed? If not, where are they and what are they doing, since a large number of citizens have suspected that these vaccines are still being used? If these vaccines are possibly used, what are the possible consequences of repercussions and consequences? That's not what I'm supposed to talk about, I'm not a health care worker, I'm talking about the one in charge, and that's the health minister, Dr. Rasim Ljajic. Also, I ask the newly-roasted health minister Dr. Rasim Ljajic, what about Dr. Dragisa Misovic's hospital? I want to remind the citizens, in these two minutes that I have, and fellow MPs know what I'm saying, that the newly built part of Dragisa Misovic Hospital burned down in the night. Tens and tens of millions of euros went to the wind. Thank God no one was hurt. We have a wonderful case that in an hour over 300 single beds have been found. And those of us from Cačka have an emotional connection with Dr Dragisa Misovic's hospital in Belgrade, because Dr Dragisa Misovic is one of the biggest Cacans in history. True, he was left-handed, and those of us right-handed don't mind. He was a good man and a great humanist. We're so much more hurt, because after so many months since I first asked the question, there's no answer from all the state authorities. To be clear, I also asked the Minister of the Interior directly, Mr. Ivica Dacic – where did the investigation come from? What's going on here? Believe me, the first answer from the MUP was "incorrect installation". That's a classic answer. When someone whispered to me that it was a new facility, only built and stored for reception, and when EU representatives, who gave big money, had to come and control, first of all, the minister, who escaped, responsibly claimed that he had escaped for deep personal reasons, running away from responsibility, and I hope that he would not succeed in the justice to escape, and that he would finally file the accounts. That night, the hospital was burned, as was the hospital in Sremska Mitrovica. So, since there's a colleague here from the SPO who came up with the coin -- "Rasim, save me! ''Rasim, comrade, minister, doctor, I expect an answer within 48 hours, to answer these questions nicely - who set Dr Dragisa Misovic's hospital on fire to hide the great thieves, thefts and malfeasances there?- I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50220	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50221	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, as you well know, almost a month, more precisely, today is the 26th day of a strike in education. Every day, we get bombed as much as the school strikes, as much as it doesn't strike. I'm afraid that the Ministry of Education collects grandparents and frogs, because they mainly strike schools in large cities that have thousands of students, not strike small rural schools that have 40-50 students. In other words, today three-quarters of children attending school do not have a proper class. On the one hand, I fully understand the requirements of the educators, because compared to last year, they have a real relationship between 10-15% lower wages. On the other hand, by the government, we hear something that's true. The money's gone, the budget deficit can't increase and, of course, it can't. To this I would add that this deficit will be even bigger, because I doubt there will be optimistic forecasts about filling the budgets set out in the 2011 Budget Law, regardless of how we are bombed and convinced every day by the Government that Serbia is running honey and milk, I fear that the truth is much, unfortunately, different. However, it is not disputed to help education, but not only enlighten, the problem is that strikes are also suggested in health care. And let me remind you that education, health care, with the military and the police, are four areas that are certainly most important for one country. Certainly much more important than the various other consumers, the various agencies that are over 500, which even if they fail, I doubt anyone will notice, and these are institutions of vital importance for the state. So instead of constantly being parrots from the government repeating that there's no money, the solution is extremely simple and I'll remind you of what the D.S.S.S.S. represented at the time of the budget's adoption. I'll only mention four numbers, I could mention 404, but that's unnecessary and there would be no time, which would clearly indicate how things are. Budget, the expenditure of Serbia's budget, increased by 10.74% this year compared to last year. That's one number. The increase in education is 6.72%, therefore, less than that. The increase in health care, you won't believe, is 0.27%, so a hundred times less than that. On the other hand, spending, and it's mostly spending that goes to the government's expense is a little different. I could illustrate that to you on many examples, and I'll only give you one. For goods and services, I remind you of the number 1072 in this year is 17.67%. For goods and services, 47 billion were allocated, almost half of the total education budget, and 12 times the health budget. Therefore, the solution to this whole situation, and not just these, but, I'm afraid, and the one that comes is extremely simple – the government must urgently go before the Assembly to come out with a budget rebalance, that the little money that has been distributed fairly, to tighten the belt itself and some of its satellites, and that institutions such as education, health care, the military, the police, are going to say, at least, as much as it amounts to an increase in budget expenditure. (President: five minutes. To conclude, my question is addressed to the Prime Minister, I don't think the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance has anything to do with the subject, does he intend to urgently propose to the Assembly the budget rebalancing that would have been handled in the sense that I was talking about? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50222	Thank you. Does any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward to use their right under Article 286(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Before we move to a further session, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform the National Assembly that today we will have a joint single search on the 3rd item of the agenda, i.e. The proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011 and in the fourth item of the agenda, on a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011. If working on a joint single search of the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda requires that we work longer than 1800 hours, on the basis of Article 87, as I said, I am informing the National Assembly that we will do so and that we will end today's work by completing the debate on the 4th point of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, for the discussion of the 3rd and 4th items of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister and Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, has also called for the members to attend: Tanja Miscevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Dragan Radulović, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Milan Mojsilović, Brigadier General, Deputy Commander of the United Operations Command of the Army of Serbia, Milorad Peric, Head of International Co-operation of the Department of Defence Policy at the Ministry of Defence. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - A PROGRAMME OF THE DECISION ON THE PURPOSE OF THE YEAR'S PLAN ON THE USE OF SERVES AND OTHER ASSISTANCES IN MULTINATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2011. YEARS before we move to the opening of the 3rd agenda, MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50223	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I'd like an explanation. Did you suggest we have a joint discussion for the 3rd and 4th points? Just to be exact here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50224	People's MP, you don't need precision, I can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50225	You know, everything happens, just in case, to be absolutely sure of that, because we didn't adopt...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50226	In compliance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you can be absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50228	I have given notice of the course of today's work, believing that MPs should know what is planned to do during work from 10.00 to 1800 hours, i.e. in the case of application of Article 87, and after 1800 hours. So first the 3rd point of the agenda, and when we end it, we go to the 4th point, and we end the debate on the 4th point. We are working on the agenda, and MP Dragan Todorovic does not respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure on a request for an infringement of the Rules of Procedure. But you received a motion for a decision, which was made by the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Security, as well as a report from the Legislative Committee on the examination of the draft decision. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit their application for the word, with the order of the Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 96(4), because after the opening of the search, they cannot be accepted for a word. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs by these points of the agenda: Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenović PUBS MP, MP Dusan Bajatovic, MP of the SPS-JS, MP Jovan Palalic MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group, MP Mico Rogovic MP, MP of the Serbian Parliament, MP Zoran Ostojić MP of the LDP Group, MP Vlajko Senic MP group G17 plus and MP Konstantin Samofalov's MP group ZES. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. (10.45 hours) Does the proposing representative, Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50229	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Chairman, given that we have recently passed laws in this House concerning the engagement of our members of the military and other security forces in multinational operations, I will indeed, in short lines, explain today's proposal for the Annual Plan to use the military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, as well as make myself available to you to answer all questions. The Ministry of Defence, in co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior, has drafted this proposal of the Year's Plan, which is based on the law, and by this proposal you will have the opportunity to see, if you have read it, that Serbia is currently participating into five peacekeeping missions. You will see that in two peacekeeping missions we are independent, that we are in three peacekeeping missions within other contingents, and that we want to expand our presence – one enlargement that refers to the Middle East, to the UNTSO peace mission, which would involve two military observers, as well as enlargement in Congo, in which we would eventually appear with 36 people's water, according to the needs of the United Nations. And there's interest in Lebanon, too, where we'd also show up with 36 faces. What is novelty and what is foreseen by this plan, and I hope that it will enter into realisation after the signing of the agreement with the EU, which I expect to be signed at the end of February, which will be signed by Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, and for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister, and this is the possibility of participation in the first EU missions and will certainly be one of the historical facts, bearing in mind that the former Yugoslavia and the current Serbia have always, always, only and exclusively in UN missions. These missions, which we are negotiating, are missions in which we would participate symbolically, with fewer representatives of our army, but symbolism is so much greater that we are taking part for the first time in EU-led missions. By respecting the Law on the Army, respecting the UN Charter, we believe that Serbia must be aware of the responsibility, not only for its border and its citizens within our country, but we must be aware of the responsibility that is expected by our country and which exceeds our borders, and in line with all those countries that are now participating in peace missions, and believe me, you will hardly find any, parts of an important country in international political postulations that does not participate in peacekeeping missions. We want to increase our presence and thus increase our political influence beyond the borders of our country. The Ministry of Defence has so far hired 212 members of our army in various peacekeeping missions, whose composition, I stress, were 23 women, which means that there is also interest by women to participate in peacekeeping missions. It is also very important to point out that peace missions are only being carried out by professional members of the Serbian Army on a voluntary basis. Therefore, we cannot force anyone, nor can we make a decision on anyone's behalf. Let me explain - we call a competition for participation in a peace mission, and then the members of the army report to the competition and, if all the tests necessary are passed, they enter the lowest number of those who can, eventually, be sent. What I can say is that there is great interest in the Ministry of Defence by members of the Army for participation in peacekeeping missions, interest in both the command staff and those at a lower level, for a number of reasons. In addition to allowing a financial injection for those working in the military, which is important on a personal basis, but what is important for the military, that is, that the Army in real circumstances has the opportunity to perform certain operations that allow them to be in a higher degree of interoperability and training. Of course there are certain elements of danger, but I must remind you that it is professional members of the military, who have been identified for one call that is not on the list of easier calls, but a call that is risky and that call is equally risky both in the country and abroad. The funds that are necessary for realisation, you will see later, the annual plan's proposal, amount to around 640 million dinars, of which, about 107 million of which we get from a contract with the UN. Most of the rest of the funds go right into the hands of members of the Serbian Army who are engaged outside our country's borders, so any comment that would speak of spending money to be somewhere abroad doesn't match the truth. I would like to stress that we are spending money precisely on members of the Army, as well as that this money is somehow returning to our country and to our budget. This would be short of what we thought we should tell you. We're at your disposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50230	Do the committees want the word? National MP Dusan Bajatovic, chairman of the Defence and Security Committee? (No) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (Yes) National MP Konstantin Arsenovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50231	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the PUPS supports the proposed Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011. First of all, I think the proposed Plan is in line with the applicable laws, that part of the commitments made under this plan has already been taken over and, as the minister said, it is three new possible arrangements that would be in 2011. Surely, it is said that with our modest participation we are accomplishing a certain mission in the world in terms of ensuring peace and stability, as well as other objectives, and as otherwise stated in the explanation. Surely that's modest, it would be better if we could do more, but these are financial opportunities and circumstances. What's important to the public is that, mostly, where our forces are engaged, in most countries, the security situation is quite stable. It's the Ivory Coast and Somalia, but all the measures are being taken to preserve the lives of these people, who are in themselves a risk. So, PUPS supports this plan. In order not to report again for the next item of the agenda, I would have nothing new to say, I would say that we would also support a decision on the participation of members of the Army in multinational operations in 2011. I would especially like to take advantage of the opportunity of an authorised representative and make certain comments for the public during yesterday's debate, which were by some MPs. Before I do, I'd like to say one note. I am not angry at those MPs who criticise existing laws, regulations, decisions, etc., after all, sometimes I personally do so, with good intentions. But it is very important here whether these criticisms are well-intentioned or in order, in some ways, public deceptions and abuses. There were words yesterday about the problem of pay and pension. No one in Serbia can say that he is satisfied with the state of wages and pensions, and surely we would all like them to be bigger. However, the economic situation is that, and from the aspect of the pension population, I would like to say that we are the new pension system law in a position to share the fate of public sector employees. Therefore, as public sector wages grow, pensions will grow on a percentage basis. Clearly, if the economic situation is better, it will be better for all of us. But yesterday we heard the information, I'm not going to mention a person in Val's person receiving a pension of around 208, 400 dinars. Now there's a problem with the Retirement System Act. I didn't want to react yesterday because I didn't have the information and information, because I know the law regulates it differently, so I checked in the meantime. So it's about half-truths and lack of public information. It's about a person who has a double pension. For what she did in Serbia, and her internship in Serbia was one year nine months and four days, she got as much as she deserved in Serbia. For the second part of the pension he received in BiH, in 22 years, six months and a day, he received a pension in BiH. Therefore, it is not accurate that this person lives with about 500 dinars. It is even humiliating if such information is placed in the public and the information is incorrect. What I want to point out is that I don't mind pointing to problems, we're only going through discussion and discussion to solve and improve, but we're not serving the truths, the half-truths, etc. In that sense, I felt the need to point out this particular problem in front of the parliamentary group and at least make it clear, to see what it was about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50232	Five minutes and 43 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50233	Dear colleagues, I didn't want to report to the Defence and Security Committee because the session went quite smoothly and you got the report. I made an explicit call just for a few notes. So this annual plan is a legal obligation, but I again point to the role of parliament. Such decisions, which have previously been led by major controversy in our public, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, cannot be made without Parliament's decision, and parliament does not ambush without public presence. And, it is good that our public is absolutely directed at every use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces, as it is said here beyond the borders of our country, because, objectively, regardless of the establishment of political will and certain pacification in relation to, from a political angle, I think today, more or less, we still have the agreement that these arrangements are good for Serbia's image, good for the experience that our members of the armed forces or the MUP can acquire, on the one hand, and on the other hand, can be very bilaterally useful. I think that this fact benefits us from engagements in UN peacekeeping missions, including the fact that we can now join UN peacekeeping operations, but we believe that there is, more or less, political consensus in Serbia itself, so that this kind of benefit should be separated from those discussions and those, very often, unfortunately, and objective remarks relating to the engagement of international forces or forms of presence of the international community in Kosovo and Metohija, which sometimes do not comply with what we would like to see there or do not comply with what would be a good international norm. Of course there are, when it comes to KIM, and very positive international community engagements and that we rightly expect the issue of organ trafficking to be resolved in the context of the Eulex and the engagement of the international community, including the EU, in the right way. I think we finally have some real shifts in that. So I wouldn't tie it to this decision. As far as I'm concerned, the amount of engagement here is certainly accurate, it's 256 people from the military or the Ministry of Defense, since I'm assuming that surgeons and medical technicians may not be all of Serbia's armies, I don't know how it goes. They did? Great! But from the type of mission engagement and the expectations of these people, we can see that they will gain different experiences and I think it is very important for the members of the Serbian Army. As far as the MUP is concerned, we can see that there are 11 members. Why did I dial the number? I want to point out another fact. Mr. Sutanovac said how much it would cost us, I'll explain this budget here: if we say that for salaries, allowances and employees' fees, or profits will be allocated to 283 million dinars, I must say that I am very pleased. Yes, we have a professional army. Yeah, we don't want these people to get hurt, but it's good to have a decent compensation for this kind of engagement. From the other two figures that talk about training and preparation costs, 109 million, and the cost of purchasing a 53 million technique, which makes, in sum, some 160 million, we see that these people will not go unequipped and untrained, which I think is important to point out. I would not speak any further because everything else would be a political tightening angle, which every party or every parliamentary group has. I also want to personally assess that this has its own, both political and bilateral image, usefulness. I think that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior are taking care of the selection of the mission, and this can also be seen from the proposal, so that something, God forbid, doesn't happen badly, but we can still achieve those goals that we're interested in. In this regard, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50234	Five minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50235	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia's participation in multilateral operations and military engagement outside Serbia's borders has been defined in a series of acts and laws that have been passed by the National Assembly, which by other institutions, in addition to the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy, the military doctrine and the law itself, which defines this issue of Serbia's military participation outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. This motion for a decision at this point has several issues that I would like to discuss today and to present to the National Assembly and the public, which certainly question whether to adopt themselves in the National Assembly. One is the legal level of this issue, the other is political, and the third would call on the military's ambition to expand its participation beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the legal aspect is concerned, the question is whether, for certain missions, I specifically want to say EU missions here, the National Assembly can now agree that without any security agreement being signed previously. We have heard from Mr. Minister in the opening statement that this agreement will be signed very quickly and that a certain number of Serbian military members will be included in EU-led peacekeeping operations under the leadership of the EU, but at this point, the National Assembly should agree that outside the existence of any legal act. I will remind you that in the law itself, which defines this issue, it is said that it is possible to take part in peacekeeping missions, based on completed international security contracts, more specifically, that is defined by Article 7 of the Law. As for the political aspect, I will talk about what has been announced here, the participation of the Serbian Army for the first time in EU-led peacekeeping missions. There are a number of controversial political issues that certainly deserve attention and in no way can I get confirmation that Serbia should participate in EU-led missions under such political circumstances and relations with the EU. In the very explanation of this decision, we do not have one of the key obligations that exist under the law, which is that the participation of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces is in line with the national, security and defence interests of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't get the explanation of this point. We have received that it is necessary because of European integration. Perhaps in some broad context, from the point of view of this government's policy and European integration are of some kind of security interest and that this will define and achieve security interests, reduce challenges, risks and threats, but it is certainly not enough in this way to justify this decision, as stated here, but we have to hear what are the concrete defence and security interests to participate in this mission. When it comes to the UN, we have a duty, as a member of the UN, and the fact is, we respect the UN Charter. We are not an EU member, we are neither a candidate for EU membership, we do not have a signed agreement with the EU in the area of security policy, we do not need to follow a common European security and defence policy. In addition, I am now coming up with issues that, according to us from the DSS, are most controversial, which is what this European security and defence policy contains and how it affects the security of the Republic of Serbia is. The public may not be so familiar, those who deal with this issue know very well, that European security and defence policy is part of the common European security policy and that it has two aspects: both civil and military. We heard yesterday or the day before yesterday, in a statement here by State Secretary Tanja Miscevic, that Serbia will participate in both civilian and military missions under the leadership of the EU. The EU is about 20, making civilian military missions. Their website shows these data, but as far as Serbia is concerned, in the situation of signing such a security agreement, is the fact that it is one of the EU and EULEX civilian missions in Kosovo. Serbia, by completing an agreement with the EU in the area of security policy, comes in a position to participate in the EU civilian mission in Kosovo – Eulexa. Tomorrow, when such a contract is concluded, a request may be submitted to Serbia. In addition, the EU has its missions in Bosnia, Macedonia, after 2008, in a very politically sensitive area. Should Serbia, Serbia's Army or civil sector representatives participate in such missions as are politically very problematic, especially the presence of Eulex in Kosovo, which we all know is a direct function of implementing Ahtisaari's plan, which has never received support in the UN Security Council. I would also like to remind the Ministry's representatives here that in the National Security Strategy adopted by this parliament, Kosovo's unilateral secession has been declared the biggest security threat to the Republic of Serbia, with full rights. The question then arises how it is possible to bring this kind of security threat with the achievement of this goal by the government of the Republic of Serbia to participate in EU missions, which also plays a major role in supporting the institutions of the false state. That is what Eulex does, as part of the European common security and defence policy. I would like to hear about the level of ambition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia after the conclusion of the agreement, will Serbia have the freedom to choose which missions it will participate? This is the freedom of EU members. One Ireland, which declared military neutrality, and how it questioned ratification and entry into force of the Lisbon Agreement, precisely on participation in the common security and defence policy, i.e. declare their troops into those forces that the EU has and participate in certain missions. We who are not members of the EU have adopted a declaration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we are a military neutral state. The question is, do I participate in such missions that Serbia violates its own decision made in the National Assembly and comes out of the domain of military neutrality? We are not yet participating in any NATO-led military operation as a country that has concluded the agreement, which has joined the Partnership for Peace Agreement. We are participating, as the minister said, only in the context of multinational operations under the UN, but it is a question, and it cannot be opened as a question of whether we are coming out of the domain of military neutrality, but such engagement certainly opens the issue. Another problem and another dimension of Serbia's participation, i.e. The accession of this agreement, because this is a symbolic step, though, and I will say something about this, what kind of defence interest does Serbia have to take part in such a very complicated and dangerous mission as is in Somalia, but the issue of general security and the general role of the EU in the area of Southeast Europe, in particular, its relations with the NATO Pact, as well as the intertwining of their resources and everything that makes it possible for them to act together, is the question of what is being achieved with this step and achieved? The EU-led mission is, in fact, the missions it has taken over from the NATO Pact: Macedonia, Bosnia, on the basis of their mutual contract, so-called Berlin plus contracts, where the command structure and resources and planning are, in fact, in the hands of the NATO Pact. All countries, when they sign the agreement, agree to participate in such missions, are in fact entering under the command structure of the deputy commanders for operations in the EU and NATO pact, and becoming led by the NATO Pact. Essentially, this brings us to the second part of this problem, is whether Serbia should be engaged at the moment or preparing for NATO-led operations, in a situation where the organisation supported the formation of security forces in the KIM area. We can see from this information, the report, which is circulating that it has gone from all its power to forming the KIM Department of Defense. In her latest declaration, adopted in Lisbon in November 2010, KFOR's role in training Kosovo's security forces was said to have been so successful, it would establish a new quality and better state, and for this reason the number of members would be reduced. The fact that he is speaking in an indirect manner, although the institution has not formally recognised independent Kosovo, is that it has advocated the preservation of the territorial integrity of all those countries where territorial disputes exist from Armenia, Moldova, Georgia, all but Serbia. That's what the Lisbon Declaration of this organization says. In such conditions, it is a matter of our level and our form of participation in the Partnership for Peace. In a series of documents but also a statement, the latest statement was by the Chief of Staff in an interview that he gave "Defense" that we would enter into a new deepened phase of co-operation with the NATO Pact within the Partnership for Peace mechanism. We see that Serbia participates in several of these mechanisms, but the two are most interesting, and as far as this is concerned, are the planning and revision process and the concept of operational capabilities, where in fact our declared forces, we, the public of Serbia, know absolutely nothing about it, and it would be good to know what the forces are and what their role is, are preparing for some new operations under the leadership and under the leadership of that political-military organisation. The question is, at this point in time, do we at this seriously open political issue have any interest in further achieving participation and engagement as a state of Serbia at this level? Until all these controversial issues and issues concerning our most important defence interest are discussed as defined by the Law on the Army and the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, adopted here, which is the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and the protection of citizens, we should not participate in those missions with those organisations that supported separatism in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and directly jeopardise our most important defence interest, until these issues are discussed. Here I think of both the EU and the NATO Pact. Therefore, we should not participate in EU-led missions because of the role of Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija, because of the overall support, I will remind you that the first day after Kosovo's declaration of independence was the EU's highest representative, then it was the High Representative, came to Kosovo and Metohija and Malta, did not say so, but said - behold, we received knowledge of what you did, we move on, and the other day here, High Representative Sanino said that Kosovo should enter the EU as soon as possible, so, to problems concerning NATO's role in training those, as they say, of Kosovo's security forces. I know that the representatives of the ministry, the minister and the president reacted, but what's strange when it happened is that, on the one hand, we have a public reaction, condemnation and disdain for what's going on, and on the other hand, we have a process of deepening relations within those same ones that we have referred to that criticism. Until this political issue is discussed, our status within the Partnership for Peace should not be deepened in any way or, as the Chief of Staff announced, go to the conclusion of an individual partnership action plan. No, it needs to be brought down to the status of an inactive partnership until these issues are discussed. This was caused by events after 17 February 2008 and the illegal declaration of Kosovo's independence and the role of these institutions and international organisations in all this. Here is a word that is often mentioned in a series of documents, 'interoperability', both in the National Security Strategy and in the Defence Strategy and in the Strategic Defence Review. The only question is whether this interoperability or the ability of our forces to participate in joint exercises and missions should apply exclusively to countries that are members of the NATO Pact, or whether the security challenges and security threats will be across the globe and will not exclusively involve the EU or NATO pact forces. There are other security organisations that want and will be able to engage in conflict prevention or conflict management. Serbia needs to realise that type of interoperability with them as well. I'll remind you here, the Organization of collective security arrangements, where we are invited to participate in the status of observers. Here, Mr. Bajatovic came out, he was at the Parliamentary Assembly in October of the month, giving a great speech, where he very ambitiously announced our participation in the organisation, which has already defined power for various peace operations. Why not as a military neutral country extend the possibility of participating in joint peace operations with many countries and developing this aspect of interoperability, as in all the documents adopted here, Serbia is saying it will co-operate with other international security organisations. Well, it's not just a partnership of peace or a NATO pact. The second aspect, which I will talk about later, is what has been done and achieved, perhaps this is an opportunity for the minister to say something about it, what has been done and achieved at that level of interoperability and standardisation, as well as on operational and material, as well as on administrative. We only see that it is done or done only in the domain of language learning, but the presentation document lists a number of areas where this would be achieved and a series of areas where this standardisation would be done. We know that in the budget we have the resources for this, but we do not know, nor do we have any information, what has been done and what the ultimate objectives of this partnership are, we do not see them. In that sense, it would be good to get information, and in some future period we will say something about it. Certainly, in light of these circumstances, Serbia should not deepen relations with the NATO Pact and the announced NATO Pact in Serbia should not be maintained and it should absolutely be cancelled until the foreign policy issues are discussed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50236	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50237	More things are said, I want to do without challenging any replica to respond to the citizens of Serbia, I suppose all MPs know the actual state. First, can we choose the missions we participate in? The very fact that our soldiers, members of the Serbian Army, are going on voluntary missions, is saying that we can choose whether or not we will participate, because if no one wants to participate in any mission, we do not have the obligation to participate in the mission, not even on UN missions. So this practice that exists is a practice that is established by law and no one can change it and it is clear that it is understood. The other thing is, this is a proposal for a plan. Why are we putting forward a proposal for a plan before we sign an agreement with the EU? Well, if you remember the sentence of Zoran Djindjic, everyone is active from the corner of the snail. Therefore, we want to be active and to finish our jobs before they catch up with us or catch up. It is our desire to have countries in this plan that we would go to together with the EU, and the next item of the agenda is the decision on engagement and reference, in which we define precisely who and where it goes, which, of course, must be in line with the 'plan', but does not have to be 'full plan'. So, only when an agreement with the EU is signed is then we open up opportunities to participate in peacekeeping missions, and of course, today we have talks with a number of countries. One of these countries is Greece, an EU member, a NATO member. The friendly Greek people have not recognised KIM and if you think we should not participate in a peace mission with them, then say it openly. We've opened two new peace missions over the past year. One is in Cyprus, Cyprus, an EU member, Cyprus has not recognised KIM. We left with Slovakia, which also did not recognise KIM, which is a member of NATO and the EU. The second peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, with the Spanish military, also an EU member, also a NATO member, has not recognised KIM either. The question arises, a political schizophrenic, in which you ask that you have partners to help solve the KIM problem, while at the same time trying to force us not to cooperate with anyone, or even those who have an understanding of our needs and who want to support our policy on the most sensitive political issue for Serbia, which is, of course, KIM. The question – where do we want to go within the Partnership for Peace would be quite logical to ask some representative of some other political money that is in parliament, and not, exactly, that party that brought us into the Partnership for Peace. So, anyone else has the opportunity to ask a question and follow things logically, that it is not clear to him, but if we know that in 2006, we joined the Partnership for Peace, if we know that the government then decided to participate even in NATO operations, then it is difficult to explain to that party why we are doing it now, I mean the Partnership for Peace, and why we want to deepen our relations and why Serbia finally wants to use its army to be important to those who are important to the world. In the end, they want all the armies in the world more or less, and believe me, it's one way to raise interoperability. Interoperability is called a question, of course, of those people who don't follow the defence system, well, they can hardly understand, but let's translate it into Serbian or translate it into some jargon that we all understand, that's standardisation. Today, in a world of interoperability according to NATO standard, they represent virtually all armies of the world. Participation in peacekeeping missions, whether under the flag of the UN, the EU and NATO, is conducted precisely with this interoperability that is necessary for your army to be at the level that it can co-operate. That level doesn't stay in those countries. Preparation, training, equipment to buy, it all goes back to our country. So the soldiers who train are our soldiers. The soldiers who are trained in the field are still our soldiers. Those soldiers, when they return to Serbia, are ready to meet all three missions defined by a law passed in Serbia's parliament. Therefore, there is nothing that we invest more here than is necessary, and that, in doing so, we do not benefit as a state, as a ministry or as an army. And, secondly, I have to tell you, since I really think this is one of the things that we shouldn't share in parliament, the support of this proposal is the support of every soldier, officer and officer who has decided to protect peace and security outside the borders of this country for the interests of the citizens of Serbia, your children. It is the support of every brave soldier who has decided to be bold to go away for three, six months, beyond the borders of his country and to participate in something called global peace, in something, in which he is in addition to having personal benefits, and I am aware that he is working for the benefit of Serbian citizens. To talk today about EU missions and the EU as an international institution, which, I understand simply, has no sympathy in this small part of Serbia's MPs, would be like talking about inaction, let's say, in police co-operation with EU member states, not working with Europol. There's no big difference. Maybe that's not clear to you and you don't have to be clear. Indeed, I don't think everyone should be clear, but if you analyze a little bit what has been done in some past period in order to ensure the safety of citizens at a higher level and how much co-operation has been strengthened precisely with the EU countries in order to stabilise security in Serbia. You'll see that the same thing applies to the Army. With this plan ahead of you, along with eight planned missions, which, you say, don't have to be carried out, we have two missions that are police. There's one in Liberia, one in Haiti. And we are witnessing ourselves that our police were working in Haiti, Liberia, too. What I cannot agree with MP Arsenovic, all these missions are somehow dangerous, more or less. We are witnessing that in a few days even certain stable countries can destabilize, become mass bloodshed, and we insist that all members of both the military and the police be adequately trained, equipped, standardised and interoperable and able to protect lives, primarily their own, and then the lives of those with whom they are on the ground, and then those who are threatened, and these are to the greatest extent the dominant population, who are largely helped by the military members. Also, I want to point out, it's really about human missions. It is about missions for which for the first time in years since the UN has received thanks from the UN that Serbia has taken part, and I will remind you that texts in foreign media, which are extremely important from the aspect of the formation of an image of Serbia, are such that our army now serves the honor of our citizens, but also of all those who want to see peace in the world. That, from the point of view of small Serbia, of the lion's heart, does not seem very important and does not seem to be a major contribution to peace, but believe me, those on the ground and those counting allies among the countries that want to provide peace in the world, it is extremely, extremely respected. Indeed, there is a possibility and a policy of inactivity. I understand that completely, we've been associates since 2000 several times. I have seen this activity both in the field and in the government, it is something that Serbian citizens recognise, but it is not something that Serbian citizens vote for and give their support. Simply, Serbian citizens have clearly defined themselves as European Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50238	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. National MP Jovan Palalic has been reported. (The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. I ask MP Milan Lapčević not to throw. The right to the replica is the right of the chairman to decide. National MP Jovan Palalic spoke out of the agenda for the most part between 16 and 18 minutes of his discussion, asking the minister a question. I can tell you what was completely off the subject of the agenda we're discussing, and the minister answered, which I consider necessary, because I've allowed you to speak beyond the subject of the agenda. National MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please, sign in. It's better when you have a card in the MP's unit, then it's much easier to log into the electronic system. It is possible that this parliamentary unit is not working, since you have not been registered in the system, and you have been present in the O.R. (National MP Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Turn on his electricity. ) Please keep your electricity notes to yourself. We will wait patiently, since I am absolutely certain that MP Zeljko Tomic knows how injured the Rules of Procedure is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50239	Article 27, Madam Chairman, you have now admitted that you do not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You said the MP didn't talk about the subject, and you didn't find it appropriate to warn him, interrupt, etc. So you violated the Rules of Procedure and you admitted it yourself. And in the day of the vote, we can say that during the day the light, overnight, is dark and that Gordana Comic today has broken the Rules of Procedure. That's obvious, because you've admitted it yourself. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50240	People's MP, it's unnecessary to confirm clearly. So, I said that MP Jovan Palalic spoke outside the agenda and asked the question, and therefore the minister, in the same way as the Rules of Procedure, was given the right to answer him. I thank you for your observation that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, because it is. And from this moment on, every representative and president of the parliamentary group will be able to speak exclusively about the subject of the agenda. National MP Tomislav Nikolic adds: "But you have violated the Rules of Procedure". I said how and why I allowed MP Jovan Palalic to speak beyond the topic of the agenda, believing that the agenda point was such that it was good for the Assembly to allow the truths about the fact that there was a "declaration of military neutrality" that it was all false. This document has never been adopted and there is no "war neutrality declaration". I let it talk about NATO, although it is not the topic of the agenda, because I think it is important to create a dialogue on this. I have allowed the status of security in Kosovo and Metohija to be discussed, although it is not the topic of the agenda, because I think it is important to talk about it. I have allowed MP Jovan Palalić to speak about the need to speak much more about the topics he is launching in his 20 minutes, and completely out of the agenda, because I think it is a good application of the Rules of Procedure. You did not get a line because it is also a good application of the Rules of Procedure that we remain within the agenda. You asked, the minister answered. If, rightly, MP Zeljko Tomic believes that such a way to conduct the session does not correspond to this session, I will thank him. This will be made clear by the Assembly in the day of the vote, and everyone who has a word after you will have to speak exclusively and strictly about the topic of the agenda, because the MPs believe that as I thought to apply article 27 is not good for a session of the National Assembly. National MP Jovan Palalic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50241	Mrs. Comic, you've injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which says the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president. Article 104(2) says that if offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, or to a political party, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. Mr. Secretary said... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50242	National MP, the right to replica cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's not what we're talking about. Thank you. National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50243	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, let's get back to the topic that's interesting. Here we'll hear various opinions "about" and "against." Those who are 'yes', and mine will be 'yes', will be argued, and those who are 'no' will also be argued, but I think those opinions -- 'no' has two types or two groups of thinking. One really is a political opinion that does not want Serbia's integration into either Europe or NATO's pact, i.e. it does not want Serbia's integration into this, to say the Western side at all. I am not saying that this type of opinion is not against Serbia's integration, but on another side. These were in Serbia's history, they were in 1948. And the second group of opinions that are against this plan is, for example, more because it does not realize that integration, solidarity and accountability contribute, after all, and the image of the country, which can objectively and materialise. In the end, I'll just touch those two groups of opinions. However, I would like to devote most of my time to the arguments why this plan should be adopted and why LDP will support this. Now, the global world in which we live, as much as some people don't like it, but he's a fact, and whoever denies it acts like a man who denies it rains and goes without an umbrella, can only do it to his own harm, and so not accepting the facts of globalisation and the global world can only be to the harm of those who reject it. It's not good when they're headed by some states, because then that fact is bad for the state and for the citizens. Fortunately, in 2008, we used to curtsy like that. Solidarity and accountability are two values stemming from the global world. And why solidarity and responsibility? Well, because being responsible for yourself and others implies in many situations that you show solidarity and vice versa, who is able to show solidarity, it also shows responsibility. And it comes back eventually. So this country that was part of a larger country has a history, a tradition of participation in multinational operations. At that time, for most, and for those who were now against, well, raised the country's reputation, whatever the land was, however it ended her life. We all remember, or at least we're older, at that time. No one had any problem at the time that Yugoslav soldiers, and among them soldiers from Serbia, were going on peacekeeping missions, where peace was to be established, where opportunities should have been stabilised, because we were all aware that this would raise the country's reputation and that it was basically one contribution and solidarity to some others who had become divided, bloodied, began to slaughter, to stop doing so, and to solve their problems with peaceful means. Those who loved and were part of that system are probably now against for some other reasons. I'm not talking about those from 1948, who were for other integrations, not for this country's independence. Of the five military missions and one police force, we'll get into this plan this year, a few more missions. Let me, on the case of Somalia, which is mentioned here, give a few arguments as to what solidarity and responsibility means. In Somalia, there are pirates that kidnap ships and capture people, kidnap all nationalities. You are witnessing that it has often happened, a few months ago, that on some foreign ships pirates have kidnapped our citizens who worked there. To be fair, what is the questionable help to the world, to the Somalian government to regain control of its territory, to deal with these pirates, who are, objectively, at this point quite a monster for maritime traffic? On the other hand, does it contribute to the country's reputation to pray to others and to expect others to free our captive citizens? I'm going, now, on the contrary. Haven't we all felt some level of satisfaction when a few weeks ago our plane from Egypt, apart from our citizens, saved BiH and Macedonia's citizens? Did it raise Serbia's reputation, at least in those countries? I'm sure it is. Has Serbia's reputation in those countries been great by then, so now it's not? It's not. It wasn't big until then, but it's certainly bigger now. That's what I'm trying to explain by saying about responsibility and solidarity. Living in isolation as Castro Cuba, as Enver Hodgins Albania can be acceptable to someone; we don't have to go anywhere, we don't have to hang out with anyone, we're enough ourselves, "we'll eat roots" when there's no lamb anymore, but that world is over. Someone might want a country like that, but we from LDP want Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration and show that you're able to integrate in a few ways. In the economy, here's the CEFTA deal. If we're going to get into one big integration, then at least we can show that we can work together with our neighbors, when it comes to integration into the military security structures that will eventually come to you and that you will all be when the time comes, at least you who will get the trust of the citizens and sit here. Participation in multinational operations is this path, the way in which some common standards are adopted, in which learning to use non-usable equipment, system of connections, procedures, etc. And there's nothing controversial about it. From this point on, we welcome what we will finally participate in EU missions, not only in UN missions, as most of the 28 EU countries are NATO members. We think that participation in EU missions will be useful for our future NATO membership. To be fair, and European forces respect NATO standards, because most EU members are NATO members, and even those who do not respect NATO standards, not because NATO forced them to do so, but because these standards are currently the best in the world. Maybe the Israelis are level to them, well, if someone advocates not respecting NATO standards but respecting Israeli standards, then let them say what integration it is. On the other hand, the future EU peacekeeping force is somehow part of NATO's strength, because, to be fair, participation in EU peacekeeping operations will be a good preparation for future participation in NATO operations, since NATO is wider and bigger for the EU for the US, Canada, Turkey, let me be cynical, at this point for Croatia and Albania, but both Croatia and Albania will soon, sooner or later, hope not much sooner than we will be members of the EU. So let's be open, honest, and let's say, if it's politics, who is against Euro-Atlantic integration, that objectively has a political position that I respect, although I disagree with, but Kosovo's introduction as an argument is really not right. This is about the country's reputation. This is about solidarity and responsibility, if we help someone tomorrow, we can expect someone to help us too. Those who are calling for a bright Serbian war tradition believe that they are not, quite, happy to be in Afghanistan: the Slovenians, and the Macedonians, and the Montenegrins, and the Bosnians, only us, the Serbs, are not, and already some common unit of the forces of the states created by the disintegration of Yugoslavia is being prepared. Only we, in our opinion of the greatest fighters and warriors, are not there. The fact is, when it comes to politics, it's legitimate to defend that attitude and to advocate other integration, to defend an isolated country, but when it comes to ignorance and arguments that don't come to citizens, I'm saying this because of citizens, and not because of colleagues who oppose the proposal, we need to be aware that this is useful. We often weren't able to figure out what was useful for us during the 1990s, and we were doing something that was good for others. We have never succeeded in showing and showing our interest by convincing those who decide that it is their interest, but we have tried to achieve our interest beyond their interest, contrary to their interest, and therefore our state and national interest has not been realized. But some others were smart, so they were able to show their interests to those who were powerful by convincing them and explaining that their interests were also their interests, which is why these interests came true. Here I mean, specifically, the Kosovo Albanians. Therefore, God forbid we take part in the Eulex mission, because what happened in Kosovo is reality. Even the International Court of Justice said Kosovo's independence is in line with Resolution 1244, and we accepted it in the General Assembly. Should we be happy that there is no one from Serbia in Mission Eulex, no Serb police officers?- I'm sorry. According to us, we shouldn't be happy. By someone else, we should be happy. On the other hand, will the Serb soldier, or the Serbian Army soldier, ever in the future, because it is not the Serb army, but the Serbian Army, be at KIM? We of the LDP think it will be, when we're in NATO. So, when we are in NATO, we will have the right to be in Kosovo, perhaps the Serb will not command, the Slovenian or Slovak may be in command, anyway, but I am trying to explain to you, by discussing this agenda point, that the arguments you are using have nothing to do with the essence, so everything goes back to your face, because they are not arguments but politics. I'm talking about those who don't have the courage to openly represent their policy, but are scrambling and hiding behind some arguments, those who fear that participation will lead to death, to disaster, that someone here will remand us, and I say that the economic, political and security future of this country depends on the speed of Serbia's European and Atlantic integration. The jobs depend on whether someone who has money wants to come here, whether they're afraid to invest or not. They'll be less afraid when we're like everyone around us. As long as we're different, we're causing suspicion, even in the ordinary life of people who are different from all of us, who are different, they're causing everyone else's suspicions. We can't say that we don't cause suspicion if we all go one way and only we invent neutrality and, by some, we're going to renew the movement of the unsettled, although it seems to me that Gaddafi won't participate. So much for this opportunity. I want to hear some more arguments from those who either don't understand what they're talking about or don't want to say why they're against giving me a chance to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50244	Since the time of the authorised representative, 15 minutes and 30 seconds have been used. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He had the right to receive the word before MP Zoran Ostovic. My apologies, I understand you're reporting as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50245	Please, I said a breach of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of article 103, I suggest that you've injured article 107, and now you might say it's too late since someone's already spoken, but you're going to hurt the Rules of Procedure and give me your word. I'm worried about what you said. I let this happen. I let this happen. I let this happen. Please conduct a session of the National Assembly so that it does not depend on whether you allow it or not. If the president of the National Assembly said in an interview the other day that she likes to allow a little debate between MPs, since the Assembly does not exist if it does not discuss and discuss everything, then I ask you to keep your manners or at least when you end that good manner so that a man can get out of the agenda a little bit to end it all. It is impossible for you to choose now whose discussion is politically appropriate to you, whose not suit you, so that you do not tell him that this is not the subject of the agenda at all, and that these peace operations are not related to 1948, and that another MP, who belongs to the opposition, whose discussion you do not like, is to say – well, from now on, I will be 'Beach of God', I have a turtle, and from now on you will never say another word to say beyond the agenda. Please let us have a deal here. If the MP has five, 10, 15, 20 minutes, you don't have to tell him a hundred times – agenda, agenda. What does that mean? Take his word. Then you will carry out the meetings of the National Assembly more quickly and make decisions. So if you really have democracy in your soul, avoid the word, 'I've allowed'. Don't let anything in here! You work in the Rules of Procedure, it's democracy. As soon as it starts to depend on your permission, then I doubt there's any democracy. And I wanted to point out that there are major injuries to the Rules of Procedure that you don't point to. I suppose there are political moments where some people are allowed things, but I'm just asking you to always have the same principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50246	Two minutes. Article 27 implies advocacy on the agenda. As I was warned that I had not stopped MP Jovan Palalic for one moment during the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, by MP Zeljko Tomic, I had an obligation to explain why it was allowed for MP Jovan Palalic to violate the Rules of Procedure. And it's the same custody on the order at the session within Article 27. The same rights that the MP Jovan Palalic had, as well as the MP Zoran Ostojić, and anyone else. If I have incorrectly expressed myself as in response and in an explanation to MP Zeljko Tomic, I apologize to you and to everyone. Aging on the agenda under this agenda implies taking responsibility for MPs to speak out, strictly, agenda points, because it is good for discussion, but also requires the obligation to return to the agenda after the debate between MPs and representatives of the government or MPs, in particular, so I don't think there will be any misunderstanding. In this assembly, dialogue has long begun with the merit and work of all MPs, MPs from opposition parties, too, and also of the people's MPs of the ruling majority. Do any of the MPs or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are considering the proposal for the annual use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011. The plan envisions nine points, nine defence ministry engagements and two points related to the engagement of the MUP. On behalf of the SRS, I propose that the Assembly not adopt the 7th and 8th points of the proposal, that the EU's multinational military operation to train the security forces of the Somali Republic in Uganda and the EU's multinational military operation in the Somalian Republic. What's this about? First of all, when you look at all these other points, you see that all these other operations, namely the engagement of our military forces and police forces, are tied up within the framework of UN operations. In this situation, we need to be in EU military operations. We should now consider why we should make the first precedent and participate in operations that are not under UN jurisdiction. First of all, we need to see who the EU forces are or what are they called, the EU combat groups? Why should Serbia participate in these operations? When you look at a little history, there's nothing to surprise you. This wasn't made up yesterday. They used to be called vases in history. They were obliged to deliver at a certain point, for the purposes of those whose scales were, a certain number of soldiers 'on their sleeves and cows' and to wage war for their needs. With this, we literally recognise a vassal attitude towards the EU. What should be particularly important to us is that we know what the objectives are and what principles these European forces operate on, to be sure whether this is right or wrong. Who decides their actions? Do their actions be decided by the UN, the Security Council? No, their actions are being decided by the EU Council. And their objectives are to implement a common foreign and defence policy. The second, primarily but not exclusively, are engaged under the auspices of the UN. And that's the problem. That's the problem because, unfortunately, we live in a world of double standards. What we should all know, military engagement, in accordance with the UN Charter, can only be granted by the Security Council or by Article 51, if it is a defence war. Different use of the army. One more thing we should keep in mind when it comes to this, which is that we would in this way justify aggression in 1999 against the Federal Republic by the NATO Pact, the same ones we should go on peace missions with. Because if we accept that our soldiers are engaged without a Security Council decision, then, in a way, we give a blessing or consent to what happened to us in 1999. The second thing we'd have to take care of, is where do they engage, first of all, members of the EU Armed Forces? More or less, it is mentioned here that these are almost always operations related to the engagement of the NATO Pact. This is in a way, even at a small door, the entry of Serbia into the NATO Pact. Now we prefer it this way, and after a certain time, the minister will likely, who does not hide it, invest all his strength to make Serbia a NATO pact member. We ask a very simple question – what has the NATO Pact done, or America so far, from 1945 to 2009? They say that from 1945 to 2009, America participated in 29 operations worldwide. Among other things, in these countries where we should send our soldiers, Somalia and Congo, as well as the deaths of dozens of millions of people in these operations, that was the highest number of civilian casualties. That's what we need to be one of the biggest problems. We should not allow our soldiers to cover the crimes committed by the Americans. Today we decide Somalia and Congo. In a while, you can hear signs here, and we'll probably decide Afghanistan as well. When I say make up my mind, in our case, it's already sound like a ruckus. We'll simply have to carry out our orders coming from Washington and Brussels. Therefore, Serbia should in no way accept any single operation outside the UN framework. Unfortunately, we have a very bad experience. Do I need to remind you of what happened in 1999, how many thousands of tons of bombs with the poored uranium were extradited to the SRJ? And by the way, that operation was called "Merciful Angel." How many dozen or hundreds of years will it take to clear Serbia's area of impoverished uranium? Let me remind you what happened when NATO is a pact, and all these states with whose soldiers we need to go on peace missions, and what they did from the moment they entered the kiM. Do I need to remind you that over 350,000 Serbs had to avoid terror with KIM? Do I need to remind you of Dick Marty's report on human organ trafficking? I know you don't like this subject and that you'd rather not talk about it, but it's within the framework of the operations that NATO's pact was doing at the time. How can you be sure that some of the following operations in some other countries, too, will not contribute to the same things happening? Here, the report on the Congo speaks of unremembered crimes committed in the Congo and nothing happens. Do we need to go there, so after a few years we can read what one of the groups was doing, and that's a group that supports the United States, because there are double arches, one of which is supported, as are KIM, or Serbia, there are good and bad guys. When it comes to good boys, they can do whatever they want and as many crimes as they want, America not only will do nothing, but it will also prevent the UN from intervene, which they have pointed to Kim. I guess there's no one who doesn't believe that all the countries that were at KIM, their services, had information about what was going on at KIM about human organs trafficking. There are reports in the UN. So, what's done? It's done! They tried every way they could to cover up these crimes, because it's politically appropriate to them. Because it's politically appropriate for them not to investigate crimes, and criminals, although known to be, should be allowed to come to the highest possible position in that country. Do I need to remind you who Hashim Thaci is? In 1994 he killed four police officers at a circular crossing, legally sentenced in 1997, twice arrested, but was released, although there is a red Interpol warrant, I don't know if with the help of our organs, I won't go in, but, I believe, if they asked for that help. That man is the Prime Minister. That man will probably be the Prime Minister again. He's being tied up as one of the leaders of this crime related to human organ trafficking, and we need to get over it. So now we're supposed to be involved with those countries that made it possible in some peace operations?- I'm sorry. Well, it's a crime against our victims again, not only our victims, but Albanians, and probably the citizens of some other countries of Eastern Europe. Look what's going on. In Serbia, he is silent, although the Western press is talking about the facts of what happened at KIM by 2003, 2004, because we must not defend our interests, we are forced to do so and that is the problem we are facing. That is why Serbia should not participate in such operations. He should also look at where there are frameworks where, possibly, the Serb army could participate in some missions. Those who advocate respect for the UN Charter, those who advocate international law, those who advocate respect for the integrity and sovereignty of all countries in the world, with such organisations, we could co-operate. Those who have created their alliances exclusively for the defense of their territories, the defence of their members, suits us. They have no intention of going to any other country, anywhere in the world, those who are fighting terrorism, who are fighting drug trafficking, who are fighting human trafficking, such organisations would answer to us. One of those organizations is the ODKB. But you obviously don't have the opportunity to decide what would be useful for Serbia, but rather decide what is being imposed on you. There, absolutely, I don't think there's any dilemma that this is an attempt to get Serbia into NATO's pact in every way possible. If we adopt what we're considering today, and these two points of the proposal to engage our military forces, it will practically be entering a small NATO pact. That is why I propose to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament not to adopt this plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50248	Since the time of the parliamentary group president, 14 minutes and 30 seconds have been used. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to resent the Ministry of Defense and the police for introducing their cameras and thus showing that they have no confidence, I guess, in a direct transmission or in the footage they would have received from the Public Service. I think it's a little over the National Assembly, but it's your thing as chairman. You could've told them that all of this could be seen in direct transmission and that it doesn't need to be recorded separately, since there's probably no installation here. Here we see differences in defence ministers. We used to have defence ministers sinking into the Adriatic Sea what we have from equipment, ammunition, weapons, and today we have a defence minister who has managed to sell much of it, which is positive for me for this defence minister. However, his strength in this government is so great that we are starting these sessions with this plan, and we are not discussing what is very important for Serbia and what is bothering the citizens of Serbia, so it is evident that the government is not well-conceived, or that the ambitions of some people in the government were too great and their possibilities are small for these ambitions, so that when you have strong personalities in other ministries, then these ministries are forced, and I must admit that this time it was much more important for us to discuss some other topics than this engagement. That's why I think Mr. Sutanovac, if he really has such strength in his political party, and also in the government itself, should have taken over one of the ministries that our lives depend on. I mean it. I don't think you have any more personnel for any ministry, but you've got the best you can do while you can. I am much more interested in the economy, in finance, in agriculture, in internal trade, in justice. You've messed up everywhere. Here, now we're just going to brag about how in the Ministry of Defense, not in the military and in the defence of the country, but in the Ministry of Defense, we've achieved some results. But, well, let it be a story for you within your government. I am much more interested in accessing these peace operations because you owe the citizens of Serbia, you decide on their behalf, and I am convinced, on behalf of the SNS and you take over the international obligations that we will have to carry out, just like those loans discussed these days, both yesterday and tomorrow. So our principled position is to participate in the operations that have been established by UN Security Council resolutions and all nine of those discussed today have been established by resolutions. I'm surprised you didn't answer the messengers who didn't know it and didn't read it. Therefore, all nine operations are in the mandate of the UN Security Council. It's an organization whose member we want to be. And it's an organization that doesn't divide states into those she likes or isn't. And there are many states in the UN organisation that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and the question is whether some want us to step forward from the UN organisation. I disagree with you that Serbian children defend themselves in Somalia. That's not a good argument to defend our army's involvement in peace operations. There are political goals for which we should be. I understand those goals and I appreciate them from the point of view of state policy, not even by the Ministry of Defense. This does not represent any particular training if you have a few dozen people involved. How many years does it take us, hundreds of years, to train all our people in this way? On the other hand, you have praised our participation along with some countries that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence and that is not an argument. What does that have to do with us participating in these operations with Spain or participating with Germany? It doesn't matter. Chuck, we can learn more, if we go to learn more we'll learn more from some other countries. After all, yesterday, the finance minister very negatively spoke about Greece, so I'm interested in what the government of Serbia has on Greece, when you say today it's a wonderful state and I guess we won't cooperate with them. Yesterday, the Ministry's finance says we don't want to look up to Greece. Please coordinate those views in the Government of the Republic of Serbia a little bit. This is a very sensitive subject and you know it very well. You can't talk about this by putting your personal attitude on the table. Serbia's interests should be found here. Serbia's interests are to interfere with the whole world and the division of work, but also the division of responsibility. My personal opinion would be if we didn't have to run into it. If we have already entered it, we do not have to celebrate it as a great undertaking of Serbia – we have managed to get into peace operations. I think it opens up a lot of hotspots in the world and these operations are going to fall, they're going to come out of the public eye, because much bigger and more serious countries are breaking down. And I think that support for a regime, at least as much as Serbia felt that the regime was right, could end badly, because some other regimes unexpectedly defeat it. It turns out that in 15, 20 or a month, you will be in conflict with a regime that has won over a state, despite the efforts of peace operations, because peace operations do not involve the bombing of territories, but only help, and good will, and good intentions, and good services. Obligations are obligations. Money is money. I think this is costing Serbia too much. I could remind you how many folk cuisines they are, and they're much more important than our people going into peace operations. If you don't understand how severe a crisis is, you can go out on the street and see how the people live. So, at all times, you need to look for a measure. The measure is that we should be part of the holy community, part of the European community, the measure is that we have no enemies in the world. The measure is that we have friends in both the East and the West, both in the North and the South. The measure is that our people survive and begin to live better. Those are, I guess, the goals of every government in Serbia. Now, let me tell you what happened to me this morning, and it's about this subject. In the boulevard of revolution, I saw a puppy walking through that snow, and there was a monument of "Nonway Tesla" and I did a physiological need on the monument of Nikola Tesla. And they parted, and that puppy went like a puppy, and the monument remained like the monument of "None of Tesla." I hear that an MP in the Serbian Parliament has also tried to perform his own physiological need on a Serbian citizen, on the vice president of the SNS who is not in the O.R., so I tell him now - he may be relieved, but he will still remain who he was, and the one he has fallen on will remain the one he was on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50250	Eight minutes and 13 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50251	I think we can talk, of course, but first of all, we have a conflict of value systems. The conflict with the system of values is now characterized by whether it is someone for European integration, whether it is someone not for European integration, but we have had the opportunity to hear whether it is depicted whether Serbia's children are more important than the children of Somalia. All children are equally important to us, and the children of Somalia are also at risk. You don't have to see how our children will be threatened if you don't understand it, but I'm sure you can understand that our medical teams, for example, helped Chad's children, and indirectly helped the administration of Serbia's children, as other countries do, and believe me, the list of these countries is huge. What you've been disabling to the public, either on purpose or by accident, and I don't blame you, because you often don't understand something that's being said here, which is that the finance minister said that the public finances system in Greece is not an example system. It's just, it's a fact. To speak of Greece as a country in which we don't trust or not respect it doesn't stand, at least not from the point of view of this government, if you will and personally I have very great sympathy, after all, the man who baptized my children is Greek. So that story of yours, along with all the trouble you bring and the concern about Serbia and Greece's relations, simply doesn't stand. It is true what you said, and I am sorry that I was not in the moments when Mr Todorovic finished his presentation, that both of the missions we are now talking about, as EU missions, were just formed on the basis of the UN Security Council's decision. It's true that it should be emphasized. The EU does not go on peacekeeping missions unless these missions have the support of the UN, or the Security Council. The first Atalanta mission was established by the EU Council Decision and UN Security Council Resolution No. 1814 and the Somalia Mission established by UN Security Council Resolution No. 1872. These missions, as such, have been entrusted to the EU which has the capacity to carry out these missions. The fact is, as I said, our participation in these missions will be symbolic. We don't have the opportunity to present ourselves with higher capacity right now, for a number of reasons. Of course finance is a condition. I have to say that we are part of a big world, a world that helps Serbia a lot and ultimately donates some institutions in Serbia, so we feel the need to fit in in in some way in that big world that separates the money of its taxpayers to help Serbia who is who it is. It's all a circle that circles around the world, a circle based on which there is an international world order, a circle based on which there is political trust. When I was just talking about having to participate in missions by replicating colleagues from another parliamentary group, I really didn't want to get involved in a story, because I enjoy it, but rather, to demystify and explain, to be clear. As Secretary of Defense who is responsible, I am grateful to you for recommending me for another ministry, but, "I take care of the Danes and when they bring us gifts." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50252	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50253	Yeah, but that guard didn't stop the Danish from winning what they wanted. So, you're welcome to watch out, and the Danes are coming safely. You saw that on February 5th. I don't think you told the truth when you said you didn't have a need, you needed to fight with the MPs. I have truly been kind to you. I'm waiting for the opportunity to open up a debate, a serious debate, about your ministry, then I'm going to have a serious conversation. This has nothing to do with your ministry, now you're just buying points. So, it pains me a lot that you're talking about me as a man who doesn't like kids. You know it's stupid yourself. First of all, there's no man in the world who doesn't like kids. I would never tell you that, and I just warned you about what you said and what I interpreted in my own way, that our children were being protected in Somalia, just like you said, "it's on a long stick," you should have said -- we want to protect the children in Somalia and no one would say a word against it. And to convince me that we will go there to protect our children, something here does not suit my understanding of life. Every child in the world should be protected. Wherever we can help protect other people's children, help, but don't convince me it's because of our children. It's not! God forbid our children need such help! Our children need another kind of help: 'Our children must have three meals. Our children must have free schooling. Our children must have security on the street and at school. Our children must have a good education system. Our children should live in good apartments. '"That's the need of our children. Therefore, please meet the needs of our children. At the same time, fill in what helps other children. Just don't put these two together. There are too many hungry and poor, and vulnerable, and beaten, in the streets and in the courtyards, and in Serbia itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50254	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50255	Mr Minister, I assume you know this too, because here you have, in this part about the EU's fighting groups, says – what are the EU's fighting groups for. Since you said that they are exclusively engaged under the UN Security Council's decisions, I will read it to you precisely. He says, "Primaryly but not exclusively, they can be engaged in UN-led missions of the EU, trained to conduct combat operations," etc. So, "primary, but not exclusively." This sentence is very clear and speaks of these operations being beyond the UN framework. Whether these two operations have coincided with a UN decision or not, but here is the essence of the fact that they give themselves the right to take actions that are not approved by the Security Council, or the UN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50256	The word has been made by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50257	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think there have been several attempts to deceive the public about today's agenda, and I have to look back on that. At the very beginning, I want to thank the brave soldiers and police officers who have served in these peace missions and those who volunteer to do so in the future, because they will carry out the best vote on our country and follow the best traditions of our country since the time of the former Yugoslavia, when thousands of people participated in peacekeeping operations and when exactly the former Yugoslavia was one of the countries that contributed most to world peace. We are in this way strengthening our country's international reputation and it can be twice useful, above all, for our country and our citizens. What our job is, is well noticed by counterpart Bajatovic, is to ensure that these soldiers and police officers are best equipped and best trained to take some risks in these crisis hotspots where they go and where they are, and these are some dangerous places, to minimise these risks. What we have done as a Committee on Defence and Security, is now consider a Yearly Work Plan, where we have predicted, I hope that it will be adopted in the coming days, visit to the Peace Operations Centre. In particular, it is about training our soldiers for these operations, and we have anticipated a possible possibility for some of the Committee members to visit one of these missions abroad, to see what conditions they are working on and possibly get a better picture of how to prepare them and in the future for these challenges. Now what some of the colleagues mentioned. SRS representative Mr. Todorovic spoke of some kind of vase. That's very interesting when it comes out of the mouth of someone whose MPs often mentioned that we should be someone's leper. I don't think we're anyone's ghoul, we're nobody's wee bit more important, we're one sovereign state that has its own constitution, which has adopted strategies, the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, in which it's very clear how we run our security and defence policy, as well as how we go towards some other countries. I think that perhaps even better than some of my colleagues understand this issue, but some things here are not clear to me because the government of Vojislav Kostunica, whose parties you come from, took Serbia to the Partnership for Peace 2006. Today you're in favour of reducing participation in the Partnership for Peace. That's not clear to me, because the very name of this organization is also talking about her ambition, which is to ensure peace in the world. So, I don't know what we're supposed to be involved in, if we don't have to. It is also mentioned that we may be violating the concept of neutrality, which is defined in one resolution, by participating in these peace missions. Well, we also participate in UN peacekeeping missions. Is it then a proposal that we leave both the UN and not participate in anything where all other civilized countries and how do they contribute? What Mr Nikolic and his DSS colleagues were talking about was that our main obligation, when it comes to defence, is to safeguard our own integrity. That is true and it is one of the two key missions of the Serbian Army. Maybe there's a difference in some of the concepts between us that we represent, perhaps some younger generation and people who may still be in the time of some block divisions. The difference in thinking is that I am convinced that we and the security of our citizens, our country and the safety of our children are absolutely defending beyond the borders of our country. This is also witnessed by these terrorist attacks that occur in the most diverse cities in the world, and in Moscow at the airport, and in New York, and in Madrid, and in London. Simply, such threats have no limits, and that is why Serbia and its security are protected by participation in these operations. It is particularly interesting to hear criticism from party representatives whose governments or participations in the Serbian Army have been brought to the margins of our society, and the military industry has been completely destroyed. Where both the military and the military industry are present today, there is sufficient witness to the views of our citizens, where exactly the Serbian Army is, when it comes to public opinion studies, the most respected institution in our society. The military industry recently reached that billion dollars, as already done export operations, as concluded. Thousands of people are employed, and for thousands of people for whom there were no jobs in the failed factories, while some of these MPs were in power, they were finally employed and have the opportunity to feed their families, and today these cities are waving and surviving thanks to the drive of the dedicated industry. We can talk about the professionalisation of the military, which may be the greatest achievement of this defence ministry and this government, when we talk about the area of defence, because exactly professionalising the military will allow Serbia to participate in these multinational operations in a more serious way, because we will have a large number of capable and trained people, far more capable than ordinary recruits, who, when it comes to defending our country, can certainly better respond to the challenges that threaten our security. How much of a reputation does the Serbian Army enjoy is the best testimony to the fact that voluntary military service has applied for the first March class, twice as many people as the Serbian Army can accept. Of course, when it comes to United Nations peace missions that it is our obligation and where we are fortunate to be in the decades behind us when we were isolated instead of that isolation, we may have had a different approach, perhaps to defend some of our interests and to solve our problems more easily instead of looking at our own problems, thinking that the world around us doesn't exist at all. When it comes to costs, I think the costs of these operations are low compared to what Serbia can get. The issue of participation in EU missions, I think, fully corresponds to the majority definition and mood of Serbian citizens who mostly support Serbia's entry into the EU and, of course, to contribute to the EU's common security defence policy is one important element in this co-operation with the countries of Europe. We cannot enter Europe under our terms, there are certain rights and obligations, but I repeat, I am convinced that by participating in these operations, we are ultimately getting much more than we might at some point. Also, I think that this is how we show that we are one serious state ready to share a burden of responsibility with our partners, not just for security in our region, where Serbia is definitely one of the most important factors of stability in Southeast Europe, but that we are ready to share a burden for global peace and thus show that we are one serious state, completely different from that unfortunate country of the 1990s. We on the Defence and Security Committee made a decision yesterday to propose to the Assembly to adopt this annual plan. I will certainly vote for it, I am sure that my colleagues from the DS will do so, and what I will personally stand for is not to freeze participation in the Partnership for Peace and Other Mechanisms, but to further increase it in the future in accordance with our capabilities and thus show that we are indeed one serious European state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50258	Thank you. Replica, MP Jovan Palalic, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50259	Your Honor, I'd like to rephrase my dear colleague. Since the minister himself mentioned it in his replica, indeed, the vice-president of the assembly had no reason not to give me a replica of Mr. Minister's presentation. There was a basis, I think the minister also likes the debate here in the National Assembly on this subject, and it would certainly be good for the public. What my colleague Samophalov said, that's a fact and that's true. During our government, during the government led by the DSS, whose president was Vojislav Kostunica, Serbia was admitted to the Partnership for Peace, and the framework document was signed by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic in December 2006, and it was not disputed. In the Partnership for Peace there is also a Russian Federation and a number of other countries. The fundamental question that we differ about is that something happened to us for the DSS on February 17, 2008, with the serious role of NATO's pact, which is 'unlawful declaration of independence of KIM', after which, and before that, the NATO pact took part in the training and support of the so-called 'KIM'. Kosovo security forces. This is a political issue for us, a political dispute, a couple of excellence, and we need to discuss it with them, because this is a topic that has hit our territorial sovereignty and integrity and our most important defence interest. We can't go after that event, with an organization that supported separatists, deepen relations. I would like to hear where Serbia's security interest is that with those who support the collapse of Serbia's greatest defence interest, the preservation of KIM and territorial integrity, we are deepening relations. That's where we differ, we want to lower them afterwards, and you're deepening them, and that's the difference between us and you. The second story is about the UN mandate, so all peacekeeping missions are under UN mandate. It can't be an excuse...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50260	Time. Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50261	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whether we are an important state or not, will be assessed by the citizens of Serbia, because they have the opportunity to see for themselves, so to speak, every day. Yesterday, among other things, you were able to read a statement from the German ambassador to Serbia who says -- Serbia has far more important things to do than go to early elections. Not to remind you of the statements of the English ambassador who gave lessons, Malten, about what and who will represent in the Republika Srpska Assembly. You can hide as much as you want, but in Serbia you know everything and I have no dilemmas. I'd recommend you take care of one thing. As far as the SRS is concerned, we are primarily in favour of our country, of our citizens, and of the circumstances and conditions that would allow our country to live a normal life, without political pressure, as well as to decide our own fate. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to do that in 20 years and we're paying a big price. We pay a great price thanks to those who are practically idols to you. Just to remind you again of this book, "The Genocide Politics", written by the Americans, the preface was written by Noam Chomsky. I suppose it's some authority after all. Among other things, when Madlen Albright was asked at the UN in 1996 if 500,000 Iraqi children who died because of sanctions taken against them by the United States, which is much more than in Hiroshima, which is worth it, she answered – well, I think it is?- I'm sorry. We can't share that opinion with people like that and those values... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50262	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We are moving on to the participation of the MPs in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. I give the word to Parliamentarian Djordjo Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50263	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will say what the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliament Club said in an opening statement on this extremely important point, which we are talking about today. The SPS-JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support the draft decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011. As the minister said in his opening statement, Serbia is currently participating in five peacekeeping missions, in two on its own. He said the ministry's intensity is to expand its presence and we as a parliamentary club support the ministry's intensities, because we really believe that this will increase our political influence, as is said among other things, beyond the borders of our country. The essential reason for making the decision we are talking about today is in fact necessary to enable professional members of the Serbia-MUP military to participate in multinational operations in 2011. So, the bottom line is that it is necessary to carry out regular replacements of members of the Serbian and Serbian military when it comes to operations that are under way and it is necessary to give an answer, or UN confirmation when it comes to operations whose start is planned and whose start is expected in 2011. What is extremely important, and what needs to be pointed out once again, is that the plan is drawn up on the basis of real capacities, and the MUP, the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, thus existing and current capacities, available funds and, of course, the current needs of the UN when it comes to the engagement of Serbian armed forces. It is true that this is Serbia's international legal obligation stemming from signed international agreements, but, on the other hand, Serbia's participation shows its ability, determination, willingness and will to participate in the work and to be an integral part of those who are ready to maintain world peace. It is about missions of peace and humanitarian character, and the strategic definition of Serbia is, of course, the preservation of peace. Of course, this decision also contributes to increasing the credibility of our country in international frameworks. Eurointegration is Serbia's priority foreign policy goal and, of course, that the participation of our members in EU operations will have a major impact on the overall process of Serbia's European integration. When it comes to the full content of the proposed decision, therefore, members of the military and police continue in this year to participate in UN multinational operations in Congo, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Cyprus, and for the first time in the Middle East, as well as in EU peacekeeping missions in Somalia and Uganda. Military and police members should take part in EU peacekeeping missions for the first time. Otherwise, according to the reasoning, the Serbian Army will place certain capacities at the disposal of the UN for engagement in multinational operations and, in that sense, conclude a stand by arrangement. If parliament adopts a proposal for a decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia and its members, as said among other things, in this year it will continue its engagement in two UN missions in Haiti and Liberia. And, when it comes to the members of the MUP, we agree with what is stated in the explanation of this proposal, that through the administrative engagement and administration of the representatives of the MUP, new knowledge will come into play in the field and technology and electronic business, and that their participation will facilitate the integration of our police into international police co-operation. Once again, at the very end, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50264	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I give my word to the MP John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50265	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are several colleagues who have already opened the topic of general security policies and security interests assessments and, unanimously, making decisions on the participation of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions. As one of the arguments that could be heard in previous discussions, it is sufficient that all these missions, including EU missions, are under UN mandate. That's not controversial. NATO missions are also under the mandate of the UN, with the mandate gained in certain situations and without the UN mandate, without the Security Council, as was the case at the beginning of the war against the SRJ, and afterwards the war in Iraq. The mission to Afghanistan is also under UN mandate. So, is that, then, sufficient reason for Serbian soldiers to participate as part of the EU's policy as part of a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan tomorrow? To remind you, President Afghanistan said the other day that NATO was responsible for the deaths of 50 civilians in Afghanistan. A while ago, we had a scandal in the Croatian army where the Chief of Staff was appointed, due to the engagement and participation of the Croatian army in Afghanistan. Say it! It was news and it was a major political problem in Croatia, due to the footage that appeared. There, too, are fighting, and there is everything under the mandate of the UN. Therefore, it cannot be an excuse for assessing the security and defence interests of the Republic of Serbia. The issue concerned, I will once again point out, to the participation of the Republika Srpska Army in peacekeeping missions commanded by and managed by the EU, in several cases, and this is what the minister said in the replica, that those missions are also attended by countries that have not recognised KIM, but are dominantly involved by those who have recognised. Now you state as an argument, because there are both those who are not friends and with them that we should be, by the way, and with those who have not confessed, is not enough reason to justify such participation. I ask – will Serbia participate in EU civilian missions after signing the agreement with the EU and effectively starting to comply with its security and defence policy? Now we come up with a fundamental question: will Serbia then, will it have such state power, and we have seen that it is not, exactly, when it comes to agreeing politics with the EU, when it has agreed to withdraw its own "Resolution on Kosovo" and accepts the one imposed by Catherine Ashton, who is far more unfavourable for us tomorrow, can say "no" if the EU says – you must participate in the forces of Eulex in Kosovo?- I'm sorry. I am absolutely convinced that we will not get such a negative response from Serbia. They will tell you – now that you have signed the agreement, you will now literally enter Mission Eulex, to accept the role of Eulex in Kosovo, which supports Ahtisaari's plan, because this will be a condition for Serbia's further progress in European integration. It's a fundamental question we didn't get an answer to. Can it be said here – no, never Serbia, whoever presses it from the EU, will not accept the civilian missions it does not want?- I'm sorry. Do we have that state power and the state power to do that? We have not shown in any situation so far that we have, which is why the EU knows, and that is why the start – we better agree immediately on the security policy area, and then move on to other aspects of realisation, primarily, of the EU's interest. I repeat, it may be a concept, it is a legitimate concept, that all security problems and doubts of Serbia are resolved by entering the NATO Pact and the EU. It is a legitimate concept, and can be said – then we have no problem with the threats, challenges and risks we now have. In addition, to think about it this way, I would like to remind myself that in a document on the Ministry of Defence's website, the White Paper of Defence said that the definition of Southeast European countries for NATO membership contributes to increasing security in Southeast Europe and that this commitment to Euro-Atlantic integration and NATO membership will contribute to the security of Southeast Europe. Now, there's one problem, and that's what Serbia is, in order for the whole story to get round, in that concept of security to enter the NATO Pact, then the whole story would be over. This concept is known in some circles as the concept of the security community. We all have security interests, let's bring them together – we respect each other and we will work together and solve global, regional, national and security challenges and threats. But there is one problem in this case, in the case of Serbia. There is a security dilemma, which is Kosovo, which was highlighted by the government itself, the minister, proposing strategies here in the National Assembly, which are very concrete, it is seen that they are based on the good knowledge of the people who wrote them in the Strategic Planning Department or in another sector of the ministry, there it is said that Kosovo and the declaration of Kosovo's independence is the biggest security threat. Now, we have a situation that most of the countries in Southeast Europe, our neighbours, have recognised Kosovo, that NATO is present in Kosovo to support security forces, and at this point we want to say – well, that doesn't matter, we are entering these integrations, Kosovo is lost anyway, it will calm it down there, because we won't be threatened if we are part of these integrations. The question that is open here, at the outset, is – what is Serbia's specific national security interest in Somalia? It says it's a condition to adopt the Army's annual plan to define it. We didn't get it in an explanation, we didn't hear it today in this debate. But he must be defined to send officers there and fulfill their mission, as it is proposed by this decision. The key problem, of course, and the issue, is the announcement that a NATO Pact summit in Belgrade will be held in June, and a new strategic concept of the alliance has been announced. That's how it was in the media, maybe it wasn't true, but it was such an announcement. The strategic concept and the declaration, adopted there, discusses the official role of NATO's pact in strengthening Kosovo's security forces and improving human rights and stability in Kosovo. Will this be debated in the middle of the Serbian capital and perhaps realise that NATO's pact has done everything, strengthened the separatist forces and can now slowly withdraw?- I'm sorry. With all these problems, along with all these political dilemmas, with all these political differences, such a summit in Belgrade should not be held, and certainly, in a situation where the NATO Pact threatens the security of the Republic of Serbia, because if you say in documents that Kosovo's independence is the biggest threat, and then we deepen and strengthen relations with an organisation that maintains and supports their security forces, we come to a conflict in defining politics or, at least, we didn't understand it very well. We would like to get a concrete answer to the question – where is the security and defence interest? In this regard, until all these issues are discussed with both the EU and the NATO Pact, on the one hand, there should be no participation in these two missions, it will be very interesting to see what kind of security agreement will be, and on the other hand, not to deepen relations within the Partnership for Peace, however, we should look for information on this, and I believe that we will have the opportunity to discuss this, what has been done in the whole process so far, given that a number of these documents or information on activities do not have the opportunity to see at any site of any institution. It is also a problem, because it is very important that the National Assembly is informed about it. Here are two more questions: when will the National Assembly be presented with a long-term plan for the development of the Army, given that I have been able to see that most of the documents are brought in, and this is the topic to be discussed by the National Assembly, because through this we will be able to see, as the National Assembly, what are the key plans on the security integration of this government? Is one of these strategies being avoided because no final political decision has been made whether or not further security integration within the NATO Pact will take place with what dynamics? The issue for the Assembly's presidency, given that the State of Preparation Report has arrived, should take place a debate in the National Assembly and on the document, on the report. Surely, it will also be interesting to hear, simply, the whole process of what was done in the army as it progressed, as well as where are we when it comes to our military power and our perspectives? We won't support this decision. We think it is politically harmful and does not contribute to the achievement of the national security interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50266	11 minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a defence minister, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50267	The essence of our relations in the area of defence with all the countries in the world, whether bilateral or multilateral, is that we are actually building partner relations. In these partnership relationships, no one can force you to participate in anything you don't want. It's just that this kind of commitment doesn't take place, so you have no reason to have fears about it. I would fully understand what you are saying about apropo participation in peacekeeping missions, that there is no concrete government decision from 2006 to participate in the Mission in Afghanistan, a government just headed by Vojislav Kostunica. Afghanistan President Karzai could also say what you quoted back then, but regardless, you were concerned that Serbia was taking part in a NATO operation for the first time. I understand that it happened on February 17th, but you never gave us an explanation of why you made that decision the way you made it, which then forced you to make that decision. What has changed in Serbia's security interest since February 17th, because if you ask Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija today who provides them with stability and peace, they tell you, exactly, KFOR. I must remind you that the Kumanovski Agreement, which was defined in June 1999, Serbia's military, or then Yugoslavia's Army, is forbidden, not only in Kosovo and Metohija, but in a 25km zone around Kosovo and Metohija. Meanwhile, with the wise policy of Zoran Djindjic, we have managed to return to that space and establish partnership with those who are concerned about the security of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. And today we come to a situation that is very unusual, which is that citizens at the same time want EU accession, have a problem accepting Eulex, do not want to join NATO, but are asking to remain KFOR units in Kosovo and Metohija. The defence ministry's interest is certainly for Kosovo and Metohija to be a stable zone. We will agree that without KFOR, there is hardly any international authority that can maintain stability above all in the interests of the minority people, which are Serbs. Our interest is primarily the security of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, no matter what nationality they are. We build that interest through partnership with those who have the power to influence that security. And we didn't choose those partners, you and those partners established those relationships back in the day when we weren't in power. The entry into the Partnership for Peace was 2006, what was that explained? With what wish? That Serbia should be part of the world based on partner relations. In this same Partnership for Peace, there is a large number of countries that do not think that NATO will ever be their starting point, which is one, quite a natural thing. What is also interesting today when we talk about peacekeeping missions, we have no dilemma, neither you nor I, whether it is good or necessary from the aspect of citizens' security, because in the time when Vojislav Kostunica was president of Yugoslavia we have opened the first peacekeeping mission since the beginning of the 1990s. We went to East Timor, then, in 2004, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Burundi, Congo. So that's not the question we're discussing, we're discussing a question called the system of values. Today in parliament, the point we are discussing is not a system of values. The fact that you are against European values, which you do not want to accept that Serbia can be an equal EU member and decide on its future with those who are currently deciding our future, is something else. What you want us to be an inactive member, well, why didn't you say that when you joined? What changed now in EU-Serbia relations, and you say it's March 17th? I know that March 17th is an excuse for everything you showed while you were in power and now as an opposition, but it's not enough. Simply, the security of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija cannot depend on your will; to stick your head in the sand thinking that your lower back is also in the sand. So we need to see how we can defend citizens with problems. And it's only through cooperation. Whether we like that co-operation or not, well, that's irrelevant. Absolutely irrelevant. Politics is the art of solving problems in a viable way, not one philosophy in which you are now asking Serbia to withdraw from all international institutions where people who have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence are. Well, how is it not? What difference does it make? Why should we now discuss with the EU that has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija globally? Why is this our problem with joining this system of values that Serbian citizens want? The same thing is the Partnership for Peace. Even, I mean, I never counted, that there are more countries in the Partnership for Peace that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija than those that are, but, Serbia, regardless of its stomach cramps compared to the past, has to think about the future. I don't know how you think we're solving a problem that we've defined as a security risk if we don't cooperate. In what way? On the contrary, I mean, just in a way that makes us important to those who matter and we can contribute to affecting their mood. Unfortunately, the issue of NATO membership opened in the early 1990s, almost certainly, was that at least there were no victims in the way it was in the former Yugoslavia. That vision was not the political establishment at the time. You don't have one today. It's not even the idea to discuss it. The theme is – why it is acceptable to participate in one mission, and, you say, it is not in another. The EU, if that is the problem, then we have a fundamental problem that we should not discuss in this proposal at all? By the way, we will assure you in some elections where you will be against the EU and we for the EU, so this will be resolved very easily and easily. And secondly, you often use falseness. I'm monitoring the events, the Chief of General Staff of the Croatian Army has not been removed, as you said. There, as you know, a new president has been elected, a new minister and a new Chief of Staff. One process is happening because Mr. Lucic has been Chief of Staff for two years now and something has happened which is the natural course of things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50268	National MP Jovan Palalic. Explanation. Right on the line. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50269	On co-operation with partners in the KIM area for the security of citizens, that's the problem, Mr. Minister. You know him well, but now in this address you've kept your mouth shut or you didn't mention him for any other reason. The NATO Pact itself and KFOR, by transferring responsibilities to the separatist Kosovo security forces and their training, by withdrawing, on the basis of their decisions, in fact, are doing everything to bring to life the institutions of a self-proclaimed fake Kosovo in a future period. Well, that's the essence of the story. These partners we need to talk to, they decided to back off because they have other interests somewhere else. During this period, they are doing everything to strengthen institutions in the area of security of the false state and that these institutions, which we know what they think about Serbs, whose organs they have been extracting, should guarantee security. The question is, to what extent and how was the controversy or conversation with these partners about this issue being conducted? Is it foreshadowed that what you just said, that security there is threatened, that no one else can guarantee it? No, but it simply happened and allowed the KFOR withdrawal process to go. The second question, when we mention the Partnership for Peace, you know very well that the basic document said that it would discuss and consult with all partner countries when one of these countries felt that sovereignty and territorial integrity were at stake. Has Serbia ever raised the issue under the Partnership for Peace programme? Is the mechanism of that document activated, as it were... (President: Two minutes. We believe that our sovereignty is at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50270	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50271	This is a question I was about to ask you – why did you enter the Partnership for Peace and not ask that question? Why did you enter the Partnership for Peace and not ask the issue of co-operation with KFOR? Are we discussing KFOR or NATO with regard to reducing the number of KFOR states? In every conversation, and believe that there are notes from all the meetings, from the lowest to the highest, that every moment we insist that everything they do should be in the interest of all the citizens who live on KIM and their safety. Unfortunately, we can't influence. Why can't we influence? Well, because we weren't even partners, even though we were in the Partnership for Peace, because we were being dishonest the way you went around to confirm it. You didn't answer - how did you decide to participate in NATO's operation in Afghanistan? That decision was made by the government, in which Kostunica was prime minister and, skillfully or unknowingly, you avoid telling us here. And today we recommend that we go to Somalia, with two captains of a battleship, to open up a new era of Europe and Serbia's relations, in which Serbia becomes a partner with Europe and security, such as partner with Europe in police affairs, so that we are also in the defence system, as we are partners in many other things. Why? We believe that this is the capacity we have, which has not been used enough for our foreign policy to exert influence beyond the borders of our country, in favour of whom? In favour of the citizens of this country! The Ministry of Defence, or the military, is an instrument of foreign policy. With what wish? With a desire to impose ourselves as someone who is truly aware of the weight of the time we live in. That weight of time refers to our environment. Why do we think it's better to integrate the countries around us? Because of the complete belief that this will homogenise their political scene and allow prosperity in a way that will not lead to a threat to security in their territories. For what? Because we are responsible for all citizens who live not only in Serbia, but also in the environment. I don't single out Serbs in the environment, but I'm setting out the whole environment, because you can't make a single flow of security so it bypasses you. It's just that it can't do that. Historical facts show that what we did before was not good. Now we're trying to find a way to make things right and the hardest thing about it is who? Well, to those who will participate in peacekeeping missions, and therefore I ask you to give support to them. What you're saying is not an issue for parliament on this subject either. It is a topic for a public debate or a television show where you and I will face views whether Serbia should be in the EU or not, and whether Serbia should bury itself in a hole while global integration processes occur, until we resolve our most painful issue. Unfortunately, you can't go into politics, you can't go into medicine, you can't solve the question unless you approach that question to solve it. By turning the other way, you won't get rid of him. Should I remind you who entered Kosovo in 1999? I would like the most to co-operate with other countries that are in Kosovo and have not recognised Kosovo, but they are not there. Why aren't they here? Well, I don't know. They were, they weren't anymore. KFOR is a reality, whether I want it or not. Ask the people who are from Kosovo! What if KFOR wasn't there? Well, it'd be terrible, you and I agree. Don't make me justify something and explain something that you've been very effective at participating in for as many years as you've been in power, and you've been as little as we have, if not more. Which is a simple thing. I say again, we're banalizing a very important thing in the world. When such decisions are made, applause ends for those who have the courage to participate in something called global peace and global security. Big shipments are being made at the stadiums to support these soldiers. These soldiers don't have much ahead of Serbia, but let's give them support and say, boys and girls, good for you! What you're doing is for the future and for yours and for ours, and for all the children of the world. Because, as you can see, so quickly security or insecurity flows from one point in the world to another. It's like a virus, H1N1. We don't know where he started, but he quickly ruled the whole world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50272	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. After him is the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic, then the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50273	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, you who watch this transmission, I have little information about this agenda point ahead of this extraordinary National Assembly meeting, and I have seen that in many countries there are bodies that decide to participate in the military of these countries in peacekeeping operations on the territory of other countries. Depending on the degree of democracy or how they understand the role of the military in their societies, there are various kings, presidents, emirs, and in many cases the governments of the countries concerned decide to use their military forces in other countries' territories. which, thank God, exists and the Constitution has been resolved, which is why it is the Minister in the Assembly that the National Assembly decides on a proposal from the Government, or the Resort Ministry, or Mr Minister. And since most of our MPs and citizens know of the positive role our country, whatever its name is, from the FNRJ, has had in these peace operations, and therefore this should be one of the points that lasts five minutes, unnecessary to promote anyone, though I admit, I have a weakness towards the defence minister, the military commander and the military to look at them in a more positive way, since I've known myself, since I was a military official and a minor, independent of the regime, was he democratic or non-democratic, whoever led the state and whoever was the defence minister. That doesn't mean, Mr. Minister, that, first of all, as a member of the Security Committee, I can't ask you a few questions, and I'm going to ask them, or I'm going to ask you again questions that I haven't gotten answers to so far. Perhaps these questions were not meaningful, and perhaps I wasn't qualified enough, but you could still give me an answer, at least a sense – it's not the subject of today's point, as you're going to say, or it's a matter of state or military secrets. We know that all members of the Security Committee, when verifying their membership on that committee, sign a statement that they will keep some state secrets, military secrets, declared by the authorities, and I think they are both the government and the Ministry of Defence, as well as the minister. I asked about so-called security assessments. To me from the point of view of the system of values, as you say, Mr. Minister, it's no problem at all that I don't know how many of our people go to try to prevent an accident in some part of the world, or to ease an accident, or to settle down some tribes and people there. Unfortunately, we were also calmed by other nations and other armies, whether we like it or not, in these areas, present and former. I want to know the answers to the questions I keep asking, and I don't get them. I hope that no one will conclude, nor will I, because I don't get answers to these questions, that civilian control, which is actually limited to the Defence and Security Committee, in this country does not exist. Citizens need to know that what we read as state and military secrets can be read in all the newspapers, just to be a little more careful and to be interested. And we, some days when we're told, go to one room and then, there, we read something that's funny, in itself, and I don't see what kind of state secret it is if it's in every newspaper, if official state officials say it and the press know it, but, well, we're still playing the Security Committee, and we control it. If that wasn't the case, that's why I'd ask you today -- how am I going to be a member of the Security Committee to control these people we're going to send to peace operations, what are they doing there? Do they really do what their mandate is, what we all desire, that decently, either in the contingent of a more powerful foreign country, and it seems to me, Spain, let them have, Mr. Minister, and the markings of our army, I am not at the end of our heart, and our coat of arms and our flag, but how do we know what they are really doing there, especially when it comes to the peace operations that concern Somalia? There are two types of operations, there are in Somalia itself and there are them in a neighbouring country where armies are trained to support the government, which, for now, by the international community, is a legal government, that they practically bring it to power. And you see what's happening in the Middle East these days. And, someone smarter than all of us, I think a journalist's rodent wrote to me these days to think about what this "East" is called the Middle East. Here, let's take, let's say, Libya: today is one, and there's no telling who else will be tomorrow. Don't fall out, Mr. Minister, believe me, I'm telling you the truth. And we support some regime there that needs to be established, and all these regimes are on the verge of some democracy and democracy, and the next day it turns out that others are actually in power. Then what's the security risk to us? This concerns many countries, where there are calls and organizations, various terrorist organisations, whom I will not give publicity or popularity in this House, but I asked you last time, Mr. Minister, who will be responsible if a member of a tribe whom the Security Council currently does not treat as a legal representative of the state, or legal authority, comes to downtown Belgrade with 500 grams of some explosives and enters a bus, so who will then be responsible, taking into account this and supporting these missions, to show that we have in some way stabilised ourselves as a country, that we can also help others maintain order in their countries. The people say well – what is for the house is not given in the church. Why am I telling you this, Mr. Minister? Two or three years ago, the director of one, let's say, is an important military dedicated enterprise. He died, Mr. Minister, just because that city didn't have a cardio-hall that cost how much this is where our people go. You know exactly who I'm talking about, I've asked around. I absolutely don't blame you for that. It was also ready for the Department of Defense and the military to give the helicopter and everything, but, man, he was sick of such a disease that he couldn't move. And in the explanation, it says, no one mentioned it, that it would cost, if I see it correctly, 642 million and so on. So much, about costing that angio-sala, that we're not talking about sanities that have some adequate equipment to save people, like me, Mr. Minister, three months ago, thank God they saved me. I was lucky to be in Belgrade, otherwise I'd end up like this fellow citizen of mine. These are questions, and when we talk about this topic, you have to understand that I'm talking about you, first of all, as a politician and the Ministry of Defense. I'm not talking about the General Staff or the officers or the army, because I have special emotions and I may not be objective or realistic because I love the Army of Serbia, the Serbian army. I might have a lot to criticise, too, but I can't, because I don't have a better army for now. Maybe it should, like someone said before, be a special subject, and this should have been a routine theme. And since, Mr. Minister, we don't have a chance to talk about the military and the Ministry of Defense, then when this topic comes up, we use it, so I ask you -- how is it possible that in the city where I come from, the home of JNA, what was it called, the bloody pay for the town of Cachak? Bloody and I mean completely unreal! All this was built by the people with his own hands and paid to the last dinar city of Cačak, without donations and Dinkic and anyone else, because it is a place in the center of the city. That's where the people used to gather, and that's where they're being abandoned right now. We'll rebuild, Mr. Minister, when the military and the Department of Defense get a building permit. Unfortunately, we bought something, and now the military doesn't have a building permit for it. We'll make this and the theater, the library, and we'll invite you, as Secretary of Defense, to open it. When I compare it to the fact, and I think I wrote it well, Mr. Minister, with the "Grasnica" barracks in Kragujevac, I think that's what it's called, it's without a word and without any tender, without any procedure given to a foreign private firm, not to a military, "Fiitata," then what does a man think? That we in the city of Chačka were discriminated against because the citizens voted that way?- I'm sorry. I really won't believe it, because until yesterday, until three years ago, I participated in a ruling coalition and I know how all the ministers, with all the mistakes they've had and what you're counting here now, and I can count them better, there's nothing disputed, treated all the cities. Now, these are the questions I wanted to ask you here, Mr. Minister, in the best interest. I believe that's how you'll understand it, and if you don't understand, I'll be ready to replicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50274	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50275	I'm sorry, Mr. MP, that you weren't at the opening exhibition, so you'd hear when I personally said how much the costs and how much the UN is paying, and how much we pay, what part goes for training, and what part goes for wages, etc., then you'd see that the costs aren't as much as you say. And by burdening us to be able to invest that money in an angio-hall in Cačka, I'll tell you that we succeeded after many years to buy a new angio-sala at VMA, but that we have no authority to buy angio-salas in other health institutions throughout Serbia. And, in the end, a very important thing that you're not deliberately telling in a way that you're telling the truth, and that's not being given to anyone. The Grosnica will be paid 660 million dinars for the Ministry of Defence; of which, we will be able to build about 25,000 squares of new warehouses that we need, to be structured in the best possible way, to have at least codes and finally control what we have in these warehouses. I can also show you the government's decision that's been made; in this year there's 550 million, and for the following year there's 110 million. When you talk about it, that someone has been given something, make sure that, as defence minister, I will not give anyone a single piece of property held by the Ministry of Defence or the Serbian Army, unrelated to who is in power in Cačka, who is in power in Subotica, who is in power in Leskovac or Nis. Everyone must, in accordance with the tax administration's estimates, be participating towards us in relation to the immovableity they take. The idea of the fever is very clear. In the next two years, we will leave our storerooms that are quite old, some are over 50 years old and in another space we will build new decorated warehouses, and there will be factories built, for which we as the Ministry of Defence have no influence, but I suppose a good part of the workers, i.e. the citizens of Kragujevac, will be employed. As for the gentleman who, you say, died of his heart, I really think it's completely inappropriate for you to talk about it, I chose him with my associate director. I'm sorry that it happened, but there's no point in putting it on the line, even if we're spending money because, believe me, Parliament's day is costing some money and some other devices can be bought for that money, so someone else can help, and if you banalise things like that, that Serbian citizens are paying you to come to Belgrade could also be for someone else's medicine, so he'll get better today. This kind of banalisation simply cannot exist, especially in the budget of our peacekeeping operations, which has nothing to do with health care, or within the military budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50276	National MP Miroslav Markicevic is again registered. I assume you want a replica, you don't have a basis for replication. You asked a question, the minister answered. It's out of the agenda, everyone has the right to take such a turn on the agenda, not to explain again what it's all about taking care of the agenda. Aging on the agenda implies that each of you is clear that the rules are equal for everyone. On Thursday, February 24th, there will be a session of "Salanic Issues", sessions with the current topic. Please, let's get back to the agenda. National MP Sreto Peric has a word, followed by MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50277	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, in addition to expertise and love for a job, I believe and argue, a dose of optimism is also needed. It seems to me that you, with too much optimism, are talking today about this subject that's on the agenda. I don't want to argue with you, but I really want to talk about these things in one academic way as much as possible, I expect you to do the same. But the fact that we are talking separately today about two points of the agenda, this is a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2011 and a proposal for a decision in the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011, points to what conditions we live in and what situation Serbian citizens expect the next days. When you perform with such a dose of optimism that you have very often I think that you may be a minister of military in Switzerland or in another country that has no economic or other problems, but we are still in Serbia. It would be nice, Madam Chairman, if Mr. Minister and MP Markicevic would continue the discussion at the time of the break, but I won't mind further talking about this subject, what I would like to say on behalf of the SRS and certainly on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister, I will try to separate the role of the defence minister into what concerns material and technical resources and what concerns the military of Serbia. When it comes to your material and technical relationship with what is worth having an army of Serbia, I have no idea that you haven't tried in a rather responsible way to make yourself available, but recently my thinking about it was knocked down for one step because you were praised by one of the former vice presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so, if he commends someone, I get the impression... (Minister Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: And Thomas commended me! )......................................................................................................... And this is particularly difficult for those who expect advanced Serbia along with some parties who are called alike. And that's not the topic I want to talk about. I really want to talk about the involvement of the Republic of Serbia Army in UN peacekeeping missions, so I see that you have here predicted two other locations that we can talk about. There's another situation that's got me worried. You're a skilled speaker, and I don't think you've had it. You said the defence ministry's interest in "Kosovo and Metohija is a stable zone". Why didn't you add a "stable zone within Serbia" because you didn't accidentally lose it? Well, then, I'm expressing one suspicion, so I get the impression that you're more of a global peace person, which we can't underestimate and we need to give him significant attention, but first we need to pay attention to what's going on with us. Someone said that in the March class of soldiers who want to volunteer to serve the army twice or three times, as you correct it, than the Serbian Army can provide. And do you know what that's about, Mr. Minister? Well, that's because this government didn't provide other jobs. Only because of that and what will be the salary, or the possibility of those who serve the military term is that they are also engaged professionally, so I think that's what dominates the decision-making of those persons. However, I do not ignore that there is still a large number of Serbian citizens, both Serbian and other nationalities, who want to serve the military deadline, but the fact is (real, right) that you say – the defence of the country is achieved by participating in multinational operations. The defense of the country is being carried out in some operations, in some of the activities carried out primarily here in the country. Certainly, it could be of the influence and involvement of our army in peacekeeping missions at other points. I ask – who produces these crises where we want to send the Army of Serbia? It's the ones you skillfully climb for, and you tried to explain to us who the Serbian Army will appear with here on EU-organised peacekeeping missions, so you listed some countries that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We should consider the fact, no matter what the reasons for non-recognition, we must respect that, that they did not do so for reasons that the same danger or similar threatens even them. That was why they didn't do it, but when you came to the head of the Department of Defense, why didn't you try, along with your associates, to honor Resolution 1244? Why didn't you do something? Why didn't you start and open these topics, respect or at least suggest, or demand those with whom we now want to co-operate to respect that resolution? All of this deeply convinces me that you are more of an official who wants some global peace than it is to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and thus also its 15 per cent area, because you do not show great will and interest resulting from the fact that you have said that the defence ministry's goal is'stable territory of Kosovo'. Well, it can't be without Kosovo in Serbia. And you said here that in addition to participating in UN-organised peacekeeping missions, and because of symbolic participation and association with the EU, because, as you said, some agreements will soon be signed. And what if it were like yesterday, one of the people who knew good security opportunities in Serbia, says -- that I was in the position of UN prosecutor Serge Brammertz, I wouldn't believe what the government is telling me in Belgrade? Well, above that, you, as Secretary of Defense, must imagine and answer such a question. You said there was no obligation to engage in voluntary missions, but it was on the principle of volunteering. What happens if we don't report the required number as planned? He's gonna leave less, or is someone still gonna have to leave? The funds that will be hired to send our army into multinational activities are not small. And you're saying that all of this will be returned to our country because it will be paid to them as a compensation for leaving. But first, take the bills of police and military members in Serbia and who work in difficult conditions, who have not recently received what they belong to, when it comes to their protective equipment that they need to regularly receive. It sometimes takes twice as long as the one that's supposed to, and they don't get boots or shoes, but what, let alone think about their promotion. First, we need to sort out the situation within our army, then send them to peace interventions, if there is a reason and if there are opportunities, but first, try to comply with Resolution 1244. This will show you that with the right, those who have shown you trust, sit in that place, and until you do so, the citizens of Serbia and we doubt that. Finally, I must tell you, it is hard for one who expects a better than the US democracy, from the NATO Pact, from the EU, from a democracy that the DS is propagating and certainly from the advanced Serbia promised by the SNS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50278	Nine minutes and 20 seconds were used. The People's MP Srdjan Mikovic has the word, followed by MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50279	Ladies and gentlemen, we are ahead of us with a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly will also consider a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011. The fact is that Serbia is not out of the world and the fact is that Serbian citizens are particularly concerned when some turbulence occurs, they are concerned about their sailors, they are concerned about workers, about tourists, when something happens in some part of the world. In any case, in order to ensure international peace, for all citizens of the world to be safe, it is once again necessary to ensure this peace on the side. There is a specific role of the UN in ensuring world peace. By signing the UN Charter, we have taken certain obligations. Also, as a country that wants to improve its role in general, both in the UN and in the world, we need to think about our contribution to world security. The involvement of our members in multinational operations is becoming an increasingly important element of our country's foreign policy and, in any case, a significant element of Serbia's involvement in international integration processes. I would like to give recognition from this place to the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, as well as the MUP, for my current engagement. I have to say, there was a need for a well-planned, quality work here. I'd point out one piece of information that's not very potent here, and I think it's extremely important. 212 members of our security forces, 23 of whom are women, participated in the peace operations so far. I would give them a special confession, pointing out that there were no victims in all these peace operations, no injured by members of anyone who came from Serbia. I think that indicates that they were obviously well-prepared and that there was enough thought about providing conditions for their safety. In any case, since we have been informed that the procedure for the conclusion of the security procedures for the exchange of confidential information has been launched and that the procedure for the conclusion of the general agreement on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in EU crisis management operations has started, I expect Serbia to continue in this direction and in the future. So, in the next period, to engage in all humanitarian character operations such as these, because I believe that Serbia must take its part in the preservation of peace, as well as creating conditions for normal life in conflict-affected areas. Finally, as MEP of the ZES Group, I urge you to support these two decisions in the voting day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50280	Four minutes and five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and after him Srdjan Milivojević, after him Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army and members of the Ministry of Defence in multinational operations in 2011. Proposers of this decision, therefore, the Ministry of Defence, are calling for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Article 140. The constitution, where, among other things, says the country's defences are being carried out in multinational operations. Of course, this is where they call for the Defense Act. However, if this decision is considered, on the one hand, it is formally correct and possible. But on the other hand, one very important and crucial question is whether the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens benefit from one such decision, or participation in these operations. Here, first of all, I mean those operations where our members of the armed forces and the Ministry of Defense should participate in units formed under the auspices of the EU. Of course, I am deeply convinced that Serbian citizens do not benefit from this. On the contrary, I think we'll only have the right damage. That is why we will not support the sending of these forces, especially within the framework of the EU forces. This parliament should make a decision to send our forces to a number of different countries and if it is looked here from the draft decision which countries are concerned we will see that some countries from West Africa, Liberia and Ivory Coast are concerned. There's also the Central African country of Congo, and there's the East African country of Somalia. A central African belt from the Atlantic coast to the coast of the Indian Ocean. There is also Cyprus, Haiti, and what is said in the proposal for a decision, the Middle East, is primarily referred to as Lebanon and the Golan highlands, and we know from geography that several Middle East countries are gravitating from Golan. It is also said that the engagement of the Serbian Army's capacity is also foreseen under the so-called stand by the UN arrangement. The initial engagement of two officers of river units within the EU maritime forces in the Republic of Somalia is also foreseen. I don't know what this is all about, when we all know it and everyone in the world knows that Serbia isn't a maritime country, but, well, that's what you decided, and that's your thing. The beginning of the operations, which are here, was established by the Security Council resolutions in different times, so we see that one of the first or, let's say, the oldest operations where our representatives go back in 1964 in Cyprus, while, let's say, the youngest resolution was established in 2009 in order to train the security forces of the Republic of Somalia and that in Uganda. The proposal for a decision also provides an overview of the security situation in the countries to which our representatives are sent. The assessment of this security situation is different, starting from stable, in most of these countries, as it is said, to a completely unstable situation in Somalia, and perhaps that's why training these forces for Somalia is done in Uganda as well. However, I would take this stability assessment with a proper reserve. We saw, and here they can agree with the minister, he said in a replica to one of the MPs that stability is a relative category. We have only seen what has happened in the last month, two days in the countries of North Africa, which have been valid for stable countries, so this assessment that you present to the MPs and the public of Serbia should be taken with a reserve. Because if the situation is really so stable, as is said here, then the question is why are missions being sent? Therefore, where it is stable, missions are not sent, and here we see that it is done. Let's say we have a Cyprus case. There, the situation is constantly assessed as stable, and for more than 46-47 years, as many as there are, there are international troops present, either in this form or in that form. One reason for making these decisions is to maintain the world's peace and security. It's said in your explanation. However, I would define that security in a different way. First of all, I am experiencing this, now I am returning to our army, to our field, how many our army, how capable it is, how technically and materially qualified it is and how respectable it is to all those who have some aspirations towards us, especially those who have occupied part of our territory, it is, of course, about Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, we all know what our army is like. Today, it is such that it does not pose a serious obstacle to anyone in possible bad intentions towards the state of Serbia. We also know who's responsible for all this. The main culprit for the state of our army and the situation our army has come to is all the authorities since 2000, and we know who was the first minister in charge of that army when it began to collapse. But this government has some concept that everything is solved by diplomacy, and that anything is possible by diplomacy, and we've seen your diplomacy work many times. That's why we have one piece of occupied territory, and that's why there's a lot of problems, not just with us, but in the rest of the world. I'll remind you here, first of all, Mr. Secretary, that Otto von Bizmark once said, "Diplomacy without weapons is the same as an orchestra without instruments." So we have unjustly brought our army, and many and in every other way, to that level that it, unfortunately, does not represent one serious factor for anyone in the world. If you are already going to send our people on certain missions, I think it would be much better to make these missions so that all of our people go on a mission, under the Serbian flag, under a Serb coat of arms, under a Serbian flag, under a Serbian name, and that it is known that in one of these countries, where it is going, someone was protected by a Serb soldier, that someone was helped by a Serb soldier, that a Serb soldier helped to establish peace somewhere or, possibly, some other benefit for that population where it is going. And like this, you send a few people on this mission, a few people there, a few people there. Simply, if it were possible to conduct a survey in the countries where our representatives are going, since there are no signs of us, surely those people would not even know that there are representatives of the Serb army on their territory. I find sending this kind of partial to different missions a small number of people, no use at all. Indeed, I think, despite these missions we're talking about here and you're proposing, the Ministry of Defense should pay more attention to the recently formed Emergency Centre with the Russian Federation. It's about the Nish Center. Since we know that Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is coming to Serbia soon, here is an ideal opportunity to deepen co-operation on this, so that the Emergency Centre, which I'm talking about, can liven up. If you look at the suggestions of these decisions, you can see that the very interesting explanation of the goals achieved by using our army in these operations is. It says, I will quote this: "The participation of our army makes a concrete contribution to respecting international law and protecting international peace." Here you can really see all your consistency and your policy's far-sightedness. These same countries, with which you are defending international law today, only ten years ago, violated this international peace in the most harsh way, and that international law, on the very case of our country. Indeed, ten or eleven years is a small period so that some things can be forgotten so quickly. I think the citizens of Serbia remember well and will always remember, and that memory is still fresh, who bombed them. We now have our representatives in the field with them in some other countries. Whether international law applies to you from the moment you decided to send our soldiers on these missions or it was true when those same countries, which are here, were sowing bombs in Serbia. Where there's no justice for all, there's no justice for anyone. Where justice doesn't always apply, it never does. At the end of my discussion, I want another review of the financial aspects of these decisions. We've heard that there are 640-dollar funds and a few million dinars here. The sum of 640 million dinars is the sum which represents a significant sum to this poor country and the poor people, and I think these funds could have been used in a better and more meaningful way. We heard from the minister that, practically, participation in these operations voluntarily, people volunteer, and then people from the Ministry of Defense are making a selection of those who are really going to take part in these peace missions. Given that only a decade ago, we had a NATO bombing in Kosovo, that we had many people who took part in the direct struggles in opposing the enemy, aggressor, I asked Mr. Minister -- are there any missions of those people who participated in direct fights in Kosovo and Metohija against NATO aggression? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50282	From the time of the parliamentary group, 13.35 minutes have been used. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50283	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at "The Meeting" this year, 2011, Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, presented, among other things, the Golden Medal of Courage "Milos Obilic" and Biljana Lazarevic, who was a member of the first MUP contingent in the UN Peace Mission in Liberia and a commander of the Serbian police contingent in the UN Peace Mission in Haiti. Whenever someone says -- what will the Serbian military and police in Haiti, what our army in Liberia, and whether or not we as a member of the UN respect our obligation and participate in UN peacekeeping missions, whenever someone thinks that our army should only be marked by what it was marked during the 1990s and that our police should bear only the mortgage of that policy that this country has brought to where it has brought in the 1990s, should look me in the eyes and not in the mirror, should stand before Mrs Biljana Lazarevic and congratulate her on behalf of the state of Serbia, in their own name, and then congratulate those who have made the decision to send that contingent of military and police there. Because if any other policy had been asked in this country, had some other people decided, Biljana Lazarevic would never have gone to Haiti, never would have saved human lives there, never celebrated the name of the Republic of Serbia, never would the world have known that our soldiers and police officers were brave and noble, but our officers and soldiers would only carry the burden of the 90s mortgage. Those who are the loudest to complain about the decision to send these soldiers and police officers to these peace missions are now spilling crocodile tears, and directly by their policies they are responsible for that mortgage that the military and police carried during the 1990s. The history of the participation of our soldiers in peacekeeping missions, the history of Serbia, is quite long. We have also participated in peacekeeping missions within the SFRY and our soldiers, but primarily officers, and how we have celebrated by commanding international forces, by participating in the ceasefires in numerous wars, protecting the refugees, protecting the powerless and in a very honorable way, have done the job responsibly, professionally and primarily preserve the reputation and army, and today the police and these countries and those representing them in those countries, which are citizens of Serbia. The history of the participation of our soldiers in peacekeeping missions, the history of Serbia, is quite long. We participated in peacekeeping missions within the SFRY and our soldiers, but primarily the officers, and how they celebrated by commanding international forces, by participating in the ceasefires on numerous battlefields, protecting the refugees, protecting the powerless and doing this work in a very honorable way, responsibly, professionally and primarily preserved the reputation and military, and today the police, and these countries, as well as those represented in those countries, which are citizens of Serbia. I will read to you what Mrs. or Ms. Biljana Lazarevic, from the Police Administration, said when she received the "Milos Obilić" medal: "I personally would not point out that I am the only woman here, because this is a reward for humanity, humanity and professionalism. I'd love to, again, go on some peace mission, but the MUP is now only in two, in Liberia and Haiti, and I've been in both. Our soldiers and officers are at the level of those we consider the best," Biljana says. And, by doing so, Mrs. Biljana, best fit all those who say - we don't need our army there to go, we don't need our police to go there! At least you could give her a round of applause when she got that medal, if you can't figure out the importance that even women officers can give on peace missions. If you don't already understand where the world is going, in which direction the planet is turning, then at least don't stop us who want to be heard for Serbia's sake in a positive light, to make bold and bold decisions, aimed at celebrating the name of Serbia around the world and that our people are once again amazed by the world, as the Serbian army has always done. We've had thousands of sons and daughters like Mrs Biljana Lazarevic and God forbid they go around the world to celebrate our country's name, celebrate the name of Serbia, and never come here again, but only to go on peace missions around the world, because this shows the strength of our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50284	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. This concludes the morning part of our work. I'm setting a break. We continue our work this afternoon, at 3 p.m., with the follow-up of the debate, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word, in a single review of the draft decision referred to in item 3 of the agenda. The People's Messenger Bojan Mladenovic will have the word, and after him will be the Messenger Mirko Munjic. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate on the basis of the order of MPs to apply for a word in a single search on the draft agenda item 3, the draft decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011. The People's MP Bojan Mladenovic has the right to speak, followed by MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50286	Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Serbia, differing political views on whether Serbia should be in the EU or not to determine today's discussion, the definition of political parties, whether to participate in missions under the auspices of EU member states or not. As for UN peacekeeping operations in Lebanon, Cyprus, the Ivory Coast, we absolutely have nothing against it, but we are certainly against multinational military operations under the auspices of the EU. This annual plan states that participants in these missions will be, among other things, doctors, medical technicians, surgeons, orthopedics, anesthesiologists, etc. I ask the question – is there always enough volunteering for both missions, can certain persons be pressured, threatened and fired, or similar, to find and provide, above all, a sufficient number of doctors to participate in these military missions? The SRS absolutely believes that it should not participate in EU-sponsored missions, because we have had a very bad experience when it comes to EU members who participated primarily in the bombing of our country. We have reason to doubt their intentions whether they are just or not, whether they represent their interests or interests in these areas, as they did in the area of KIM. I must remind everyone that just now EU members have done nothing to protect the Serb people in KIM, who has been oppressed, murdered, banished for years. They openly sided with Albanians, supported them for several years, they admitted so-called. Independent Kosovo, they take away some of our territory and these are facts that point to us that EU members are not interested in justice, but are looking exclusively at their own interests. We do not want co-operation with those countries, within these missions, which took part in the NATO Pact intervention, which was carried out without the approval of the Security Council, without a UN decision, which violates its Charter. The attack was carried out on a sovereign state that did not endanger any member of the alliance under the imaginary term "humanitarian intervention", because humanitarian intervention as a concept does not exist in international law. Despite all of this, there is aggression on our country in 1999, where we were just a trial polygon to see if anyone would object primarily to world cop number one, U.S.A., who immediately thereafter intervened in Afghanistan in 2001, then Iraq in 2003. EU members used ammunition filled with impoverished uranium, as well as tape bombs to bomb civilian targets. Over 2,000 civilians were killed, and NATO's commander said the victims were collateral or collateral damage. The attacks lasted no more than 78 days. Under the auspices of these EU countries, it has been expelled, i.e. Several hundred thousand Serbs have escaped from the KIM area. Under these missions, as is stated in this annual plan, our participants should co-operate with Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg and Greece. The first six countries, of the eight mentioned, took part in the bombing of our country: both Italy and the Netherlands, and Germany, and France, and Spain and Belgium. How can we trust someone who killed innocent civilians in the whole of Serbia, someone who bombed hospitals, someone who targeted about 40 institutions and settlements, someone who took down the Petrovaradin Bridge, bombed the New Sad Bridge, also a bridge in Backo Palanca, who bombed Toplan in New Belgrade, the Chačka building "Freedom", the TV Novi Sad building, in Kursumlia "The Wood Comb", in the Royal Fuel Storage of Beopetrol, in the Smeder's gas station, in the Panchet oil refinery?- I'm sorry. How can we trust someone whose bombs in the village of Gracanica are bombed houses, the bombed monastery "Gražanica", the Vranje house near the bus station, the Nis warehouse of the "Duvanska industry", the community, the children's clinic, the Lukas' chemical industry, the Sombor "The Oil Industry of Serbia", the Zemun "Robna House", the "Dom of Health" and "Emergency Aid", in Bogoje partially destroyed the bridge?- I'm sorry. How can we cooperate with them, how can we trust them, to be our friends, our associates? They shot and damaged the “City Hospital” in Belgrade and the hospital in Vranja, the Toplica River Bridge, the Surdulica Primary School, the Čačka children’s kindergarten, the Lučana “Hemis industry”, the Nis factory “Jasravac” and “Fidelinka”, the main bus station, then the “Red Flag” Institute in Kragujevac, the village of Merdare, the “Slatina” airport near Pristina, the passenger train in the Grdelička klisura, the car factory “Stavat” in Kragujevac, the Banjica VMA, the old bridge on Rasina, the Valjev factory “Krusik” etc. And so on!- I'm sorry. I listed only one part of what these countries bombed in the period from March 24th to April 17th, in just the first twenty days of aggression. I deliberately listed the events just until April 17th, because that day an innocent three-year-old girl, Milica Rakic, died in the bathroom of her apartment in Batajnica! Her death became a symbol of the death and suffering of children during and after the bombing of our country. After this event, it is illusory to list anything further. I just don't want it, and I can't forget it, and I don't want to forgive those who did it. In view of all these facts, I believe that we should not participate in military missions, no matter where they are carried out, if they are under the auspices of EU member states. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50287	Six minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and he is the last to be reported on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you just said one sentence, at first glance and seemingly short, but I would say, very summed up. You said, in the context of the participation of our units "from the point of view of small Serbia" etc. etc. As a Serbian radical, whose concept of 'great Serbia' is at heart, I would like to ask you a question about this and in the context of this story about the participation of our units. For example, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg and Greece participate in multinational military operations in Somalia. It's all the countries that sort of go out to sea, sea land. This is about, Mr. Minister, and a maritime operation and it's the only Serbia that's not a maritime country, and it's going to take part in this operation. Well, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, don't you happen to prefer Serbia to go out to sea tomorrow? If that's the case, then maybe I wouldn't say what I'm about to tell you later, but then we'd have to agree that this is a big Serbia, not a small one, as you just said. Here you wrote: 'The security situation in the Somalian Republic is unstable, due to the presence of criminal groups that are the organisers of pirate attacks in the coastal belt of the Somalian Republic. The presence of military maritime forces, European Union countries, the North Atlantic Alliance, Russia, China, Japan and other countries in the area of operation significantly reduces safety risks and threats at sea." You say, Mr. Minister, that Serbia should be proud of participation in multinational operations by members of the Serbian Army, which is trying to establish, as you say, global peace. Not because of you, I'm sure you know perfectly well where our troops are going and what they're going to be going to, but for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, the public, I'd like to say a few words about some places, some destinations where you're going to direct these soldiers and officers. The Somalian Republic is one of the poorest countries in Africa, one of the poorest countries in the world. Its coast is about 2,700 km long. There's no state control of the economy. There's a social, health, education, and other system that doesn't exist either. A civil war in the Somalian Republic, with shorter interruptions, has lasted since 1977. What is also very important and significant is that the northern coast of Somalia is a pirate base, which attacks maritime traffic between Europe and the East. Only lucky people from this country manage to escape and leave the Somalian Republic to flee to Yemen or Kenya, and more than a million people there are placed in internal refugee camps. In Somalia, there is a kind of nomadic society, where about five clans fight for power. It's about some area where our soldiers, our officers, will participate in a peace mission. What is very important, Mr. Minister, is the new conflicts in Somalia in February, this year, 2011. They say the fierce struggles in the Somalian Republic that began again in February 2011, less than a month ago, and that they were fought among the warring clans, that there were many dead, injured, etc. This is just one of the destinations, one of the countries in which the troops will be stationed. When you got a call to participate in this, as you call it, a peace operation, although I think there's nothing out of that "peace" clause, I'm interested in whether you had in mind this continuation of severe conflicts, did you know about it, did you present to those people going to the Somalian Republic, do they know where they're going, what the situation is and what it's going to be?- I'm sorry. Next, you say they go there voluntarily and exactly, they go there voluntarily. However, the question arises whether there is anything other than this classical and absolute volunteering. Is the economic moment perhaps essentially a priority for their departure to such a dangerous destination? If not, then what's the priority? Without a hint of malacity, I'm interested in this as one question, and I hope you'll give me an answer to that, why in this plan that you presented to the Assembly, and regarding these operations in the Somalian Republic, there's no decadent statement as to how many members of the army will be engaged? It's just said here, namely, the Ministry of Defence plans an initial engagement with two River Units officers in 2011. Right? Why is it just saying initial engagement? We have no data in this annual plan, which you present here to the Assembly, what after that initial engagement. Do you think that a two-way squad like this can be led under this decision tomorrow and a hundred, two hundred, three hundred and perhaps more soldiers? Will you need a new decision or with this decision that you make, likely today in the congregation, will you be misleading? Or, you, perhaps, here you're looking for some bluish decision by the Assembly, so that you can send as many needs there tomorrow and as many demands as they ask? No exact number of soldiers to go after, so I wonder what the total number is for this Somalian Republic, which will be hired later? Usually, Mr. Minister, in some of these commissioned and paid research, it's been reported that trust in our army has grown. Have you ever wondered if that's really true? Have you ever done any impartial research to get the right information? Has trust grown because of some of the things you say have contributed or is it something else? Is it a misery, perhaps? Is it, Mr. Minister, misery, poverty, poverty, unemployment? Did the military make it a social institution to take care of that category of people? What do you think, maybe, is that not the point?- I'm sorry. Do you know, Mr. Minister, I see you're in the mood for a replica, did you investigate, here are some questions for you, what is the percentage of the elders and soldiers in our army to go to these multi-ops? Have you done internal research, but independent, what is the percentage of our elders and soldiers to enter the country into NATO? It would be very interesting to do that research. Do you, Mr. Minister, think a salary of 30 or 35,000 dinars is enough for military professionalism or is that perhaps a social category? I think it's an extremely social category, that in this way nowhere in the world will succeed, and neither will we, to professionalise the army. It's true, you'll say that those who go there will earn a lot more. That is, I'm sure, the fact, however, the question arises whether the profit they will have in these multinational operations is worth their lives. Because of the need of the EU, and not for the protection of our children, as you said, you send them there into the hands of those Somali pirates, you send them into the hands of various gangs, various warring clans, etc. Mr. Minister, do you have a clear strategy for who, if necessary tomorrow, and every country is preparing to defend our country? You will make this army a social category, that's for sure. You'll create a social institution. As a result of this economic collapse, people will be employed there, trying to find an arrest in our army, and that basic goal of security and defence of the country will be ignored. Mr. Minister, have you conducted any security assessments in your ministry regarding the departure of our troops to these peacekeeping missions, security assessments compared to numerous Islamic terrorist organizations operating around the world? And you know why I ask you this. It is mainly peace missions in countries that are predominantly or dominantly Islamic countries. Is there a security assessment, as is done in the United States, Russia, etc., regarding these terrorist organisations which aim to act, surely, after some of these multinational operations? The army is being sent to multinational peacekeeping missions, and what does the Ministry do about modernising our army? Is that perhaps a priority to sending our officers and our soldiers on these peace missions? Mr. Minister, have you ever, for example, suddenly entered a barracks in the morning to see what our soldiers and our officers look like in certain barracks during the morning lineup? Is their clothes, shoes, etc. at an envious level? Is it regulated how it should be regulated to make our army extremely professional, what are you trying to do? What is it, Mr. Minister, weapons, equipment in our army? Is that what some Europeans require, not to say world standards? Did we achieve that goal that a modern army should achieve? Mr. Minister, these are all questions that require your answer. The particular question is whether and how many times have you asked, as mentioned earlier, for the consistent implementation of the provisions of Resolution 1244 regarding the presence of our army in KIM? Ladies and gentlemen, responsible national policy should be led by reputation for others. If you can't run it by the reputation of Serbian history that gives you numerous examples of it, but it seems that the Serbian history of many here is really foreign, then why don't you look up to some of the newer history, from the present history, and in the end other countries might look up to them, for example, to China, which, when signing a contract with Belgrade, Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know that you know about the concession of land on which the embassy of China, which NATO forces bombed in 1999, had in that contract only a single condition – that never this land was sold to any of the NATO alliance countries. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's how responsible national policy is run, that's what they think of their own national interests. So because of the destruction of their embassy building, that piece of their country never lets it be owned by those who destroyed it. And this country, after thousands and thousands of innocent victims in 1999, after the collapse and damage measured by billions of euros, seems to want some to embrace the same NATO pact. Think about these topics a little bit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50289	16 minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50290	Dear Vice President, it's clear to all my colleagues that I wouldn't take my word for it if I could get a replica in the afternoon, but because of the business provisions, I didn't believe it, and I'm going to believe it, so part of this time, I hope that the minister will be constructive and I won't use all the time for what I wanted to tell him. I refuse to insinuate any insinuation that the minister has in my account and because of the family, and also because of thousands of people who are suffering from similar diseases. It's an honor to you. I don't think, Mr. Secretary, I've contributed or given the right in any word to answer that, but it's your style and your education. Moreover, I think I gave you an example of tolerance and a patriot who's worried about certain things, so I'd ask you some questions. You answered how you responded. If that's what you want, it's your problem, but I won't give up the questions I asked you, or I won't give up looking for answers to those questions. So, are there any calculated security risks in our services, I'm asking you as a member of the Defence and Security Committee because of the participation of our soldiers in peace operations, otherwise, against which I'm not? I repeat, I didn't! Do they exist? It's enough to tell me -- state secret, military secret, and I won't ask another word, just to tell me if they exist. Another question I ask you to answer, and you are not, I am also asking you as a member of the Committee on Defence and Security – how can you say, let the Security Committee think about it, but in civilian control which, among other things, the Committee on Defence and Security of the Military Forces is also doing in our country, not to say the military, we co-operate, I think, so far, that this co-operation, although some may not expect the opposition MP to say something like this, in certain circumstances and in front of current legislation, is very correct, so I ask, how will the Security Committee, let's say, control the work of our people in Somalia or Uganda, who are preparing to come to Somalia to help the provisional government? Furthermore, I have a question, given that some colleagues have said about the very small and low salaries they have in the Serbian Army, I don't know about the Ministry of Defence, I know about your salary which is not great at all, I would even like that salary to be higher, it would mean that both the military budget and the military, and the government and the entire state have more money, so I would like to know, especially because of Mr. Srdjan's exposure to Kruševec, who here made us an honorary representative, Milunka Savik, so I would like to know how much pay these people have? Because going there still means taking a kind of risk, other than having proven courage. What are the salaries of the officers, the technicians or, as you say, one team – one doctor, two nurses and two administrative workers? Five people in total 40% of administrative workers, that's a little weird to me, but I'd like to know what the salaries are? I don't think that's supposed to be a secret to the public. I'd like your salaries to be as high as possible and that they live as normal in those countries where they represent our country. One more difficult question, Mr. Minister, you don't have to answer if you don't, do you know that before the "Freedom" factory accident, two months ago and something else, there were royal registration trucks that weren't registered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50291	Four minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the time for a representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Mico Rogovic. Time is available for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50292	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I really don't want to talk about the political aspects of these two topics, but some of the things that you were talking about today in the debate with certain MPs are obvious. It is not up to us from the opposition when this parliament will work, it is incomprehensible that today these two similar points of the agenda are separated, why it is so you can ask Mrs Comic, who is sitting behind you, so she can give you an explanation of the issue, and you are right because the day of Parliament's meeting is a terrible cost for the citizens of Serbia, the taxpayers, but it is not already our obligation. However, that this debate has a political background can be seen from the presentation of colleagues from the ruling coalition who spoke before me, as well as the seriousness of the speech of the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee and another colleague, out of six minutes, on this not so little important issue. In addition, some expert public comments suggest that this issue in Serbia is not sufficiently and media-accompanied, probably because there are not enough clear views on the issue within the ruling coalition. When we talk about a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other forces in the framework of multinational operations in 2011, as well as a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011, we need to ask ourselves why there is no proposal for a decision before the Assembly on the participation of members of other defence forces, in this particular case, the Ministry of the Interior? Well, that's what you quickly passed those legal acts at the end of 2009, and that's a question for the prime minister, as well as for the interior ministry representative sitting here to seriously consider it. Because if this Parliament can adopt a decision on the Annual Plan for the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, it really doesn't make any sense that the same thing does not apply to other forces, and in this case, specifically, to the Ministry of the Interior. I ask – why, then, would the government, based on your plan, make a decision on the participation of members of the Interior Ministry in multinational operations?- I'm sorry. It's a question for the prime minister, for the government, for the interior ministry's representatives, and I wouldn't hold on to it for long. Once again I say, in front of the SNS, without any ill intention, that I do not want to talk about the political context of this story, but my further exposure will be focused on the capacities of both the Serbian Army and the Ministry of the Interior, given a very delicate and large commitment. I would really agree with you, or with one of the speakers, that when we make a decision for these members to be sent to these operations, we all welcome it with applause. In light of the text on the Annual Use of the Army of Serbia and other forces, the work, for example, of police officers on the mission consists of consulting, overseeing the work and training of police officers of the National Police of Liberia and, in this case, Haiti. Further in your explanation, you say: 'To participate in multinational operations, members of the Ministry of Interior acquire new experiences and have the opportunity to acquire knowledge during the exercise of administrative activities in the application of the latest technologies and electronic business. "Well, is it possible that we send such members into peace operations? So much for the inconclusion of the people who wrote an explanation about the involvement of the MUP members in the peace operations. Totally one inconsistencies and inconsistencies that you have stated in the text of reasoning and therefore cannot follow that applause of all of us. Indeed, it doesn't make any sense that you cited as an explanation for participation in the multinational operations of the members of the MUP. To get new experience in Liberia and Haiti?- I'm sorry. For those of you who listen to the transmission and for all of you, the fact that you've made a mistake in these two things here. When it comes to capacity, we cannot not rely on part of the legacy of the Republic of Serbia, and because of the legacy of the SFRY. I have to say that there has been experience in these multinational operations since 50 and some years, so let's say, that participation in these operations, in two out of five countries, was indeed at a large level by our armed forces, the former SFRY, and that in one operation we had the highest contingent, and that in one, even, we had a leader, or general of the former JNA, who was the commander of the contingent. We received such an inheritance, I think of SFRY and Serbia as heir to the continuity of SFRY, that we provided services, but unfortunately in the previous period, we were also users of these services, as counterpart Sarovic said, from the parliamentary group. The experience gives little complicated relations regarding peace operations related to the Republic of Serbia. The engagement of our forces in peacekeeping operations as a function of building and preserving peace in the world has been defined, within the framework of three missions, in the Defence Strategy, as well as the Law on the Serbian Army, which Decemberly refers to the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. This is after 2004, after that law, the first example of the UN Security Council approval of the UN Council in addition to members of the Serbian Army being representatives of the interior ministry, and possibly the foreign ministry, possibly being able to therefore, as a UN peacekeeping mission. The controversy here is clarified on the basis of these two new participations of ours, we can say, the contingent, given the earlier participation of a smaller number of mostly military observers or sanity teams, who, compared to some other units of other genders and visions of the Serbian Army, can also be considered units, given that they are sanitary teams. Compared to 2010, Mr. Minister, when we adopted the Annual Plan and Decision on the participation of the Serbian Army and other forces, the deadline has now been moved. We did this at the end of June 2010, when individual mandates in certain countries expired, and now we work in February. As significant as this is probably, it also says that this topic is being considered at an emergency session. We cannot retroactively make decisions on the participation of our units in UN missions, since they are, in practice, either completed or in progress. Also, here should be said the fact that a mission has been completed last year, that they have earned all the commendation of the Sanite teams, as well as those currently in peace operations; they deserve the praise of our missions that existed in the period and earlier, in the last ten years in which the forces of the Serbian Army participated and later the forces of the MUP. What's problematic, what's still to be done, are the capacities we're participating in peace operations with. They are, as I said, as many speakers have said, at this time and in the previous years, in the capacities of the sanity teams and military observers. In the 2010 financial report, the participation in these operations cost about 201 million dinars, and now that figure is clearly higher, somewhere, about three and a half times, if I'm not mistaken, about 650 million dinars. You were obliged to point out why this was a situation. The situation is also due to the fact that there are now a number of people and equipment, even part of contigents in military terms in the water range, two infantry waters, so that's why. But it must not be hidden from the citizens of Serbia, nor from us, the fact that the UN in this area refunds 30 to 40% of the funds, and that in other peace operations there is no such refund. We have here planned two new operations in the current year, which require a large portion of the funds, and for whose participation we are, our country will not refund funds. What else is the problem when it comes to capacity? It's the fact that poor countries, Mr. Minister, in certain peace operations, are, indeed, partly and financing their regular armies, their ministries. How does that happen? For example, the weapons force of Pakistan or Uruguay, in one operation in Africa, has a situation in Asia to engage large infantry units, battalion rankings and more, and the automatic ability to engage equipment. You know that during the engagement of a larger contingent of the armed forces of a particular country, there is a refund in the greater amount of these funds and our peacemakers know, say, that Uruguay has charged 100 trucks in that situation in Kinshasa, and it has been effectively used, both during the day and during the entire peace mission, ten of their trucks, and they have dragged them into the territory, the crisis hotspot, and part of the technique that has become obsolete, but in principle the UN is refunding the truck on a daily level of about a hundred dollars. You can calculate how much the Uruguay Defense Department, as well as their armed forces, has earned during that period. The capacity and the capacity issue of our Serbia Army, especially the Ministry of the Interior, and in the case of larger contingents... (President: Time used, 12 minutes. Thank you, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50293	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50294	Thank you. Given that several questions have been raised that I think should be answered, first of all, I would like to say that in the Serbian Army records at the moment, at the moment when it is still in the process of professionalisation, a number of soldiers training for professional soldiers, we have about 5,000 members of the Army who are at the base, who volunteered to participate in peacekeeping missions, so that's not a problem. On the contrary, it is imperative. It's true that one part of it is imperative and the pay it gets, but I wouldn't underestimate military members, and I wouldn't take it as the only imperative. I think a soldier's uniform is something else. If they wanted to make money, they'd be doing some private business and wouldn't be officers and members of the army, as it is said here. Salaries aren't on the level I'd like them to be on. It depends on several parameters, from country to country, on the so-called risk coefficient, security, working conditions, climate conditions. They move from, the lowest salary for a professional member of the army, which is relatively new, is $1,050, and the highest salary is $3,800. That's what the pay in the country is for anyway. As you know, the law, which you voted in parliament, concerning the deployment of members of the military and other defence forces to peacekeeping missions, defined in Article 25, has defined which additional powers are given to those who opt to participate in peacekeeping missions. I stress that, no matter how much fear you've shown, members of the Serbian Army who are on Greek and French fleet ships will not be threatened by pirates. There's still no record of anyone hijacking a military ship. I expect it won't happen in the future either. That kind of fear is unwarranted and you can relax freely. As far as these other missions are concerned, I have already said in the opening statement that each mission and every military service in itself is extremely difficult. It can be a security hazard. People who work with guns are certainly under special stress. I must tell you that in Serbia, many more people die in car accidents than those who work with weapons, which suggests that these people have a self-awareness and a great responsibility both to themselves and to their colleagues, as well as to the work they do. Believe me, there's no reason to talk about these people in parliament that way. We exercise civil and democratic control in the given conditions and in the way other parliaments in the world do. If you have any idea that a delegation of parliament is visiting one of our peacekeeping missions, you're welcome. Of course, the costs will be borne by you as parliament, but we will arrange a visit to you in any of our peacekeeping missions, whether it be Congo, Cyprus or other peace missions, so you will be able to see on the ground what our people who are there do. I stress, you're welcome. I would like you to be loud and clear in parliament and to seek the means to travel on one such road. It's not easy that way, but you can also see it on the spot to do civilian and democratic control. It's not an unknown thing in the world. Lands that are rich and have resources do so relatively often. Ministers visit their soldiers all over the world. I had an idea to tour our mission in Chad this year, but it costs tens of thousands of euros, which is roughly worth, at the level of a jeep's driveway that the Serbian Army is using. I was truly sorry to spend the money worth a jeep for the trip. But I can see that there is great interest in you, sir, and that you want to spend these resources in an adequate way. I say, you're welcome and you'll have free food there, so you just need a way to solve and, eventually, the diaries you'd get. On the other hand, I heard more trucks got into Chuck and came out of Chuck. It happens every day, don't worry. If you have any knowledge of security issues, report it to the police. That'll have to be handled by the police as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50295	I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PARTICIPATION OF A SERVANT IN MULTIINATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2011. You have received a motion for a decision made by the Government. You've received a report from the Defence and Security Committee. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates per parliamentary group is the following, and this is the following: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for the word, and with the order of the MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4), the submission of the application for the word shall continue until the search is opened, which shall be immediately followed. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda, the following MPs will be: MP Konstantin Arsenović, MEP Sasa Dujovic, MP of the SPS-JS; MP Mico Rogovic, MP for Serbia; MP Zeljko Tomic, MEP of the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica; MP Zoran Ostojic, MP of the LDP group; MP Vlajko Senic, MEP of the G17 Plus; MP Natasa Jovanovic, MP of the SRS and National MP of Konstantin Selfalov, MP of the ZES Group. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does proposal representative Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, want a word? (Yes) Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50296	Based on the proposal for a plan, which we discussed, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, made a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011, and operationalises this decision in one part of the proposal that we were just discussing, and this is practically receiving precise information on what is what is now certain as the participation of a member of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions. I mentioned earlier that there could also be something in the plan of use that would not be realized, depending on several factors, including shutting down the mission itself, as happened in Chad in one of the areas where we were or, let's say, a security situation that wasn't at the level required or lack of funds, etc. At this point, we have a decision that will allow members of the Serbian Army to participate in six peacekeeping missions. These are peacekeeping missions and are all defined as UN peacekeeping missions. The first is in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where nine members of Serbia's military and the defence ministry will go. The second mission is the Republic of Liberia, where, as you know, besides police officers, we have four members of the Serbian Army who are there and will restore their presence. Also, the third peacekeeping mission, where we are otherwise present, is Côte d'Ivoire, where we have three representatives of our army, then Lebanon - six, the Republic of Cyprus - seven and in the Middle East, where three observers will go to function and our members in Lebanon. Apropo insinuations that we are leaving exclusively and only in Muslim countries, if you just do a little bit of geography and if you look at it, you will see that it is simply not true, but it is not our choice whether we go to countries that are Muslim or Christian or whatever, we simply go to those countries where the UN is seeking help from UN members, including Serbia. All these missions, except for a mission in the Middle East, are already familiar. We've been taking part in them for years now, and I think we've really justified the trust, what was said here, and that's one mission that's been completed and that was the largest, extremely demanding, given that we haven't had a long, long, long, suddenly big team in one place, that happened in Chad. At first we were with the Norwegian contingent, later on on our own. We have shown that we have the capacity to be independent in such conditions, which is something that is for respect and respect, because that's how we raise our capacities in our country. When we talk about these capacities and equipment, there are certain standards that must be respected and that we, of course, want to respect, all the members who leave are getting the appropriate equipment that is required for that level of security in those areas where logistics is concerned. Unfortunately, we don't have any contingents that big that we can cover for ourselves. As you can see, our biggest mission will be with nine representatives, and that's still quite modest in terms of logistics needs, so that we can organize a logistics life. Here, that's short. This is, more specifically, the realization of that plan that we were just discussing, with the possibility, as I said, that since the second half of March, we will be back in parliament with the addition of a Decision on participation in some of the EU missions already offered under the previous proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50297	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word, so Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50298	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, the first thing that comes to mind is that it would be much smarter if these colleagues who applauded yesterday had a majority, because this is obviously one point and this should take a while, not to waste neither the electricity nor the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50299	Members of the Parliament, I ask you, in the application of the Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 27 and 106, which obliges you to speak about the agenda and, of course, open to remarks, not to take care of the order well enough, and without repeating the explanation that I consider this item of the agenda to be such that what strict application of Article 106(1) does not mean, I ask you, however, to exempt you from the debate of the subject which, but cannot be considered, in the broadest sense, in part of the agenda, please. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50300	Let me inform you, Vice President, as we have received notice of the course of this session. When we got points 3 and 4, I admit that maybe I didn't read that phone carefully, it looked like the same point was repeated twice. I was just saying that this could have been one point, not to waste any time. If it hurt you so much, and if I hurt the Rules of Procedure so much, I apologize to you and to my people, and to the citizens who are watching this. (Chairman: Sustained. Here you go. I'm just saying, there wasn't a lot of them yesterday. If it was most, this would be, as normally, one point. It is obvious that at this previous point, the minister has listed where our army will go, and that is the current item of the agenda, we have practically finished it in the past. Mr. Minister, I have to give you one piece of information, that on January 21st, fortunately or unfortunately some citizens, I've probably celebrated for some, and unfortunately some, ten years that I am a joint MP. In all this time, Mr. Minister, for all ten years I have never once taken an official vehicle, nor traveled anywhere about the cost of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government or any state authority. I am neither boasting nor proud nor anything else, I would like to say as just one fact, except in 2003 I was mixed in the group, which was composed of MPs from all MPs, who went to KIM. After they left Belgrade, I went, Mr. Minister, from Cacka by my car and was down for two days. You don't think, I guess, either of you or I don't know who, because you've paid me a few respects for some diaries, as I will, that I look like a man who might be on some aircraft carrier, with those headphones and those flags to turn planes, like some ministers, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50301	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50302	I didn't ask you to spend Parliament's money. It's just that I've drawn your attention that if you want to control the military as parliamentary control, you have to make an effort to get to the place where the controls are being carried out. If you think we're paying you the cost so you can tell here that you've never spent the money of parliament and you're spending the money of the Ministry of Defense, it's not natural. Therefore, you are invited to come to whatever parliamentary control, civil, democratic control of the Serbian Army, wherever it is. As you come, will you come to the car, the official, private, the plane, whatever, it's less important. Now, I'm telling you honestly, I can see that there is such an interest in this, and I would like you to be part of some delegation of parliament that will visit ours, say, in the Congo. That is indeed a fair offer. I don't see what you'd be talking about here right now if you'd never used an official vehicle, because that official vehicle isn't meant for off-the-book stuff, and these are strictly official things, and I'm sure the Serbian Army, which is there on the ground, would be happy for you in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50303	Natasa Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word. After that, MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50304	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to ensure that Serbian citizens who did not follow the assembly's transmission in the morning receive a basic idea of what we are discussing with you here today, thinking that we are establishing a better strategy for Serbia's Army, for our country's security, for helping our country's compatriots in the endangered areas or for eventually your intention, Mr. Minister, to require, on the basis of Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, that, to the extent to which the Chernomyrd-Ahtisari Agreement or Anek of that agreement implies, to direct our military forces to KIM, and especially in the light of new developments and reports learned by the whole world and the resolution adopted in the Council of Europe, proposed by Dick Tatti, on the Monstroous crimes committed by the Cypriot villains and terrorists over our people, then, when the whole world and in particular, when we have not been able to do this matter in our own way, in terms, and in terms, and in terms of our own terms, and in terms, and in terms, and in terms, the need, the need of the need of our ownness, that we, that we, and our ownness, and our ownness, and our ownness, and our people, and our people, and our ownness, and our people, and our interests, and our people, and our people, and our people, and our people. An ordinary resident, a Serbian citizen, a military homeless man, the jobless man, the one who remembered and remembered the glorious times of our Serb army, is thinking – why does the Serbian Parliament have to discuss this today and why does the state of Serbia decide on this? You will say so, and Mrs Tanja Miscevic said yesterday on the Committee on Defence and Security, that this is the obligation of the state of Serbia to Chapter VII and VIII of the UN Charter. But, Mr. Minister, the obligation was all of them, but, fortunately, and it is said, through needle ears, we provided in September of last year for the KIM Resolution to pass. And this second one, which has changed the text message of Boris Tadic, which he sent to Minister Jeremic, is probably telling you enough, Mr Minister, that what has been the UN General Assembly's resolution since 1946 is no longer applicable to this day. You are a man who, because of your work and because of your resources, follow all new events on the map of the world. So you see, Mr. Minister, since you made one such statement (if I have a later time, I'll quote it) you've roughly called on the famous tradition of JNA and the fact that, as a state, we, the SFRY, have sent our peacemakers on certain missions. Now tell me today, Mr. Minister, since these peacemakers are going to the countries of Central and South Africa, the countries of the Middle East, etc., is the same policy of this country now towards the friendly and so-called Unclassified countries, today, and since the DOS is in power, and so are you, too, because you have started your political engagement as a member of the DOS after 5 October. Maybe it's the same as it used to be. In light of what is happening and what geopoliticals we need today to discuss where Serbia is. Serious statesmen, serious countries, no matter how much they are, and you mentioned that term today, and you said that 'our little Serbia is smaller', so where good luck is that on the Karlobag-Ogulin-Carlovac-Virovica line, that's right, and not how you guys go from above, and where good luck all together, no matter what parties we belong to, we fight for the unity of the Serbian people, we fight to preserve Serbia, to fight to strengthen it and strengthen it, then we wouldn't have to explain to the citizens of Serbia today, wherever they live, that our peacemakers go to the Democratic Republic of Congo, to Liberia, the coast of Côteveca. You said earlier, you were about to make a mockery of an MP, so a military ship is not threatened by any danger in the Gulf of Aden, and nothing will happen to them from pirates. Mr. Minister, I have nothing against your Hollywood and spectacular performances, like the one in the Mediterranean Sea and that you have that style of behavior. But this isn't Hollywood, and now that some kids are watching the Assembly transfer, they're there imagining Johnny Depp making some movies and having a different picture, and it's a serious thing. And the serious thing is that you said, in response to why we do it, you too, Mrs. Miscevic, and also Chief General Miloja Miletic's Chief of Staff, that these experiences, I now quote the general, are "invaluable, elders and staff are being trained to work in a modern international headquarters environment". Mr. Minister, this is what General Miletic said, as if he hadn't been a long time ago, and he was a good pitomatist and later an officer, and now he's in the post, as if he didn't even know what kind of Serbian army the Serbian mother produced. And you forget that because we were in the most difficult international headquarters environment, when it attacked us, so did counterpart Bojan Mladenovic and fellow Munjic and others, the greatest military force – and what is it that an officer and one soldier could not master in our fight during 78 days, in this evil NATO aggression, and you accepted as military minister, both Boris Tadic and all of you before, that they call it humanitarian intervention, which is now to be learned in some South African or Central African country, in the Middle East or anywhere? Please, don't underestimate our soldiers and our officers in such a way. You should tell us, we asked that on the Security Committee, not yesterday, Mrs. Miscevic, because you, of course, couldn't even answer that. Mr. Secretary will tell us. When the National Assembly adopted the Law on referral to multinational operations, we asked you nicely – why do we degrade acts of the Serb army and send them individually to certain contingents and groups? Here, answer me – will the rank of our captain as he is or the Major be respected there, or will he have to respect the calling of the instructor he has before him, in the composition of that contingent where he goes? We think that regardless of what you are calling for a UN resolution and, yesterday, your colleague state secretary, on the UN Charter, however, you need to ask yourself a little bit what the power ratio in that body is today, how the Security Council works, if he has his own permanent and non-permanent members, and that you are thinking a little bit as our friends and brothers from the Russian Federation. Because if you say to yourself that you have some ideology and that you have some vision, and that somehow you see Serbia in the future, and you see it wrong, because we don't belong in the EU, the SRS is, and here, we see that the growing number of Serbian citizens is against these European integrations, we don't belong in the criminal NATO pact, so why don't you look at it a little bit and see how the serious states are doing and how they're looking at today's consolidation of forces in the world? Obviously, the layman is also clear that the United States has been back for years, and in the late 1980s and early 1990s in this house was told by our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, who wanted, above all, to dominate the military. And through military domination, which they have managed, unfortunately, to achieve also the occupation of our southern province and the geostrategic goals they have in the Balkans, of course that they will exploit economically everything that is available to them, to suppress, to change regimes. And now Mr. Gaddafi is probably not the same for you in the light of these events you're looking at these days, because you're following American democracy and their dictatorship that they're carrying out in the world, as it was in those years whose glorious days of JNA you're calling on. Answer that question. Or are you going to follow this hypocrisis of Western European countries that want to fight everyone who isn't under their boots or under their patronage, or are you going to fight for the sovereignty of the country? You said that this strengthens not only our defence capacities, but also our country's foreign policy capacities. Why don't you use, if you already have foreign policy capacities, and only by making it loud and clear to the countries that are your political mentors, which are EU members, to say what you think, and above all about what happened in Kosovo and Metohija and Marty's resolution, what are we going to talk about on Thursday, and simply interrupt that project? No, it doesn't matter to you at all, you want to go to Europe, even if Serbia is down to Belgrade's pasture! No one is naive today, and thank God, especially not our Russian friends that they don't know how it happens in both the UN and the Security Council. As I said, since the United States has its military agenda for years ago, and through it to achieve both economics, the SRS and I really feel that we must raise morale and raise awareness for the citizens of Serbia and, above all, our children and youth, in a serious way, through these congregation debates. Finally, there is also a group of parents, who are growing in Serbia, who are asking for the subject of 'patriotism' to be introduced into our primary schools, to tell them that in the future every country that wants to strengthen military, economic and other ways, to restore its security, stability, national pride and dignity, should resist the pressures and blackmails of America and Western forces. It's the only way we can have. Because if that's true, and that's how all the analysts in the world evaluate today, that Russia in the future will be the main pillar that will cover absolutely all areas, from military to economic, through any other co-operation, cultural, etc., then it's the right path to the SRS. After all, you have also seen through research involving someone else that 90% of the electoral body that votes for the SRS and our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, is unconditional for co-operation with the Russian Federation. And we're proud of that, because we know it's Serbia's future. Besides, you will also see on March 23rd the message of the Russian prime minister, former president, Mr Vladimir Putin. I would be, like any Serbian radical, the happiest that he, although it may not be the usual for us, is the prime minister, but such a powerful statesman and man who set up and raised the country that was hugging and brought from his knees what she is today, turns here in parliament. Mr. Sutanovac, as far as all these countries I've counted are concerned, don't think that these safety risk assessments for the people you refer to there are not important. First of all, I would like to express my protest as a member of the Defence and Security Committee for not getting an assessment of such risks. Why was that a problem for you to tell us, or under the designation strictly confidential, that we could do so as signatories of that obligation to read? Like this, we need to think about what's going to happen to them there. And I'm just going to go back to this hypocrisis of Western democracies that are now conducting all of this and in countries that are extremely friendly to us, and they're creating crisis hotspots, and what happens this morning and these days in Libya, here I'm quoting someone who's a war reporter from a country that's not friendly to Serbia, the Independent magazine reporter from Britain, it doesn't matter what his name is, which he said in 2006, it's one of the first, you know that and you and Mr. Micevic, the EU mission they sent to one such country, so they sent her to Lebanon, as he said, in the Lebanese swamp, in that article, not to keep the peace, but to fill the buffer zone, and defend Israel that has a conflict with Hezbollah. Therefore, they did not go there as some peacemakers, as they do not go to all these countries, which my fellow Serbian radicals have previously noticed well, and ours, God forbid it happens, people can be there, as these NATO men would say, collateral damage. You know, all of these countries, which you've decided and the people you're pointing at, you've defined as going there for a certain period, to be in the so-called. In peace missions, they are in much greater danger than when we, Mr. Minister, passed the law here. Here, be honest and tell me what happened on Côte d'Ivoire a few months ago. All the world's media and ours reported every day that almost everything was on the verge of genocide. What was going on in Liberia, too? What happens now in Lebanon and in all other key areas and hotspots? I also told you when you first talked about it and when the first peacemakers were referred, when it came to Chad. So both Chad and Darfur and all those crisis areas couldn't, their authorities couldn't count how many people were killed a few years ago in 2007. Do you then think in this context, you said it was a human mission, about humanity in the work of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? How does the state help them? How did you and what mechanisms were you trying to protect the state of Serbia? How is it possible, then, if your intentions are sincere to defend our country's territorial integrity, which is your constitutional obligation and all of us, that the UN Resolution, through messages that Tadic sends, is changing and that Serbia has not been discussing the situation in Kosovo and Metohija for several months now and what should we do further? But it is fortunate that, and I tell the citizens of Serbia and all those who are truly humiliated today and who may have a keen awareness that in such a way we should all defend our country together, there is one party in this assembly, which is SRS – Dr Vojislav Seselj, who will never give up on this patriotic path and on the defence of state, vital and national interests. Mr. Minister, you laugh very often, but I don't mind that when we say that NATO is a pact and allies of the aggressor military alliance and the EU countries are extremely hostile towards our country. You, as defence minister, still had to work somewhere, well, even if it was a grain of wheat conscience, to ask yourself when it comes to the Hague tribunal, because it ended there almost the entire political and military summit of our country. Our generals, our officers received from that quasi-dude, which was established without a decision by the General Assembly, but by a UN Security Council decision, over a thousand years in prison, so the most dramatic punishments, and during that time, this 'drunk group', that's how a colleague, Stevanovic, received for the murder of over 100 Serbs, only 80 years in prison. Well, then you had to ask yourself, since you're a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you've defined yourself as having unspeakable co-operation with this so-called The Hague tribunal, how is it possible that one man, a politician, who had this vision and all these ideas, and all of what today, unfortunately, is being realized in the world, and these peoples and their countries suffer because he wants America to subdue them, to be robbed and dominated by military and economics, etc., that our President Vojislav Seselj, here, will be the day after eight years of volunteering in the dungeon of The Hague, and his trial is not yet completed? And not only is it not over, Mr. Sutanovac, but since this morning, since we've been talking about this issue here, he's had a trial and tonight the citizens of Serbia will be able to follow it in a delayed transfer to the second RTS programme, secondly being tried for the so-called contempt of the court. This morning, I'm going to finish, give you a book. It may seem to you, since it is the satir of our prominent publicist and journalist Predrag Popovic, and the book is about Alexander Vukic and it is called "The History of a Disease", it is a serious matter and it is a serious disease... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I will conclude with the conclusion, here, that the NATO Pact and the EU are the creators of The Hague tribunal, the enemies of the Serb people, and I will present to you a book that today was the trial and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow for our president, that he does not respect the court that kills Serbs, and it is called "Glupson of Manitoba Bruce McFarlen" and I will be pleased to give it to you, to see what kind of villains he is doing. The one who came from Manitoba is nothing different than some other who came from other parts of the world to receive huge wages, to judge by international law that they invented, which is not respected... (President: twenty-one minutes. And, Mr. Sutanovac, it is high time to turn to the patriotic consciousness that the Serbian people had inside them, only you still have to wake up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50305	Thank you. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50306	I must admit that this kind of patriotic consciousness that you have, I don't respect, nor do I intend to ever acquire it. Thanks to your patriotic consciousness, we have the Kumanski Agreement, the military left Kosovo and Metohija, the military had to enter Serbia for 25 km, thanks to this very type of patriotism, after which the government of Zoran Djindjic managed to regain control of the bar on those territories in this part of Serbia. On the other hand, I completely understand you and your MP group that has an aversion to the UN, simply, at a time when you were in power, we were even expelled from the UN. It's something that's relevant, and that's why you don't have a relationship with peace missions. It's my fault, I see I haven't given my colleagues enough information, but I don't mind telling you now. So, on the matter of reputation of the Russian Federation and what they're doing, let's say, the Russian army is engaged at this point in Chad, we ended up a mission in Chad, in Sudan, in the Côte d'Ivoire, where we are present, in Liberia, where we will also be present, in the Congo, where we are also present. Then, they were engaged in the Western Sahara, Haiti, where our police, in the Middle East, East Timor, etc., etc. When you refer to information concerning the Russian army, you must know that we are in very intimate relations and that we are together in a large number of countries on a peace mission. Also, you should know that the Russian Federation is talking to the EU about the possibility of engagements of their military effects together with the EU, and there is also a famous technical arrangement that the Russian Federation has with NATO, related to engagement in Afghanistan. It's something that's generally known and it's simply a fact. We are often willing to compare our army with other armies. I must tell you that, as no minister in the last 20 and over years, I have had the opportunity to speak to a large number of defence ministers around the world, I expect to have the opportunity to speak to the Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation this year, with almost all the most important chiefs of general staff of the army around the world, from Chinese, Russian, American and Brazilian, so I have one experience that is now almost four years old. I'll just tell you that there are several ministers in Europe who have been in office longer than I am, and that's the defence minister from Turkey, then Montenegro, and I think he's from Estonia. I'm still in the first five youngest defence ministers, so I'm still able to study and study. So what you're saying is simply one party for the people, but far from being true. The Serbian army has a tradition that is contained in our past. The Serbian army, while you were in power, was unfortunately in the positions of the lowest respect and respect, both in the world and among its citizens. Serbia's Army was running away so much in the time that you... And the army of Serbia. Today, unlike that time, we have three times more registered to serve the military service voluntarily than we had at the time when they had to serve under you. So when we talk about the Serbian Army, patriotism, what's done and what's done is really hard to talk about, you and I talk about these results. I fully understand that you have a problem with The Hague tribunal, but I will remind you that just at the time of your government, in the 1990s, your coalition delivered Drazen Erdemovic as the first man to be deported from Serbia to the UN tribunal. At the time you were looking forward to his accident, you were caught up with the same fate today. I'm sorry you planned this, but it just had to be that way, and obviously you gave yourself support, at the very beginning, for some things. So, whatever you're putting on our burden, believe me, it's all something that you obviously have in some dreams like a guilty conscience, so it's easier for you to get rid of that guilty conscience. But it's simply not true and it's not facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50307	National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Right on the line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50308	I'll start at the end, Mr. Sutanovac. When you mention what it was like, you are a participant, along with Dossovsky, led by Zoran Djindjic, in writing the indictment against Prof. Vojislav Seselj. That's why when she was written, he voluntarily went to The Hague. He was sent with more than 100,000 Belgrade citizens, who escorted him to the Surcin airport. At least a million of them will meet him when he returns to the country in a few months as a winner over that court. After all, Carla Del Ponte wrote in her book that Djindjic himself said: ''Take Seselj and do not return him! "But Vojislav Seselj will come back, and as the citizens say, and as they ran on Saturday at the Sava Center, "Seselj is coming," you don't worry about it. As for the military Kumanovo Agreement, the Chernomidin-Ahtisari Agreement, don't... already, Mr Sutanovac, only the Serbian Radical Party voted against him. You know that, you were an MP after October 5th, you had with us these clashes and duels from the assembly pay phone. Simply, anyone who then followed and transferred the Assembly knows, we were out of the Government of the Republic of Serbia because of that, we were against the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija and you can never put it on the soul and on the burden of the SRS. As for the withdrawal from the so-called Homeland Security Zone, that happened thanks to Nebojsa Covic. You remember, Mr. Sutanovac, a session of the Serbian Parliament, when you were a national MP by 2003, when we shot down Doss's regime, that we had then sharply criticised such a policy and that we were telling you, warned you, when we were bringing one, so no one was against all MPs in the assembly, remembers that, and Mrs. Comic, Resolution and Declaration regarding KIM, because whether we were in power or opposition... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Our national consciousness is important. We told you this was going to happen, and you, because you're ruling America and NATO's pact, Serbia has such an unfavourable position. And I don't... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50309	Thank you. Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50310	If I wanted to talk about the character and the work of Vojislav Seselj, I would tell you that in the First Gulf War, with the members of my party, he went to the American Embassy and asked him to volunteer to fight Iraq, which is a fact. There are videos, of course. But that's not my point. My theme is something else you're talking about, which isn't true. The land's security zone was formed by the Kumanski Agreement in 1999. Entry, or return, Serbia's armies and security forces, the police in the area happened in 2001, just at the time of Covic, what he was, and Zoran Djindjic, what he was. You couldn't criticize us for leaving, because we went back to what's ours, and you left us this area where, in November 2000, we had a riot of various terrorists, we had a lot of problems. So you're replacing the thesis, with the idea that MPs may not remember it, but believe me, it's the only truth and everything else you're saying, simply, you're twisting the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50311	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50312	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike my predecessors, I will stick to the fourth point today. A proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011. Here in the proposal ahead of us are six peace operations in which our armed forces, i.e. Army members to take part. What makes me particularly happy is that we had a chance a few days ago, or a week or two ago, to see the equipment and training of our army members in multinational operations at the mouth. I must confess, as a former soldier and as someone who had the opportunity to be equipped in a certain way, that I was fascinated and that I proudly brought my son to see how boys were equipped and trained to do what their priority is to try to contribute to peace and stability in the world. Of course, the safety of these guys or these soldiers, our professionals, will always be asked as a question. However, all those who know what a soldier and a military craft are, know that the danger is the first and basic thing of a military craft, whether it is participation in peacekeeping operations, humanitarian operations, or that it is the defence of its hearth, i.e. your country. That job, guys. The soldiers work professionally, and that's why we've passed a few more laws here, introduced military professionalization, and that's why it became their primary task. I'd like to throw a special accent on the Serbian Army's equipment today. She's on one decent level compared to the world's standards. Of course, the pursuit of the Ministry of Defence, which makes every day an increasing effort to make this equipment even better, even bigger, monitors some of our living standards, and we all depend on something called the economy, possibly our development society. Technological equipment is in the upward path, as you can practically say. But we are far behind on technologically developed countries, especially in the area of defence, i.e. to say military term, response equipment and in some specific situations. That's why we're in trouble today. We can't even buy it, because it's just society in trouble and the state itself. We don't have enough money to buy modern technological achievements when it comes to military craft. Serbia's army. By participating in peacekeeping missions, we will gain a huge credibility in technologically equipped countries, contribute to a major crackdown on stereotypes, when it comes to the Serbian Army, that it is still some people who have done something other than defend or bring peace in some places. The task isn't easy at all. It is a good step to what the Ministry of Defence has taken, and it is to begin with these peacekeeping missions to send professional teams, medical teams, qualified officers, officers who are on observation missions, which in any case contributes in many ways to the acquisition of great experience and the creation of something called a good image in the world after, let's say, slightly, because it has created bad images of our people and of the army itself. This is where my predecessors set up a lot of things like some kind of problem, something like that. However, we must draw attention to the fact that in many countries where peace missions are being conducted today, participation is being taken by countries that have been blood enemies in the near past, as they would call them peoplely, so we have an example that the Germans and the French are somewhere together in peace missions and bring peace to some country, to some people. So are the Germans and the Poles, and so are many others. It's up to us to forget, i.e. to make sure that the better we go out to meet integrations, the more we carry out our task, and the task of the Serbian Army is incomparable. It is good that the army, with the great tradition of a Serb soldier, has imposed itself as someone who, in addition to diplomacy and everything else, and the Serbian government, is ahead of it to bring well-being and contribute to a good image. The professional army can help peace in any part of the world, so it can be a great and good guarantee of the stability and peace itself in Serbia. With all this said, I just want to point out that we will support this decision, too, that we will support all possible future decisions, which, as the minister announced, may be ahead of us in March, and we believe that our soldiers will do to the Serb soldier what is their task, which is to bring peace somewhere in the world. For now in these six countries, in these six missions, and hopefully in greater scale and in safer ports, we introduce peace into some nations that are now divided. With that in mind, I will repeat again, in the voting day, the SPS-JS Parliament Club and I will personally support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50313	Six minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50314	The Honorable President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must mention at first that in parliamentary practice, at least in the last few years, it has not happened that these two complementary points of the agenda are in session without being joined together, as far as the debate is concerned, but that we have had conflicting examples in practice, that the incompatible points have been combined, but, behold, the ruling coalition couldn't yesterday provide a quorum to ensure that natural connect points today don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50315	Please take care of Article 106(1). The scope of the application in order to ensure and ensure order and facilitate debate, a member who obliges me to remind you of the agenda, does not reach your comments that do not belong in this discussion. Please leave it out of your debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50316	Thank you. Mr. Minister said today, both for the previous agenda point and for this one, that things were precisely defined. Well, they're not, Mr. Minister. You have also heard a few remarks from my predecessors, and you will hear some little less important things and some little more important things, that in fact a lot is not precisely defined in this draft decision and in this plan for 2011, as regards the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations this year. Here's a few examples. The annual plan does not specify the length of the mandate for missions untso in the Middle East and UNOCI in the Côte d'Ivoire. Well, there's something very interesting. The plan states (quote) ''... to prevent the restoration of conflicts between the Greek Cypriots and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey. ''Be careful of the formulation. Legally speaking, it can't be about Greek Cypriots, it can be about the regular army of the Republic of Cyprus, which, I will remind you, is an EU member and this kind of clumsyness can't be fooled by what you said was precisely defined. If it is precisely defined that Cyprus has no regular army of the state of Cyprus, but some Greek Cypriot armies, then I think you're in trouble and that I'm an official of the state of Cyprus, I would react. Furthermore, the Annual Plan lists nine different missions involving members of the Serbian Army, while the decision approves participation in six missions. Why the participation of other missions foreseen by this annual plan, as well as missions in Somalia, euthm and eunaufor and engagements in the UN stand-by arrangement, is not immediately approved. There is a possibility that the reason for such a decision is the fact that the members of the Serbian Army have not participated in these missions so far, but the fact appears that the members of the military have not participated in the mission untso in the Middle East, and at this point they are asked for approval of participation. Today, it was about jeopardising the security of members of the Serbian Army in missions, especially in the Congo and Côte d'Ivoire. The annual plan itself says that there are problems in these countries, that the situation in the Côte d'Ivoire is unstable, (quote)" but without the elements of the threat to the security of employed members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. "And what do you guarantee? Why do I ask you that? Just a month ago, three members of the UN mission were wounded in conflicts in the Côte d'Ivoire. When you speak affirmatively of these missions, I completely understand and that is normal, you must point to certain dangers. That it is an unstable situation, that is one thing, and that there are concrete incidents where members of the UN mission have been injured, you must also put that into consideration by parliament and the public of Serbia. The public must know that there is a direct danger. Under whose contingents will they be members of the Serbian Army? Only missions in Lebanon and Cyprus are listed as being engaged within the framework of the Spanish or Slovak contingent, for the other missions this information is not listed. It's not defined exactly again. In Lebanon we send an engineering demining team, in a situation where in Serbia we still have a large number of lagging bombs and mines from previous wars. You say that number, so I don't say, it's a few thousand, right? You say you care about security in the world, and do you care about security in Serbia? Who's going to mine those mines? I'm convinced it costs less than demining the ground in Lebanon. Why does the Annual Plan not specify the financial resources needed for each mission in particular? We'd like to know what it looks like and how you plan it. Why is the annual plan not adopted before the budget is adopted, but the funds are sought afterwards? It is that they are included in the budget for this year earlier, but, anyway, it's done backwards. In theory, this motion for a decision may not go away, and what about the money in the budget? Of course, there's somewhere to spend, but it can theoretically turn out to be very unserious. It is another proof that the government is above parliament, that it can put whatever it wants into the budget and whatever it wants, in the wrong order. Anyway, expenses are also for criticism. It's more than five million euros. Recently, your secretary of state, Mrs. Miscevic, said in an interview here, that about 40 soldiers were currently deployed on various missions. You're saying it's going to increase a little bit. Well, more than five million euros, on average, for 60 people in one year, is a little much?- I'm sorry. If we are talking about saving and rationalising, this Parliament has joined this. The presidency, we heard Boris Tadic joined it. The government of the Republic of Serbia, you know it best, at least, says it is taking certain steps in that direction. And where is it being saved, here, in terms of peace missions? Does it have to be, exactly, that price, more than five million euros, is not a small sum. Savings and rationalization in this matter, absolutely no, these are enormous figures for a realistically small number of people. I haven't said for a moment that we shouldn't exist on peacekeeping missions, but that it's rational and that it's much, much, more precisely defined. Article 17. The law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations provides that the government adopts the Annual Plan Implementation Report and submits it to the National Assembly at the end of the financial year. It would be good if you had the will and the strength to do so, to have parliament get a report on this, but with the possibility of discussing it, as we are now discussing the motion for a decision, to see at the end of the year the report, but not to receive it from the MPs in the envelope, but to discuss it at the plenary session. So let's see what's been spent, how it's been spent, if that security has been at a very high level, etc., let's see if the job you've done has been a pain in the ass, so that in the future we can identify ourselves, and maybe look more gently at what you're doing. What is particularly important today is the statement by your State Secretary, Mrs Miscevic, that Serbia will sign an agreement on participation in EU civilian and military missions in the second half of March. On this occasion, she pointed out that we (quote) 'in this case, have taken a proactive approach', i.e. we ourselves have offered to participate in peace-keeping missions and civilian missions that the EU is building, which means that we ourselves accept a European standard that is uniform or more uniform for all European countries, whether they are within the EU or not. It is logical to ask a question about an EU mission on our territory, which is Eulex. Today there were words about it, one MP said it was good for the Serbian Army to be in Kosovo, at least through an EU mission such as Eulex. I believe that this is a very hypocritical demagogy, because theoretically, only theoretically, and I am convinced that this will never happen in practice, but you allow the theory that a Serb soldier in someone's contingent would come to Kosovo, and imagine, theoretically, riots, in Zubin Potok, in Zvecan, in Kosovo Mitrovica, which, for example, would theoretically challenge Serbs and have to react, in a certain way, to the EU Mission, Eulexa, where would the Serbs be?- I'm sorry. What would happen then? I only speak theoretically. I'm sure it'll never happen, but you've allowed that theory with your own behavior. A congregation decision on Serbia's military neutrality has been mentioned several times today. I must remind him, I am sorry, Mrs Comic has just come out, she has warned one MP that she has not expressed himself precisely, Maltene, criticised him for baptizing this decision as a 'declaration of military neutrality', so as much as she has been able to correct the MP, I would really well recommend her to correct it at some forum of her party, DS, let's say, on the General Committee, and her own president who is also calling that assembly decision, and Mr Sutanovac, we saw in the videos, was a direct witness when Tadic said that "the Serbian Parliament's 'declaration of military neutrality' would not be changed during the current government' mandate," and that "Serbia will not change its status in relation to NATO anymore, regardless of what some countries in the region are already close to membership in that alliance". So much for precision, again, about precise formulations. The defence minister, Mr Sutanovac, attended the promotion of Serbia's Army Monograph, and on that occasion he said, and I am talking about a meeting scheduled for June, the exact date will be given to the minister himself soon, that representatives of the NATO Pact will be present in large numbers, and that the event, in addition to the military aspect, will have a tourist component in Serbia's promotion and announced a series of activities in the promotion of Belgrade and the country's tourist offer. You said, Mr. Minister, I would not laugh in your place, believe me (quote) – "With the tourist organisations of Belgrade and Serbia, we will make sure that participants get all the information together about Serbia and Belgrade and that we motivate them not to come to Serbia only through military co-operation, but also as tourists. "What tourist destinations have you chosen, Mr. Sutanovac, and what might you think? Would you mind thinking of a beautiful ravine, "Gradice ravine"? Could the representatives of the NATO Pact go there or are you questioning their conscience? Could you maybe visit Varvarin, Alexinac, Dragish Misovic Hospital in Belgrade? I just don't know. I can't go any further. It's very hypocritical to me. What tourist destinations do you recommend? It's a beautiful "Gradice ravine." It's just that there's still cry from the dead of the NATO Pact in that ravine, Mr. Sutanovac. For the end, I want to say something. First of all, I'd like to use one of these to help myself. There are various forms of manipulation and delusion. Here's one harmless, let's say, the whole world still thinks that one sentence of play it again, Sam, is said in the film "Casablanca," and that sentence is never said there. Very interesting, and the whole world thinks it is. Therefore, the whole world has been led astray, harmlessly. And here's something that's less harmless and that you used in the last debate on the professionalization of the military, when we were having such a hard and gallant discussion, when you said, and it's still going to be a folk: 'The Serb goes into the soldiers! ''Es, out of ignorance, whether it's delusion or manipulation, I must offer you one testimony of Borisla Mihajlovic Mihiz, who says in his 'Autobiography of others': 'I remember how famous, to every fellow countryman known to verse, ''The Serbian goes into soldiers'', has experienced the return of fate. Everyone thinks it's the verse and song from which it is, that it elevates the readiness of the Serb army's warriors to fight in the uprisings and the liberating wars of their country. And rarely does anyone know that it is not so, and that the verse of the Border Song is also the title and the grandeur of the Krajina border guards, in the service of the Austrian Empire. Its author is Vasa Zivkovic, and the key verse of the drums in the alien wartime: "When the brightest emperor wishes, the border guard jumps to his death." From the song of soldiering and loyalty to the Emperor of Vienna, he took time and duration of the initial verse and became a patriotic war slogan. There's a lot going on and it's happening with lyrics, not just with people. "And to whom, Caesar, you, Mr. Sutanovac, lead Serbia into your arms, remains to be seen. But everyone in Serbia knows that you are actively working to get Serbia into the NATO Pact, and we all also know that the vast majority of citizens, fortunately, are against it. Give me that referendum! I asked you last time, you didn't precisely define your answer – are you NATO lobbyist, and we all know that it is, and that is the question and expect protests in June. They're not people for the NATO Pact, and they won't welcome those who bombed us in 1999. I must personally say that I will participate in every protest directed against the NATO Pact. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50317	National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50318	Thank you, President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a decision to make to send our soldiers into six peace operations. If I understand correctly, we're already in five. Only the UN Peace Operation in the Middle East is new. We have a tradition here, we participated twice, our soldiers along with others, decades ago. Nothing can be disputed when we're already involved in these operations. It is good to sign a contract with the EU on participation in EU Armed Forces operations, defence forces. It is good that we are also working with the UN because we are a member of the UN, and being a member also implies some obligations and responsibilities. That's why we're making a decision, that's why. The plan also entered the involvement of soldiers on stand by for the purposes of the UN when requested. All of this will show that our armed forces will be able, or our military and police, in this standardisation, according to NATO standards to respond to what the modern world requires and will show some solidarity and responsibility to the accidents of others, as others have shown solidarity to accidents in this space and sent troops to prevent or stop what was happening. It is beautiful and we welcome that our country, our forces contribute to world peace and stability. It's one big turn from a time of fifteen years ago when we also contributed, but not to world peace and stability, but to something quite the opposite. This decision concerns a total of 29 soldiers. We think it's small for what our army can do, for what is our tradition and, I guess, for what there is a mood among professionals. Because if I understand Mr. Minister, in training, in applying and preparing to stand by there are about 5,000 people who are ready, or have shown a desire to participate in peace operations. We will support this because it is in the function of Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration. Like we said, we're gonna help this government on that path. Unfortunately, so little has been done so far, and yesterday we criticised the government for further borrowing the country, or the government's representative to the Minister. Tomorrow, we will probably criticise them for economic policy because of foreign policy, but every little shift towards achieving that goal that most Serbian citizens voted for, not only for our party, will have LDP support. The story of Kosovo and NATO bombing, especially in Kosovo, often serves as an excuse not to go through Euro-Atlantic integration, but I guess those who use it as an excuse are aware that it is not very popular to say it, so, then, wrapped through a Kosovo story, they send a message to be military neutral, etc. We're talking military neutrality through that resolution on Kosovo, where it's mentioned in half a sentence. Certainly, with Montenegro's entry, Macedonia, Albania is already there, Croatia is there, Bosnian Serbs along with the other two peoples have made a decision to want to be with NATO, so Serbia will have to be defined then. Unfortunately, it won't be during this government, okay. It will be during the next government, I'm sure of it. I ask you again, Mr. Minister, and I appeal to you. To prevent further manipulation, because the half-truth, the absence of truth, is a fertile ground for manipulation. I again appeal to remove the code of secrecy from the number of victims and the structure of the victims in NATO bombing, because there is for every victim and name, and the place and the way that she lost her life during the bombing, whether she was a soldier, a cop or a civilian, so when we remember about the anniversary of these sad events, such as "slapping" in the media -- between 2,000 and 1,000, about 1,500, etc., she sends a message that we are unable to count our victims. Since we are able to count our victims and because they are numbered, and only under the code of secrecy, it gives an argument to those who are against the Euro-Atlantic future of our country, who want to return our country back to isolation, an isolated island, which will export instability to others, therefore, instability gives them a lot of ammunition. Take that tag off, post it. Now, through the memoirs of a retired Chinese president, we've learned how many of our soldiers died at the Chinese embassy. Let's find out who killed those 22 in the RTS building, along with 16 civilians whose names are known because they're civilians! Let's do it next time we meet this NATO summit! Let's open the archives, because if by October 5th Milosevic's regime had reason to hide it, after October 5th, those who held the military and had a decisive influence had an interest in hiding it, it seems to me that with you coming to the defence minister there is no longer a need. These are sad events that have happened, tragic for many, for 1,300 and some people it's a tragic event. But let's find out exactly how many there were, let's find out their names! Their families only know they were killed, but they don't know where, under any circumstances. Simply, facing past what my party advocates and those who voted for us mean that this tragic episode of our history does not remain secret, in the interest of those who want to continue to manipulate it. We've all condemned it. When we say we want to be a member of the NATO Pact, we don't say because we love the NATO Pact. You love women, children and parents, and the NATO Pact cannot be loved. It is for us the interest of Serbia, the long-term interest of Serbia, as all our neighbours around are assessing. We don't think our interest is against the interests of our neighbors, but it's the same as theirs. That's why we'll be safe in the next government, in which the LDP will play its part, go that way. But let's get those things straight before that, so that the propaganda that lasted is not used by those who basically don't want this country well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50319	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50320	Given that a topic is open that is not related to the agenda, and in the domain, believe it or not, I think it's high time that parliament created a committee or committee and that a nice, polling committee determines whether what you're saying is true or not. To talk about 22 people who lost their lives in the RTS building, and, while hiding it, simply, that's impossible. You understand, it's impossible. Logically speaking, it's impossible. Since the bombing, I've been the eighth minister in the position of Secretary of Defense. I'm eight in a row and I'm the longest, but I didn't know from anyone before that that kind of data existed. We often use some data that is placed in the media somewhere. There is often a desire to harm some day-to-day statements released from a centre that is for Euro-Atlantic studies, which is neither the euro nor the Atlantic and the authorities do not respect it. There is now something in parliament that really raises strong doubts about the military, but also about the whole country. You are an MP, a representative of the people, initiating a committee of inquiry. We, as the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, will give you everything that exists and give you what we may not know is being sought and to really determine what is the actual state. Because the way someone, every little bit, two, three, six months, so there's a theme that's not really there for me, it's just hurting the system. That mystery of an army where hundreds of people can disappear without anyone noticing it, it just doesn't exist. It's impossible. On the other hand, we as a defence system, and I must see, we gave these lists, we had very serious discussions for the conflicts that were both in Croatia and BiH, the representative of the "International Red Cross" which is in Serbia, at international forums said the Serbian Ministry of Defence as one of the most cooperative in the search for missing persons, for the dead, etc. I wonder, really, if you're reading the paper and you find out from the newspapers that the Chinese Embassy died, etc., I have to tell you that this story is pretty old, that even there was a theme of having some dinner there, so ball, I mean, it's really some crap that's not for parliament. I really appreciate you and, please, since we're talking about people, they have to have a name and a last name. We can't talk about it like this, that there are some chambers in the army, where some dark people, covered over their heads, with candles, that, so, hide some data. Believe me, a lot of that sounds impossible. But obviously there's some doubt about you, this isn't the first time you've said that you've asked for it. Then let's formalize it. I accept that as a proposal and I'm giving the initiative, I'm going to give all the capacities we have at the Ministry of Defense, and that at least one thing, which is the interest of the entire parliament and the state, we put an end to it and say, that that's what happened, we have knowledge, not to make up some history, and that we have all these legends and myths that you're involved in, probably unconsciously. It's legends, urban legends where 22 of them were hiding, I don't know where, and gone, and now, simply, nobody's looking for them. Do you really think that's possible? It's not possible. We have signed lists of everyone who was raising their journals, and I personally watched it in a time where there was a theme for those who were looking for more journals. So, signed. Do you think anyone could have been in the army and suddenly, like, disappeared? You understand, it's impossible. People, as I say, are things that are at least run in the military very clearly and very easily. Again, I say, I support, and I will give everything I have to give, to at least put that thing out of mystification, because it endangers us all together, including the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50321	Thank you. MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50322	I really don't want to open this story any further, Mr. Minister. I'll take it you didn't understand me, not that you wouldn't understand me. I didn't say someone was hiding names. I'm saying, remember in 2009, we marked and we remembered a sad ten-year-old. There's no public record of exactly how many victims there were, exactly in number. It's about like bombing Belgrade on April 6th, between 2,000 and 6,000. No, you're numbers, but "about, "decocative." If you convince me that a serious state is the one that didn't list and doesn't know the exact number of victims during the NATO campaign, then you're saying it's a non-serious state. And I'm just telling you the opposite, the state is serious and the state knows that number, I'm not talking about names. Because the families of those who lost their lives, they buried those people. I'm not talking about hiding the dead. I'm just talking about the exact number and structure of the victims of NATO campaign. That number hasn't been published in the media. You're telling me he's not in the army either, and now we need to build a survey board to find out it's 1,383 or 1,745, whether it's 200 civilians and the rest of the soldiers and cops. That's what the state knows. Exactly, believing the state knows that, I say we publish that information. I'm not saying that someone's hiding something, lists, and that, I'm only talking about one number and the structure of that number. If you remember, tell me, do you know that information? You won't know him. Does anyone know the number? It's never been published. You're gonna tell me that's not possible to find out. Well, it's possible and known. And if you think the former president of China is inventing and fantasizing, well, it's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50323	Time. Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50324	I have to say, books with the exact number have been published. Not only am I counting, but I'm counting the names for which they were known. There is, if I am not mistaken, and Mr. Odalovic knows it better, not only in 1999, but generally what happened in the last ten years. So, if you have any doubts, I suggest you don't run from the board of inquiry. For what? Therefore, you will have the opportunity to enter into every secret on this matter. There's not one thing I've avoided to reveal. I even took off the protection of military secrets and that story about TV, which shows that what, unfortunately, happened wasn't controlled the way someone accused us. It's not like that! It's not my interest to hide anything. On the contrary. It's my interest to get all this out to the clearing, as well as yours. But let's do it together. You're saying "war secret" isn't taken off, because I take it off, it's not taken off by my colleagues, I take it off, it's not my interest not to take it off. If you have any idea where that is, please give it to me. But the books are published. The only thing we can do is make a website, where it can be put up and that eventually, if there are families of some other people who are missing, to sign up and say their names aren't on that list. We can't invent new victims or hide others. Because it's about people. It's not a number of states that you don't know about, especially those that were engaged in the military themselves. It's an exaggerating piece of information. So I have no objection to what you're looking for, but I'm just saying it's already done. I don't know if you have that kind of knowledge. If not, let's make that survey board. I think it would be really useful for the public, for the parliament, for the military, and to demystify that more story, by which there are some, there, secret things, which the defence minister won't put out to the public. That's not true! I'm sorry that these things that come out of the public eye don't satisfy those that were somehow connected to some extraordinary events, but, believe me, everything about it, we put it all in public and demystified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50325	Thank you. National MP Mico Rogovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50326	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, regarding the previous agenda point – The Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011, and then we have a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011, if, in 2009, under the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, we put the military and police under the same hat, for the first time, really, but under the same hat, why, then, that the decision on the participation of the Serbian Army members in multinational operations, the current or the next calendar year, we are making a decision in parliament, and that the Ministry of Interior should be exceptional, that the decision is taken at the Ministry and the Government, not in parliament, because the missions in which they participate, too, the same rank? Indeed, with a symbolic number of members of the interior ministry, he still participates, even though Mr. Interior Minister said he would make an effort, both last and this year, to make a part of these forces significantly greater. We now have a situation where they only participate in two UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions, both Haiti and Liberia, with the same number of members in peacekeeping operations. I have to say here, because of the members of a party who put the barracks and the military in an incredibly low position, or called them social institutions centres, that as a member, and as an ex-member, the armies of Serbia really can't help but side with these people. I think that the Serbian Army, its members, has had more difficult times than they are right now, that people are still, mostly from the patriotic aspects, leaving and accepting these calls and these duties, not only for this only reason, as some here say, but it is indeed still an honor and a continuation of the tradition that the Serb army had. I am sorry that, in this context, the members of the Serbian Army are being abused today, neither guilty nor indemnity, but it is, little, Mr Minister, and because of the work of your controversy with MPs, you are dealing with the daily situation, then you are coming out of the agenda, as well as MPs, from the current topic. And the current theme is, indeed, very important. As you say, a very large number of people are interested this year, unlike in previous years, and this is for us, members of the SNS, perhaps just a symbolic step towards participation in peace missions. For the sake of the facts, we have only participated with military observers and sanity teams, and now we have a chance for another; Mr. Minister, you must know, as defence minister, although you were not at the time, that in 2005, we have been preparing part of the rank of an engineering company, the infantry company, the sanity water, the accompanying water of the military police and, unfortunately, since 2005, and even later, it has been several years, and that resource lasts for three years, because the period of training is only valid for three years, as well in 2010, we started preparing the Serbian Army unit in Zajecar, where the units of the infantry company rank, then the ABH water and police water prepared for participation in peace operations for 2011 and the following year. In the 2011 Plan, we see that we are planning to use two infantry units of rank water, power, because of the viewers I'm saying this, 36 soldiers. How is this possible from the point of view of rotation, since it is known how much power and resources is needed to be in reserve, or can only be executed one third? And we're training one infantry company, one infantry platoon we can use in multinational operations. We have forecasts for using two infantry waters. Is there anything else that happened, some situation that I don't know about, or are the plans in the next period in that direction? But due to the necessary rotation, it is really impossible to make use of our forces in multinational operations, according to the Annual Plan, as you predicted for 2011. (Minister Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: It is not a topic. Mr. Minister, you're telling me this isn't a topic. You've been coming out of the topic all along, and I'm talking about the participation of our forces in multinational operations and today's decision to participate in multinational operations. It's just, for the sake of the viewers, I'm stressing why the decision on the participation of the MEPs is not being discussed here in parliament, and you're transferring me to jump out of the agenda. You talk about other situations all the time. Please, because of the importance of the Ministry that you are leading, it is really not correct and I do not want to discuss with you on this subject and in the way you discuss with the other MPs. I would like to stress because of the importance of the Ministry of Defence and because of the importance of resources both the Ministry of Defence and the army of Serbia, because of their members, that they, and in such difficult conditions of economic life, are doing their duties with dignity and dignity. I'm not really going down to the level of debate with you, that's not my wish. I must continue to call on the capacities that, in the meantime, both previous ministers and all their associates, and you, as defence minister, are making in the field of participation in peace operations. Those capacities, since you're saying this isn't a theme, are the rank of one point. The seriousness of participation in peace operations is at least in the ranking of the battalion contingent. And that's why I told you that this step through two infantry waters is probably a good step in participating in peace operations. Because of members of Serbia's military and the size of the funds that I listed in the previous speech, which, somewhere, is about 650 million, should be compared to the figure for the previous year 2010. And, Mr. Minister, for your information, when you make a decision that you probably wrote, you must have examined it, in your explanation, in chapter III -- an explanation of individual solutions, you say these are peace operations for 2010. So much for being off topic or not off topic. Here, take the decision that you delivered to us in Parliament, where in Chapter III – An explanation of individual solutions, you are talking about the use of the Serbian Army in 2010, and we are in 2011. If that decision and explanation are on three lists, then this kind of failure of your ministry should not have happened. Because of the members of the Serbian Army and because of this figure of 650 million dinars, I must say, for this calendar year and for participation in peace operations, and not to be that all funds are mostly directed towards the personal income of these people, I must say, because of them, that these incomes are about 250 million, and that the amount of 400 million has been allocated to other systems, health care security, travel and everything else. It is a big number, but this year we have increased the number of our members in peacekeeping missions compared to the previous year, so it's a valid thing. The second thing, unlike the police who are still in the capacity to train participation in peacekeeping missions, because there is no possibility of me touching this topic, which is why I am talking about this agenda point, because with its capacities it has not worked seriously to ensure that members, especially in the knowledge of foreign languages, are ready for peace operations, and we also have a drastic situation that there are only two persons responsible for the coordination and implementation of peace operations in which the MUP members participate. There is indeed a large resolution capacity in the Ministry of the Army that has been serious about this topic for years. Given the situation, you can't even talk about large numbers. As you said yourself, these figures range from $1,700 to $3,800 at the highest possible capacity, as far as individual cases are concerned, or the salaries of members of our peacemakers. Part of the funding in the area is even covered by the Security Council's capacity, or UN, by refunding part of the funds, mainly through the diaries. Then it remains the ability of our people involved in peacekeeping missions to literally save on their own safety, by giving up their safety and by literally giving up some other conditions of life, food and everything else, as they managed to save, so much they were able to return to their homes. It cannot be said that it is solely the only reason why our people, regardless of which ministry, or actions of the defence force, participate in peace operations. Finally, I must also conclude that this is the first and serious step towards the participation of our forces in multinational operations, given the tradition and all that the Serbian army has possessed, and that the political importance of this issue, I must say, given that this is already one of the colleagues from the ruling coalition at the beginning of today's presentation, the political influence of our country will be even greater through the participation of a larger contingent of these forces, namely through their presence in UN missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50327	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50328	It's not right for yourself to put more attention to the point that has passed, but to the one that is now, and tell me that I'm jumping out of context. The use plan is the point we talked about, it also talked about lines, etc. The point includes six peacekeeping missions, a decision to send a total of 32 members of the Serbian Army. It's not true that 650 million, as you said, is exactly 387.645,000, etc. dinar. On the other hand, it's not my decision not to find a MUP in this decision. Simply, the MUP sends its members on the basis of the government's decision and it is defined by some special legal act, which is in force. So it's unusual and I have to answer now why such a law is in force. Mr. Rogovic, I know you were a member of the Serbian Army, and I know what class you are. I don't know what you left the Army of Serbia if it's so dear and close to your heart, but I accept any criticism if we talk about this point. If you don't, don't criticize me for answering what you're extending as a topic, which is not the subject of this decision. The decision is only on six missions, 32 members of the Serbian Army. Like I said, how many dinars, and you've said twice as much as you have, and that's what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50329	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, please. (People MP Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I did not ask for a word. ) You are on the list of MPs declared for word in a unique search, others. Would you like some? (Employee Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I have spoken already. ) No, no. We're at the second point now. This is the fourth item of the agenda. Professor, Professor, God, I'm sorry. You haven't just been a professor in the names you've gotten, I'm sorry, please. Mr. Nikolic, you've been reported. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50330	You know very well that you have now given yourself up and that you have expressed your true opinion of me. Thank you very much, and you know it's coming out of your subconscious, which you can't control. So, everything I wanted to say to the minister, and I'd like him not to engage in debates with the ambassadors, because I see him in office...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50331	You've been told to talk about the agenda point, not to hold the sermons and analyze 'unconscious', for which, indeed, you're not qualified. Are you going to play a part in this act or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50332	I'm just asking you to respect your profession and not engage in what your profession is in the congregation. For your...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50333	I'm just asking you to get back on the subject. Don't let my profession intrigue you all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50334	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there are special offices for you and my condition. The assembly is neither for yours nor for my condition. And I won't talk since you gave me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50335	All right. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go. Mr. Rogovic just answered. You want to talk? Replica? You're right, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50336	Mr. Minister, I didn't even hide that I was an ex-military member, and besides, we're all members of the Serbian Army for life. I don't want to go with you, and I don't want to discuss it here. He also has my record in the Serbian Army, so I'm proud of that part of my career. But what you said was that the decision concerns 300 and a few million, this for the public, and the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other forces is 600 and a few million. The participation of the MUP is worth 10 million, largely, those are the funds that are focused on the participation he planned according to today's decision and what we are likely to do in the course of the year. There's no reason for you to challenge me with some arguments in the first part of the exposure I've talked about this situation. So, clearly, there's no unexplained matter left. I do not want to engage politically, because it is not your place to engage in controversy with MPs, so I have directed this comment and the speech I have given accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50337	National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50338	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I would have liked it if you had said "Professor Donka Banovic", and I would have liked to have been a member of the Serbian Army, but unfortunately, I haven't, and, however, I think I know a lot of things about it. Point 4 is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011 and in that decision we see that participation in six different UN peacekeeping missions is envisaged, in six different unstable states and regions in the world. The decision shows that the government, i.e. the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, plans either to replace or new missions, to send members to Congo, Libya, Côte d'Ivoire, Lebanon, Cyprus and the Middle East, and all of these are UN operations. Also, in the light of this decision, the legal basis for this decision, which is contained in Article 140, is also cited. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that the Serbian Army can be used beyond Serbia's borders, after the decision is made or not taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Later, in that same explanation, there are three reasons for our army's involvement in multinational operations. The first obligation is to meet internationally accepted obligations stemming from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the UN organisation and that it is necessary to replace people in those multinational operations already under way and that it is also necessary to confirm participation in operations that are scheduled to begin in 2011. All these arguments are clear and nothing is disputed about these six UN missions. Also, we know, you've told us several times today, and by the way, we know who's been following the area a little bit, that there are about 40 or 35 of our members of the Serbian Army who are currently engaged in various operations around the world. They're mostly observers or sanity teams. We know that the experience and engagement of these members of ours has been highly evaluated in the contingents they are in. For example, I remembered the good rating of our team, though, was made up of police officers in Haiti. Even as far as our team is concerned, there was a lady in charge, so their participation was noticed. The Minister of Ignorance that we somehow combine this fourth point with a third point, but they're kind of a natural continent. It seems to me in Parliament when we should put together some points we don't do it, and when we don't, then we connect. But it doesn't matter, I think it's all about this subject. In that year's 2011 plan, although my colleague Zeljko Tomic said something about it, but he was talking about maybe that these reports could be more precise, we see here that in one operation, I think in Lebanon, our members will be within the Spanish contingent, that in the operation in Cyprus our members will be part of the Slovak contingent. Indeed, for these other four operations you did not specify within which contingents they would be engaged. Next, and that question has already been asked here several times, that you came up with this annual plan that has a financial plan... (President: Mr. Nikolic, you are distracting Professor Donko Banovic as he speaks.) We professors are also used to talking even though everyone around here is talking, so that doesn't bother me. So the Annual Plan also lists financial resources. Knowing how responsible the men who work in the army are, the soldiers, I assume they did this in time, but you didn't deliver it to the Assembly in time. It's logical that if you already have an annual plan and you have an estimated amount of funding you need, then it's kind of a normal order to adopt that plan here first, and then to get it into the budget for that year, and not vice versa. Or do you have such infinite confidence in the congregation's majority that this annual plan will also be accepted? Otherwise, you'd have done it before, and then you'd have planned the funds. One more thing that MPs can object to is that you are not individually on missions to indicate how much financial resources they are. Also, I can guarantee that some sector in the military did. It was a data you might be interested in, I would be particularly interested, because there are certainly different costs for different missions, and as far as travel costs are concerned, even the number of people involved, etc. You could do that in the next year's plan to deliver it to the MPs. What is particularly worrying about the plan is this decision where the UN missions are and where our members are going. Nothing is absolutely controversial, but what worries about this annual plan, which is why we in the DSS believe the Assembly should not vote for the adoption of such an annual plan, is that you plan for members of the military and police to participate in operations under the direct command of the EU. These are two operations that our people are still going to participate in this year. It is an EU military operation to train Somalia's security forces, but people are practically sent to Uganda because that training is being carried out there. The second operation is the EU maritime force in Somalia, where there is a major problem with piracy, or hijacking ships. You said one or two of our men would be engaged. So what worries is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to send its members on a mission headed by the EU, which we know has both civilian and military missions. Unfortunately, we know of this already famous civilian mission that the EU has installed on Cosmet. We at the DSS have warned you many times, begged you, begged you to take care of what you do. Eulex is the mission set out in Marty Ahtisaari's plan. The most important task of Eulexa, it is seen from this coin – 'eu', well, 'lex', who knows Latin, 'lex', the law, their task is to help this fragile young state, which they have recognised, to build a legal state, to build institutions, etc. This is the sole task of an EU civilian mission, Eulex, in the territory of the province of Kosovo. About 1,000 people of different professions were hired in Eulex: judges, prosecutors, lawyers, police officers, etc. Again, their task in Cosmet is to build an independent Kosovo. All according to the plan of the famous peacemaker and Nobel laureate, now Marty Ahtisaari. The Serbian government has persistently implicated and entangled the state in a serviced network of contracts, agreements, agreements, technical agreements and all that it does hidden from the public's eyes and thus crawling, again I say, hidden from the public, is slowly working to recognise Kosovo at one point through all these contracts. So no one thinks that even this government, I guess they're so smart, no one expects them to say at some point – Serbia recognises Kosovo, but all of these steps you take and all of this that's done hidden from the public's eyes, through various agreements, agreements, etc., here none of us would even know about some agreements if we weren't MPs. Imagine, then, how many citizens have no idea, so one morning we will all wake up together and see that practically Serbia, and all of this with the help of its European friends, has recognised independent Kosovo. It can still be elaborated on this. We can expect in a year or two, after we sign this agreement with the EU, this framework agreement, that tomorrow one of these, for example, judges or prosecutors, who have not passed the re-election, are available, we can expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to deploy them and send them to the civilian Eulexa mission. It may, theoretically, happen that a judge, a police officer from Leskovec, Valjev, Somboro, Belgrade, goes to Pristina to work on building fragile institutions of an independent Kosovo and to work to build a rule of law. Another very dangerous thing that you and your ministry are doing at the helm, to get away from the public's eyes again, is that you are practically negotiating and preparing Serbia to join the NATO alliance, regardless of what you know that this assembly has voted one resolution, which, among other things, states that the Republic of Serbia is military neutral. You are pushing Serbia into NATO through various agreements, agreements, agreements, etc., although you know that according to the latest surveys, December 2010, only 15.1% of Serbian citizens support this Atlantic integration. How do you do that? I'll set an example. All MPs in their material received the proposal. I expected it to be within the framework of this bill, but it wasn't. All of us in the assembly procedure here have a bill sent by the government on February 11th, a few days ago, and this proposal is in fact a contract between the government of the Republic of Serbia and a group of national NATO codification directors, i.e. this is a contract for the adoption of the NATO codification system in Serbia. The agreement was signed, we see it from the material, May 25th in Edinburgh, on behalf of the government, or Ministry of Defence, where Mr Dusan Spasojevic signed it, and on behalf of NATO, watch your name, George Bond. The contract will regulate the exchange of data and codification services between Serbia and NATO, with Serbia, in addition to adopting the codification system despite Serbia's signing already, the government has not yet confirmed here, the agreement to adopt that codification system with the alliance, but Serbia and individually with NATO member states will sign bilateral agreements. It's that network of different agreements and contracts. In the same bill, there is also an explanation which is already known matrix about how the adoption, for example, of this NATO-used codification system, is the only salvation for our military industry, for our dedicated industry, that their rescue is in export, and in order for these exports to be successful, codes and standardisation must be adopted. It's the same story again -- either Europe or death, or NATO or the collapse of the entire economy. It's not healthy, what this government does to this people, it's not healthy. It's not healthy that you don't always have two options or options in your life. You have to have a lot, then you choose. The worst thing is when you get cornered and told – either take it or leave it or, hello, no more. It is a matrix that has been successfully served by this government for five years, i.e. one of the terrible models, where all of us Serbian citizens have been driven into this vicious circle. You have three years of this government, the standard of all citizens is very vulnerable. You have 400,000 jobs instead of new jobs that are out of work, and then you have another one, and I expect it in this next campaign that's coming, there's going to be a story again -- people, to make you feel better, we have to go to the EU, we have to go to NATO, and that's where we'll go only if you vote for us. So it turns out that one of you is going round and round. You, when it comes to NATO integration, are going one more step further, that is to say, from the media again, that this summer, Belgrade will host the NATO summit, i.e. there will not only be leaders of NATO's general staff, but will also be from the Partnership for Peace, and there will be around 68, I think, delegation. For example, what Minister Sutanovac points out is that it is a great honor for Serbia. It's neither a confession nor an honor. The meeting is no recognition for the Serbian state, but another humiliation for both the Serbian state and the Serb army. Serbia is scheduled to host representatives of the alliances that bombed Republika Srpska in the 1990s, with many victims and bombed Serbia in 1999, and that is something that is so easy to forget. My colleague Zeljko Tomic spoke sarcastically and commented with irony on the minister's comment, when asked – which is why it is all about the recognition of the state, the military, etc., but, my God, he also stated that it is an opportunity for Serbia to develop tourism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50339	People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011. I'm going to make some general evaluations from the SRS' point of view, above all, regarding the peace missions of our army. None of us thinks anything bad about that question. It is good to help people around the world who have been killed in the war in their countries, but first we have to look at our positions, our material opportunities, our situation in our army, and some facts about the countries where these peace missions are scheduled. Now we see that these missions are also on two tracks. There's the UN, there's the EU. It should be taken into account as an interest of some countries that also participate in these peacekeeping missions with a significant number of soldiers. In chapter II, Reasons for making a decision, in the fourth position, you say that Serbia will clearly show that it is an active factor in preserving international peace and security in the world. Then you mention international law, international relations, etc., all in superlative, not to mention further. It is now a question – whether other UN member states are on the road to Serbia, in respect of international law, or whether they are right in the case of Serbia of the country, whose soldiers may be shoulder to shoulder with ours in Congo and Liberia, somehow they have just thrown that right under their feet. You mention in the same fourth position the engagement of Serbia's capacity. The capacity of our army today is such that military exercises, to say symbolically, are performed on a surface that responds to the surface of the football field, and all participants of the exercise can fit into five trucks. Since 2001, to this day, the capacity of the Serbian armed forces has been reduced consciously, in order to come into the situation today, when we are to join the UN efforts, and now we see the EU, to preserve peace in the world, and I say, we do not give God to keep them in the way the Serbs at KIM, either in Krajina or in Bosnia, we perform symbolically, with several or a few members of Serbia's armed forces. That symbolism is the same as if someone from the Sahara Desert went to compete at the Winter Olympics. Regarding these multinational operations, the Serbian Army, Chief of Staff, Lieutenant General Miloje Miletic himself says that it is a priority in the work of the military, as well as a statement from 1 February 2010: first, training; second, a programme for participation in UN peacekeeping missions; third, adoption of the doctrine, regulation; fourth, professionalisation of the army and, fifth, the addition of units and military institutions. It's all beautifully imagined probably somewhere in Brussels. You will transform the army so that you can create almost nothing from something, that the current army becomes such an army that will not be able to resist any serious armed force in our environment. As far as these missions are concerned, you worry about how to train and train a small number of military and police officers and send them to these countries that are listed here and you think you've solved all the problems. For this you will probably get a confession from Ban Ki Moon, and here your friends from NATO and the EU did not lift their finger as peacemakers to protect not only human rights, but also the lives of Serbs in KIM and beyond. In front of the eyes of these peacemakers, under the UN flag, the Cypriots, led by Thaci, conducted Serbs on live slaughters, removed their organs and sold throughout Europe and the world. They closed their eyes, they didn't want to save, they didn't want to stop that horrible crime, and now they're just saying, they wrote some letters back in 2003, but you know what they say: "He wrote deaf to the blind, and he didn't read." Our army is certainly aware of the fact that these are primarily small missions with few people, but our reality in Serbia is different, and this is a drastic downsizing of soldiers, military members under arms who should defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia if threatened. As things stand, we cannot cover with the people a serious long line of fronts that would cover, say, most of the state's borders. Is the defence minister aware of the fact that Shiptari, currently occupied, can place 150,000 people under arms within 24 hours? Does the defence minister think that in such a situation our army, which is technically mutilated, and later on, I'm going to name examples, and technically destroyed, a number of people, who are almost unpreserved, because a few generations back, we know well, young people, served the so-called civilian military deadline, didn't take a rifle in their lives, and how do you expect them to defend the country tomorrow, and how can someone fight to defend Serbia if they're behind his back "Kandićka", "women in black", Biserko and who knows who else from that repertoire of directors under the protection of the current regime?- I'm sorry. So will this current army be able to defend the people and the state? Gentlemen, it will be easy for us and for the Congo, for Liberia, for the Middle East and Lebanon, we need to secure ourselves here in Serbia first. Because if you continue to modernise the army like this, you will soon be able to place the entire Serbian army in the stadium of the "Belgrade" Belgrade, in Karaburma. The fact that NATO mecenaries brainwash you by telling you that wars in the Balkans are over for all time and that there is no one to fight with, they are stories for small children. There are a thousand arguments to deny this thesis, and the first one is, very simply, why did America build the Uroshec 'the largest military base in Europe'?- I'm sorry. Another argument is history, let's look at only 20 centuries ago how many times the borders of the Balkan states have crossed. To return to that fourth position, where the Serbian Army's capacity is mentioned and to see to what extent the capacities of today's Serbia Army have been brought. The defence minister was otherwise praised for the NATO summit in Lisbon at the end of 2010, and much has been done to reduce the existing capacity since 2000. Right after buying the Smederian Irons by the American company Ju-es style, remember the genius of Nemanja Kolesar, the Irons Road, the convoys of tons and tons of destroyed weapons and equipment, cutting tanks, cannons, pitchers, anti-aircraft cannons, plane parts, infantry weapons, and all of this went down. All that was saved with KIM, from tomahawks, phantoms, F117, after three years was turned into old iron, and what was even more humiliating, all this was done with the presence of representatives of the Western embassies. So, how many artillery tools are there in Serbia today, of course, without those museums? We've fallen on batteries that fire honorary floats across cities. Someone two years ago joked that we had anti-building protection, but last year, the government forgot to buy anti-building missiles, so the villagers were left without that protection. All T55 tanks were withdrawn from use, and they could modernize, and that's what the plans were for. You've reduced the caliber of the M70 automatic rifle to 5.56 millimetres, which means that all the 7.62-caliber ammunition has become unusable. The Anti-Strela system is completely disintegrated, that's probably because of the invisible F117. The Samoan system is also disbursed, it's the ZSU57. Don't let me count on it. In the end, you changed all acts by reputation of the NATO Pact. You will probably make this decision because you have the necessary majority, but what remains as an undisputed fact is that the UN, primarily in the Balkans, in areas where the Serb people live, failed or, rather, did not want to protect the Serb people, its property, culture, religious heritage and tradition, has already been placed as a silent observer, as in the case of trade in the organs of killed Serbs at KIM. It's a historical fact you won't be able to deny. Finally, what citizens need to know, Chapter IV, the financial resources needed to implement this decision, amounts to a sum of 387,645,633 dinars. So, from the budget for the purpose of preserving peace in these countries of Asia and Africa, you will single out 387 million, which is really too much, given the difficult financial situation and the huge deficit in the country. With this money, gentlemen of the ministry, you can feed two months of military service in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50341	Dear fellow Members of the People, I'd like to inform you that we are in direct transmission by 6:00 p.m., and then, for the rest of the work, we'll have a delayed transmission. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, here I am, somehow, having bad luck or always being transferred out or chaired by Mrs. Comic, or that the minister who should be there is not there. It won't bother me to bring out what I planned, essentially, the answers don't even have anyone to give me. I hope one of the DS spokesmen comes out to meet my debate and gives some answers, even if there's no transmission. What is important is that I ask, in the very beginning of Minister Sutanovac himself, to send one of the two contingents of peacekeeping missions to Svetozar Markovic Street, to negotiate and intercede between the military homeless and those special units that have arrived, with helmets and shields, to remove those same military officers and officers from the military accommodation, not to intercede in favour of the unregistered Military Institute ''Dededinje'', but to help and find some modus that these people in this snow, at six o'clock in the morning, are not kicked out of "Bristola" from the Galeb in Durmitoria and from the military hotel on Svetozar Markovic Street. I think a mission like that could be the most helpful and, after all, solve the problem, first in his own house, then out in the yard. As far as decisions are concerned, it is the product of the Annual Plan that we had on the agenda today, the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in peacekeeping missions in 2011. However, the decision itself has something in it that has no plan, which is that all peacekeeping missions by the UN and not the EU mission operations, and that is good, wherever there is no EU, in any document, it is for the citizens of Serbia and for Serbia. What's the difference between Decision 2010 and this decision in 2011 is that we don't have the same state and the same mission, especially we don't have Chad and one Central African state, and that's why we got those standard obligations that we had, especially for the State of Côte d'Ivoire, which I'm going to talk about during the debate itself. However, another thing that characterizes this decision, as well as the 2011 proposal itself, is the annual level of the plan. I'll remind you that last June we adopted an annual level, and that already today in 2011, we adopt in February, so it hasn't been a year. I will also remind you that in these missions, especially in Congo and Cyprus, the mandate expires on June 30th, and on June 15th for Cyprus, therefore, again half a year. Then we can freely call this a half-year plan or a half-year-old decision, because we can't be so aware of whether or not the mandate will be extended, and we can't put the peacemakers in such a position that if they return after six months, they break the law, which says they have to be there for a year. Therefore, a game of words that can cost both the state and the law, and only the Ministry, especially for the Ivory Coast and the Middle East, where there is no record of how long the term of office is. It can take two months and three, it can take five and six years, and every time we're in a position to make the same decision for half a year. But let's just say that this topic doesn't solve the fundamental problem and that this theme is a game of words, and that it can be solved by renaming the title. The other shortcomings in this decision and in the plan itself are analyses of what is the worst thing in this whole story, that there are no reports of the situation in the previous period. Since 2010, we haven't had a report from our peacemakers - whether they are at risk of health, whether they are threatened with security, what the results of this mission are, whether the financial resources are enough, etc. We do not have an analysis and we do not have a report and this is, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic and all the DS speakers, a clear example of putting the army out of civilian control, which is obvious, because the Assembly Security Committee has not received it either. Now, for the Assembly Security Committee, I am not surprised, given that the chairman of that committee is no longer Mr Dragan Todorovic, but someone from the position of government. It's proof that civilian military control is being reduced, however much you want to present and understand, it's facts. Why hasn't the report been delivered, is it military secret? I'll remind you that yesterday we were discussing giving guarantees to SDPR for exports to Algeria, and no one knows what is being exported there, whether they are making halls, whether they are exporting weapons, ammunition, whether they are human resources, because the Ministry is the bearer of this business? Also, it is very important to mention the haughtiness of the Minister himself who says: "If you are interested and if you do not believe in the civilian control of the Ministry, you pay and visit the missions". It's a picture of the state and opportunity of democracy in the state, and also in the Assembly itself, which I'm not going to comment on any further, and I think she has some merit to be mentioned. In translation, we're discussing something with facts we don't have. We don't know what the conditions are or whether they'll be met. To be more convincing, to put it this way, that one stupidity causes another is a single member of point 5(4) of the Defence Act, where it is said that it is prescribed that the defence of the country is achieved by participating in multinational operations. When we discussed these years and this law, we drew your attention that this stupidity would cause ten others. Now you see we're right. I will point out this, for example, to meet citizens because they do not have this material in front of them, for comparison, compared to the 2010 Decision, what the decision looks like, when we are discussing for 2011 – the UN Peace Operation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire for 2010, says that military observers are engaged in the control of the census, preparing for the existing elections, be careful, now, a peace mission in preparation for the existing elections, preventing illegal trade in carrying out regular patrol duties. If we link this finding to the VI head, this decision, which refers to the available forces and material and financial resources to participate in multinational operations, in particular the position of 2nd, here is what it says: "The Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army have an adequately trained people for participation in multinational operations, according to the dynamics and structure of the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011. ''Let's say what other forces are, because we don't want to discuss it, but the Ministry has prepared a mission to conduct elections in one country?- I'm sorry. What does that mean in translation? In the 2011 proposal for a decision, it may be funny, and I think it's funny that the military is doing it, believe me, but I have a fear, of that laughter many have suffered in Serbia and abroad, for the same country, for the Côte d'Ivoire of Côte d'Ivoire: 'The military observers have been hired to control the census, to prevent illegal trade and to carry out regular patrol duties. The situation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire is unstable after the realised presidential elections, but without the elements of jeopardising the security of members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. '"So our peacemakers are out of nowhere to conduct the elections and, immediately, the situation is unstable. And it's in common with the country of Serbia. Whenever the country feels Serbia and this government is threatened, it will hold elections through the military and the police and will feel insecure?- I'm sorry. Then we'll have another quasi-rule that looks, like, unsatisfactory to get to the same goal, that is. falsified, false election results, to implement existing goals. There is a serious reason for the concern of all political parties. Whoever carefully reads these two cited passages can easily conclude, concludes that in Serbia, members of the military and police are training and preparing for the census and participating in election preparations, training for this purpose in distant countries, to practice. Thank God, the minister has arrived, that's what the minister himself said, that they can be better educated because they will follow the standards of other countries there and better educate themselves on how to conduct the elections, because they will follow the standards of other countries. To be more precise, it will actively apply to the future democratic elections in Serbia, as the current power of this institution, the police and the military sees its democracy as the main foundation. If such democracy conducts elections like the Ivory Coast in this way, we will have a huge problem! However, that is how I interpret this motion for a decision, because if I were wrong today we would have here an analysis of the report on the work of peacekeeping missions in the previous period, because we cannot discuss it now, or if we ever discuss it, it will be too late, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. What I'd like to remind Mr. Sutanovac of is that we were a threatened country of various, war dogs organized by the Fifth Corps in the '90s. It was then the greatest response and recruits, both volunteers and all officers and senior officers. It's the best proof of what trust in the army was then. Since you spoke to an MP and had no dilemma about it, about the military rating. Mr. Sutanovac, since you haven't been in the O.R., please advise that people from military institutions are not expelled at 6 a.m., with the help of special forces, to send a peacekeeping mission to intercede between the military homeless and the Military Unregistered Deedinje Institute and to save those officers and officers from your own army, because that's how her rating is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50343	The People's MP, Pai Mamchilov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable President of Parliament, we are today, here, having a debate with the minister representing Serbia's Army, and yet we are also representing the interests of the people of Serbia. It may immediately come to a man's mind that an interesting fact, that this column of us representing the people seems to be going into two columns. You see, we in the SRS have made it clear that we cannot vote for the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011, and I will try to explain the same to you, which is why we actually feel that there is no place for such a decision of the National Assembly of Serbia. Someone here was saying that this is an extremely important topic. How important it is for our society, you can see by the number of MPs and by the number of debaters. That discussion will be quiet soon. What I'm saying is, I remind our distinguished representatives of the Ministry that we live in a country where millions of people are out of work. Official sources say 18.8%, 750,000 said. Serious sources say - a million. We live in a country in the Balkans that currently has the lowest personal income. I just can't believe Albania has a lower one, someone says Romania has a lower one, but let's just leave it alone, let's not do that. We live, gentlemen of the Ministry of the Army, in a country that is endangered biologically. I know this bothers you, you say I'm not yelling, and I'm yelling for the citizens, not for you. Serbian citizens should know that every year there are 70,000 fewer of us in the areas of the country of Serbia, the state of Serbia, if you will! And, you, Mr. Minister, you should know, and I'm going to tell you that you have very good reasons why you should personally know that two monsters are harassing Serbia, which are two epidemics, cardiovascular diseases and cancer, which are destroying the nation. Here's a piece of information from Vojvodina, the most developed end of our country, nine and a half thousand cancer patients in 2010. Six thousand died, six thousand had to receive air therapy, and it received only two and a half thousand! So, what have we come up with on the Health Committee?- I'm sorry. We have come to the conclusion that Serbia is neither technologically nor humanely prepared to help the sick citizens of Serbia. There's 13 machines missing, and the personnel, let's not even say it now. That's the problem, Mr. Army, Serbia. Of course, you will say to me, "Well, what has become of these health problems?" What do I care? Here, there are two reasons. One of the simplest, all of your missions you send are mostly sanity teams. You'll agree, probably. I've been reading. I resent your paper, which has been resented by many colleagues, that there is no quality information about these missions of yours, based on which we could assess what someone says serves us proudly, that our people there have proven heroism and humanity. What kind of heroism? It's heroism to defend yourself against your enemies. It's magic to defend others from yourself. Are we showing solidarity? It's already something else. And we didn't get any information from you that would convince us of that. Now you will say, "Well, I am the face of war." Of course, we used to have the People's Army. We now have the Army of Serbia. From the looks of the people's army, you were in Israel, you saw well. You weren't. You should give it up. That's a big minus. The strongest army, the strongest army and the best organized army, and you don't know it. Go over there and see what the armed people look like, and the results should be known to you! These next to you are informed, they can probably leave the data behind. What did we get now? We've now received reforms. What did we get with the reforms? A professional army. Mercenary army. Now that you're looking at professional armies and mercenaries when they're going somewhere they've got a boss and he's paying them. We send our soldiers on suspicious missions and, look, we pay our soldiers. That's what you've done with your reform, with all your rude throwouts, you won't disturb me at all. Get on with it, it's part of your personality, your education, and I don't mind! Let's keep that story going. So when you're asked by journalists -- Mr. Minister, here, I'm going to quote a little bit, the journalist asks you, "It is certain that the money for the purchase of new weapons and combat systems is not available, but is the budget money enough for the remont of existing funds to continue to be functional? "You're not as squeamish as you are now when you're throwing me and you're very skillfully avoiding the answer. What do you say? Everyone knows what that answer is. "We have largely remounted the funds we have. However, there is a period of use of these funds and they cannot be remounted to infinity. Also, the technologies that existed when these funds were purchased and today's technology is not compatible. These funds expire, no longer worth it, even though they can be used. "Is there money, a clear man asks you, and you are wise to avoid the answer that there is no money. As many planes as you have and in what state they're in, you can only show them for a parade. That's the situation in the army. Why am I saying all this? I am talking for the simple reason why you are asking Serbian citizens to invest in your missions, which, behold, are around the world and where citizens should support the stay of our troops on these missions. It's an interesting thing to me, Chad suddenly fell out. There's no Chad. In an interview, in a propaganda list, you will know well which, they ask the competent person for these jobs, I will not speak his name, he says, for the participation of a member in UN operations, the Republic of Serbia receives $1,028 per month. If we participate with funds such as a Polish hospital, etc. Therefore, you get $1,028 from the UN. This propaganda reading I'm reading is a Euro-Atlantic initiative, and a gentleman who says that is called, let's see the name, Colonel Jelisa Radivojević. Now you're asking for money for wages, and you're getting 1,028 euros. You laugh, you laugh. Now I seriously doubt that what you want to take for wages and personal income goes somewhere else, because these soldiers, here, it says nice, I'll give it to you, so you kill it, you never killed it, it looks like. There's another thing that's still very interesting. Let's deal with this Congo. That's your first. Why did you avoid saying what Congo is? What's the problem in Congo? That's very interesting. Here, let me tell you something about the situation in Congo. By 2007, there were 111 dead UN members in Congo, I don't know any further information, you'll have better information, fresher, so you'll be able to say. I know our missions there take part in the plane transport to Kinshasa, with, someone, level two to level three, etc. Now, everyone thinks eight nations and 25 tribes are at war in Congo. Everyone thinks that this war, called the Great World African War, is something that's caused by a local factor. It's not! In Congo are the largest mineral sites without which no computer, no cell phone, and the mineral is called "coltan". I assume these next to you know they're telling you, 80% of that raw material goes from the Congo, the former Central Zair. Not to talk about technology and stuff, that's enough. In 2001, Kofi Annan, in his UN Security Council report, accuses the "Bayern" concert in Germany that he is a driver of the conflict in order to get as cheap a raw material as possible, which is taken out by unfortunate people with his hands. Of course, it should also be known that this raw material is mixed with uranium and that it causes cancer in these people. I don't want to talk about price and other things, you know that far better than I do. Three multinational companies called Nokia, let's not list them all, I don't want to list them, are the main protagonists behind the curtains that support the war conflicts in Congo for these, these, their interests. What about the troops in Congo? A lady representing the military ministry laughs, e, in Congo there are known affairs with the Pakistani contingent, with an Indian contingent, around illicit trade in these raw materials, of course, and gold trade. So there are other interests that are interesting. And there are 50 and more countries of the world involved in the troops. My question is, what are we doing there? What are we doing there? We who do not have a decent personal income, which we do not have a job, which we cannot treat Serbian citizens, here is something that is no information for you, not to say that I am destructive, and the money that you have separated, you have set aside a large percentage for the health care of that contingent. Is that where you send the sick? Malignancies? Who are you sending? Why did you spend so much money on these people's health care? Explain! Let us not act destructively, here is a constructive proposal – Kosovo. Here are the Doctors' Studies from Kosovo, from the orthopedic clinic, since 1999, there have been 162% increase in cancer. Separate that money and use that dream of yours to examine what your duty is, the consequences of the poored uranium in Kosovo and Serbia!- I'm sorry. I'm not yelling right now. Now I'm talking slowly to wake up people's consciousness. Serbia has this as a problem, not to push among 55 countries in the world on a profitable market of raw materials for the electronics industry. Therefore, what I have told you, we will not vote for this, because it is not going to be someone who has nothing – and the beggar is spreading to court and to be an army of mercenaries. You who want to say, when you beat up a girl and when you rape her, you have to marry her and be happy, don't tell us. You enjoy it, we won't. We remember NATO aggression and we know who our natural allies are. We might believe to you that this is true and good, that it exists in the multipolar world, which is restored, the same distance and the same procedure. No! No! You are servants of a suspicious matter, and the Serbian radicals will not participate! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50345	Respecting the really need to express your political position, I think there were terms and tonality that really didn't... (The People's Messenger Paja Momchilov, from the place: He throws it to me.) Please, in accordance with the need to cultivate Parliament's dignity. Mr. Sutanovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50346	I must say that this discussion was, indeed, probably, the worst today. The amount of negative energy, hate and hate speech that you have brought here as a doctor is alarming, to tell us that we are servants. You're a serious man, in serious years. It does not say that you are accusing members of the Serbian Army of participating in some murky activities, where you said, in the Congo. What's really going on in that head so you can think of something like that? What problems do you have when you can talk like that here, while still nodding your head to support what you've said? I understand that you're in effect saying that you're a man who, well, got a little tired this afternoon, and you're having a hard time having this whole discussion. That you accuse members of the Army of such a thing, you, with what capacity? An MP? So what? It just doesn't work that way. I'm really expressing dissatisfaction. This is a violation of every norm. Servants?- I'm Come on, I mean! I'm sorry you didn't have the patience and the ability to listen to the exposure at the beginning when I made it clear – that out of 650 million hundred and seven, eight million give us the UN. Yes, but you were just reading and accusing us of taking money from the Maltens because Colonel Elisha said we could get money from the UN. We're getting money from the UN. It's no secret. That's what it says. If you're a little careful, you could read it, it's all very well structured, I agree with Mrs. Donko Banovic that maybe we could structure this and that every peace mission was clearly recognized and clearly seen, and that's what we're going to do next time. But I will not allow you to insult the members of the Serbian Army here, no matter how many MPs and representatives of the people. The way you address people in uniform is absolutely inappropriate. And it's not my planes, and it's not my army, and it's not my finances, it's the Army of the Republic of Serbia! And, with all due respect, to address them, at least in my presence. If you have a problem with professionalization, with her failure, I'll tell you, they're not mercenaries, they're professional members of the Serbian Army, like you're mercenaries at your job. You're doing your job, I guess, getting paid. They, people, do the same job and get paid. Still, there are people who volunteer to serve the military term. And, look, miracles, we have, just, right, an MP, Constantine Samofalov, who applied to the first generation to serve a voluntary military term. I'd like to see one of your nephews, nephews, son, sign up voluntarily, and then tell us what's going on in the army. That kind of energy you're pouring out here I won't let you, believe me! Perhaps the President of Parliament is a lady who respects you more than you should, but I will stand in the protection of all those people who work with me, and we will see at the sources who does well and who isn't. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50347	This was just an answer. No, there's no room for replicas. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50348	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS agrees that Serbia cannot be outside the international community, folksly speaking, cannot be out of the world. In general, we have no objection to Serbia participating in international peace missions. However, in the current circumstances, for reasons presented by my predecessors, I will talk about some, the SRS believes it is not justified for Serbian soldiers to participate in peacekeeping missions in the Republic of Congo, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Cyprus and the Middle East. First, when it comes to these two peacekeeping missions, in Somalia, I have to say that there are eyes to the fact that, besides Serbia, countries that have access to the sea, which are maritime countries and countries that are members of the NATO Pact, participate in these peacekeeping missions. Serbia, as we know, is neither. Secondly, in most of the peacekeeping missions that exist, the main word is run by the NATO Pact. I think it's a great hypocrisy, for the reason that the NATO Pact is an organization that has committed only the last ten years two crimes against peace. The first crime was committed in 1999, when an aggression against the SRJ was committed, later the aggression was legalised through a UN peacekeeping mission, and the second crime against peace was committed three years later by an aggression against Iraq. In both of these aggressions, several hundred thousand people were killed. Third, the practice from 1945 to today, and this practice has been particularly present in the past 20 years, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, says that most of these missions do not serve international peace, international law and international order, but serve to achieve certain imperialist objectives, primarily the United States, and in a more recent era of the NATO Pact and the EU. Fourthly, it is a fact that, under an international mission conducted under the auspices of the UN, part of the Republic of Serbia is under formal and practical occupation. Of course, I'm talking about Kosovo and Metohija. I'll give you just a few of the most important and large results of the UN Peace Mission. 250,000 Serbs were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. More than 3,000 Serbs were killed or kidnapped and killed. Several hundred Serb soldiers were taken to Albania and there, literally dismembered, for the sale of their organs. I now ask the question - who guarantees us and can anyone guarantee us, of course, that neither you can, that under the company of a particular peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, Liberia or Congo, the same or similar crimes happen? I know you're gonna say it's amazing and it sounds unreal. However, it was also unreal ten years ago that warned Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija that their relatives had been used alive to trade human organs. A few days after Dick Marty's report, we had a chance to see a UNMIK report seven-eight years ago that clearly states that there are these crimes. The report clearly shows that Western countries participating in the KiM occupation knew about these crimes, but they kept quiet because they were being carried out by their loved ones. I'm really asking -- what's going to happen, this is a hypothetical assumption, but it's not far from reality if something similar happens in one of these peace missions? I believe it will weaken Serbia's negotiating position when it comes to the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. That's one thing. Secondly, I think it will compromise Serbia's fight to prove the truth when it comes to crime against the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija. The fifth, to me, indeed, doesn't seem logical that one country whose territory is occupied, and it doesn't make any effort to end this occupation, I'm not saying that it should or shouldn't do it, I'm just saying one fact, it sends its soldiers and officers to the white world to free some other territory or to guard some other territory. The sixth, in today's debate, I don't know why children were mentioned. It was said by Mr. Sutanovac that the interest of Serbia is that all children in the world have a peaceful dream, a peaceful childhood and that is the fact. But it is also the fact that Serbia is most important to have a peaceful dream with children in Serbia. Who knows which way I draw your attention to the fact that thousands of young people in Kosovo and the Metohija of Serbian nationalities do not have a peaceful dream, they cannot go to school freely, they cannot play freely! I ask one question – will the departure of our troops to the Congo Peace Mission or Liberia in any way improve the position of Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija? Seven, this is what my predecessor Radisa Ilic spoke about, Serbia is in one heavy penny, the budget deficit is nearly two billion euros, and participation in these peace missions will cost the Republic of Serbia 380 million dinars. For those who do not understand this issue, it is the budget of a large number of municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. So you have more municipalities in the Republic of Serbia that have no budget that is greater than 300 million dinars. Now I ask the question – is it better to spend this money on the financing of sending our soldiers on a peacekeeping mission or is it better to use that money to solve the issue of 800,000 unemployed, 550,000 Serbian citizens, who, according to official statistics, live below the poverty line, or those 70,000 unfortunate people who survive each day by feeding in folk kitchens? Eight and a last, we as a state and a society, indeed, have to do a serious analysis and answer a few essential questions with that analysis. The first question - how much is sending our soldiers on a peace mission in the state interest? I'll look back here on two cases: the Côte d'Ivoire Peace Mission and the Peace Mission in Liberia. I am really asking a question – is there a state interest in Serbia to interfere with the internal affairs of these countries? What do we have to do with these states? For Liberia, I know that arms traffickers, some domestic tycoons, used ships and flags of Liberia for arms smuggling, and as far as the Ivory Coast is concerned, the only point of contact with Serbia is the great attacker of the Chelsea-Didi Drobo and the national team, who has played with the team of the Republic of Serbia in qualifications. The next question to be answered – how truly is participation in these missions in the role of international peace and implementation of international law, and how much is it in the role of achieving the interests of the NATO Pact and the United States? All that is happening now around our army, around our country, this headless landing in the NATO Pact, with me causing one suspicion that it may happen that we in recent times on the agenda have a proposal to refer our troops to a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran or elsewhere where Americans and the NATO Pact make some new human slaughter, that our people die for the profits of these American multinational oil companies. In the end, with a few words, I'll look back on this mission in Lebanon. We send six soldiers to Lebanon to find and remove mines. For Serbian citizens, I draw attention to the fact that in Serbia we have several hundred minefields. We also have these minefields in neighbouring BiH, both in the Republika Srpska and in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it is much more justified to remove mines in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina than in Lebanon. So we have in KIM, in parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which we call the interior of the Republic of Serbia, also dozens of hectares of land planted with cluster bombs and ammunition with poor uranium. I simply think that all capacities, including these six soldiers, are better suited to solving these mine-removing problems in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and neighbouring countries, rather than working in Lebanon and other world destinations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50349	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. You have 20 minutes left, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50350	I understand the need for why the government has proposed these two decisions, they are really in a relationship, and I think they've made a good move, because they're finally going to be in front of both domestic and global public precisely to determine who is in the National Assembly pro-European and found orientated and who is not. I think it'll be the best guideline for all our citizens and all our friends, even those who aren't exactly our friends abroad. I thus interpret it because the legal basis for such a decision exists, but we will see in voting day, what they say would sooner than Mr. Sutanovac take Serbia to NATO, what they say would sooner than Boris Tadic take Serbia to the EU, what Mr. Sutanovac is representing here, is precisely the object of something that is most European and most directed towards NATO. And I appreciate it that way and I respect that move of yours, because you're consistent and honest, and you've been persistent in what you've been doing for years. I don't like it, but it's already my problem, it's not the problem with this text that's on the table. Of course, the SRS is on one side, I'll talk about it a little bit later, but I'd point out some of the things you listed in these documents that I don't think exist. One finding that revolves in reason is that the defence of the country is achieved by participating in multinational operations. I don't get it. When a country is defended, it defends the territory of a country. I don't know why, with several thousand kilometers of five, six nurses, would defend the Republic of Serbia, and we here in Serbia are not able to ensure sovereignty and territorial integrity in the entire territory described by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which the people adopted. It's some kind of illogicality, but I'm interpreting that anything can be put there. Or, for example, the finding that the reference of our nurses to one of these countries is an element of our foreign policy shows that in relations with EU Member States, we will treat ourselves as equal partners. It can stand on paper, but in reality it's not like that. If that were the case, then Serbia would have long been an EU member. Now we're on some rebus status called "questioner." It is said that we are proving from these several nurses that Serbia would integrate into the EU. It's not like that, to be honest. It's a little bit more serious, though. Then one part avoids the word NATO because, rightly, it is not a popular word for us, in our country, and you say it opens up additional opportunities to actively engage in multinational operations under the auspices of the UN and the EU. I must draw attention to you that in all these texts, the word "UN" and "EU" only figure as something that is a political background, something that is like a cover, but very skillfully avoids the word NATO. That word is inevitable. Why is it inevitable? You see for yourself, I am going back to that first sentence again – you have made a good move because you are going to tear up the political scene, to know exactly who is where, but I must draw attention to you that the polls suggest that NATO is an extremely unpleasant organisation for most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am simply afraid that when you blindly represent these NATO interests, you are doing something in the most direct way against most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yet most said it was against the NATO Pact. Why is the majority against the NATO Pact? There's probably some valid reason. We remember on April 6, 1941, this building was bombed by the Germans, and before the war ended 1944, the Allies bombed Serbia, remember, and Leskovac and these other places. We remember these long-term peace operations. Let's remember, for example, the Republika Srpska Krajina, and before "Blash" the NATO Pact destroyed those radar systems. Let us remember the western Slavonia, Pacrac, the Enclaves, if not for one company of peacemakers, who knows if the rest of them would have stayed in that enclave. Let's remember Republika Srpska, let's remember what happened with the SRJ. I think those memories are very fresh among all citizens and they have a reluctance towards the NATO Pact, and especially when they know that the NATO Pact is forming a Kosovo Protection Force, they may have a different name, in the size of 2,500 soldiers, when KFOR pulls its troops from KIM, I don't know if they're under 10,000 now, where they demonstrate that KIM is no longer a zone of NATO-Pax interest. It is in another sense, since it controls the crisis, not only in the Balkans, but throughout Europe. It's this system of controlled crisis: when they need it, there's a crisis, when another crisis area opens up, then they settle down, freeze a little crisis, and then we go into big political thinking and thinking, "What if it were?" It is said here that we thus contribute to global, European, regional security, with respect for international law and peace. You know, it's hard to talk today about respect for international law when, for example, it's read by the deputy WikiLeaks, where it's said that someone from the administration has ordered to follow, say, the UN Secretary General; where he buys, which cards he uses, etc. After WikiLeaks, a man can only be blue in the chest area, swearing to international law and to seek peace. But you can see for yourself that reality is completely different. In conditions where, say, yesterday Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic explained here how beneficial it is when Serbia is in charge, and it seems to me that we talked about some loans yesterday, one was about 400m euros, that this is a ridiculous need, because if we don't, I realized that people are going to die on the street. Then we come to the conclusion that some funds should be allocated for participation in these operations. Of course, there's one part of what the UN is paying, etc., it's nothing controversial, you've shown it here, if it's true. However, the matter of priorities is raised. I believe, in conditions where we end the year, which is announced by statistics, that they estimate that from 31.12.2010 that somewhere between 35,000 and 40,000 people from Serbia will die more than they were born. When it comes to our social and economic situation, we don't have to go into deeper analysis, just to watch what central information shows publish about folk kitchens, layoffs, mafia accounts, etc., because it's already hard to talk about these black things of our daily life. Then the question is rightly asked: why do we break down to go, even if it should be with humble might, what do we do? What good is that for our country? You know, we had something called a peace mission, not exactly a peace mission, but a surveillance mission on KIM, it was that Walker. When the observation mission left KIM territory, they left everything to the terrorists Albanians, the Shiptars; jeeps, satellite phones. Then these terrorists worked as locators and informed NATO aviation and those American forces that were concentrated around the SRJ, where to bomb us, how to bomb us, how to achieve the best results, how to achieve the greatest disturbance in our public. If you don't believe me, watch some of the Internet broadcasts from The Hague and you will see that the representatives of the peacekeeping missions very often appear as witnesses at the trial and admit that these peacekeeping missions were not quite a peace mission, but they open their souls and say -- we have reports that, for example, when it comes to Republika Srpska and BiH, the Americans at Tuzla Airport were delivering their weapons. Well, then we're getting data from WikiLeaks that foreign states, major forces, violated the embargo, armed one side, the other side. Well, then, we have a kind of affair in Austria with the Alpe-Adria Bank, you remember, because they were also a valve armed by both the Croats and the Slovenians at the time of the ban, and that Geider was very significant there, and the bank had nothing to do with it, so he disappeared under mysterious circumstances. I'm saying all this telegraphically so I can just remind the audience that we still have to be pretty careful. Yes, as members of the UN, we've never been excluded, we've only been suspended in one period, I have to correct that, since I heard that wrong information this morning. The state can also avoid that obligation when it is in such a situation as the Republic of Serbia. The evidence for this situation is also these powerful observers of the World Bank, the IMF, which shows that there are justifiable reasons for our army to be on our territory alone. I agree that a decision was made a few years ago, so now it is not important whether the resolution, declaration or decision, where it is indicated, declares that the Republic of Serbia wants to have that degree of neutrality. I agree that the question is whether we can be neutral, but I'm absolutely sure that our direction is not towards the NATO Pact, but towards something that is really in expansion, and it's called the ODKB. I'll talk about it a little bit later, because that too has observer status, in the UN General Assembly, since 2 December 2004, one perspective military alliance, a defence system, which wants to secure a security zone at the so-called Euro-Asian land mass, we're in their plans, and that's what I have to say. There is a great mood in the Republic of Serbia to join this defence organization, to protect our interests, if nothing else, then because the Russians never bombed us. So they never bombed us, they always helped. Although they are now in a very unpleasant situation, you heard it yourself, and it is a fairy tale – well, we Russians cannot be bigger Serbs than Serbs. What's this about? Well, you know, if very irresponsible people represent state interests with positions of the government of the Republic of Serbia in some international institutions and then secretly give consent to promoters and Western politicians, well, the Russian side, the Chinese and these others hear that Serbia has agreed, they will not object. And that's our tragedy that hit us, where there's just some stuff going on, and it's said, "Look, look, they've accepted it too." Well, they did not accept it, but they accepted the will of representatives of the government from the Republic of Serbia. This was the case when Eulex came, as was the case with the General Assembly and the advisory opinion resolution, where the EU dictated, our representatives informed all those who supported us in the fight for the preservation of KIM in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Well, then people said, if you had agreed, why should we now be greater Catholics than the pope? That's the story that bothers us, gathers us together. I am inclined to believe that, since it is quite certain that these benefits that are expected for our country from the involvement and participation of our members of the military and police in these peace operations are not realistic, especially for the MUP, says – they will learn electronic business. Find another reason, don't define it like this. He says -- he's going to learn the electronic business of those five, six cops who leave. I guess we have other places to learn how to work on a computer, etc. But, come on, I don't want to banalize these very things. I know the problem with the strategic policy definition that is dominant today in Serbia. I see that there are some problems in the Assembly, that it is not so dominant, but what I am sure about citizens, this policy is no longer passing, it is the seventy percent of citizens who do not see Serbia as a member of the NATO Pact. Someone will say – well, we are in the Partnership for Peace. And Russia is in the Partnership for Peace. Russia also has other specific relations with the NATO Pact. It's a NATO pact - Russia. Well, Russia also has a so-called Shanghai Co-operation Organisation with China. Something's going on, something's changing. We need to get in line in time. The people felt that we needed to turn the other way. I'd like to go that way, and then finally I get the impression that the development of the military industry and the export of weapons might be that, if we want to achieve it, we should be present in peace operations and I see in that relationship, because between the SDPR and the Ministry of the last few years, we've made a strong connection. You don't know who works at the SDPR anymore, who works at the Ministry, used to be in the SDPR, came to the Ministry now. The Ministry moved to SDPR. The SDPR probably now wants to regain its influence in dedicated production. I remember there's also some Chupici, some weapons liverants and some banks, but I have no reason to claim it now. I'm just stating that as a possibility, I get the impression that this ghastly movement towards our participation in these peace operations actually has two objectives. The first goal is to bring NATO closer to the pact and the second goal, that, probably less or more visible liverents under the heading of development of the dedicated industry, well, the best export results are in the export of ammunition and other weapons, etc., so since there is a hunger for money, then people say, well, let it go like that. I think it might be another variant that existed there as an alternative, but take care of one thing. There's always a country's policy for the benefit of the citizens. If citizens are not for the NATO Pact, if citizens think that some other vital things for this people are priority, and above all I mean health care, social ageing, the development of our economy, the restoration of that economy, etc., then, excuse me, please, that we are in charge and that we are sending at the same time to these allegedly peaceful operations, I don't think that this is the interest of this people, that the people do not support it. How the citizens are going to plead, I don't know, at this point maybe it doesn't matter that much. However, I believe that our right path to one permanent security is the ODKB. I hope that on March 23rd, Mr Putin, if not someone else, will surely repeat what Mr. Medvedev said two years ago to Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. That's when he came to talk about the new defense system. I think that defense system is better suited to us since he's in some kind of expansion. It's also a regional military and security organization. It has a UN-guaranteed status, has partnership with the NATO Pact, but at the same time makes it clear to the NATO Pact that it must not cross any enlargement lines. We can't run some policy that would be so much in the field of defence on our own, we should be aware of it, we're not that player, nor that factor, we don't have those potentials, but if we're going to have to choose the side, then this 'Eastern side', especially because that system is being created to ensure security in the Euro-Asian land space, where it's practically our place. We don't have anything with the Atlantic, we don't need to bond with that side of the world that bombed us multiple times, so they even boasted they didn't have any decisions. They simply do not have to do anything when they need to carry out their own force and purpose. We'll have to take care of both KIM and territorial integrity. I believe that these two decisions are deeply intruding at the question of preserving the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, because participation in peacekeeping missions cannot be in a more important place than the establishment of the government of the Republic of Serbia in its entire territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50351	Mr. Minister, do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50352	On behalf of the members of the Ministry and the Army and of all those soldiers, officers and officers who will participate in peacekeeping missions, I would like to thank those MPs who have shown enough awareness and support their efforts to fight for peace in the world, so that it will be better in Serbia as well. I would say to Mr. Krasic that I don't pay much attention to the polls he's talking about. If I were to look at the polls he's talking about, I'd have to tell you that you're at a level of statistical error, too, so I wouldn't have anything to say to you, because in those same polls, you're not a member of parliament, your party is below censorship, but I respect you as if the polls are better. I would like to thank again to all those who have worked on the proposal of this law, the Ministry of Interior and to tell you to make sure that, despite not getting a report on our peacekeeping missions that we have participated in, you can be proud of all the members of the Serbian Army and the MUP who have been trying to participate in something called global peace with all the countries of the world. We have heard that there are over 50 to 55 countries in many of these missions, which means that we are not independent, we are not isolated, we are not solo in any way, we want to be part of the modern, modern world and be proud of ourselves and our army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-22-0.u50353	Thank you, Mr. Minister. There are no elements for replication. Since there are no more word statements on the lists of MPs, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 96 has ever taken advantage of it. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the day to vote. And to you, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, to you and your associates, I thank you for your participation in the work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 78 MPs. To determine precisely the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, and that there is a condition necessary for work under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. that more than 84 MPs are present. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mirko Chikiriz and Aleksandra Jankovic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT AND APPLICATION OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY You have received a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've received a report from the Administrative Board. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates per parliamentary group is the following: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliament group SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 Plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group Forward Serbia – 26 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliamentary group DSS- Vojislav Kostunica – 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Mission group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Djuro Peric, MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP of the SPS-JS, MP Veroljub Arsic, MP of the Progress Serbia Group. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does a representative of the Proposer, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want a word? (Yes)
