ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62429	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 Members of the Parliament are present. To determine the quorum needed to work, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards from the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 86 MPs are present in the hall with their identification cards in MPs' units and that there are another number of MPs present in the hall, so that there are a Rules of Procedure established working conditions. I remind the National Assembly that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in its first position that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs in order to carry out the function of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address for up to five minutes, Tuesday and Thursday, and immediately after the session is opened and the number of MPs attending the session is determined, and before moving to a further debate. Do any of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the National Ambassador Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62430	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, we heard yesterday from the president of the Republic that Kosovo Serbs and their representatives will be involved in expert groups to prepare the next round of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. My question and request for an explanation is this: did the President of the Republic announce yesterday the government's decision on such a matter or did he declare his decision through the media, walking between the book fair stands, given to the government? Although this is an important thing, these are not the same things because the government is leading this dialogue, not the President of the Republic, and we are learning from the President of the Republic that Kosovo Serbs will be involved in these expert groups. In fact, a lot of things since the beginning of this dialogue have been irregularly and in procedural terms, especially in the context of content, and here we find a complete irregularity. So, with the book fair, we find out about one important thing. Speaking of which, I'd say next. Namely, that proposal is to say in place, however, it came very late. As you know, five or six rounds of talks have been held and most of the topics have been completed with some kind of decision, though unclear and unfavourable for the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. There are three other topics left, so I don't repeat them now, for, as they say, the first half of November. So, at the end of this process, the government or the president, however, are now calling on representatives of Kosovo Serbs to join expert teams to prepare our delegation for dialogue. It is too late and is therefore subject to one really fierce criticism. Although we, the DSS, were against this dialogue, if it was already started, it was extremely normal for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to be represented, not only on expert teams, because they, as you know, do not have experts on many things, but in any case in a delegation for the talks themselves. Had it not been for them to lose their ID cards and their documents on paper, of course, that the delegation that led the dialogue proposed that those Kosovo and Metohija could only move along with the documents issued by Pristina, it would not have happened that the cadastres that were removed from Kosovo and Metohija were returning to Kosovo and Metohija, would not have happened to exchange data from the parent books and a lot of other things. Finally, it would not have been possible for our delegation to conclude a discussion on the stamp of Kosovo customs, without the topic being completed. When negotiating a matter, it must be negotiated to the end. It is also important to know that every coincidence of any possible decision and these conconsequences are always the subject of serious negotiations. So if you're making a decision or making a deal with someone, you need to know the ultimate consequences of how that decision is applied. As you know, a decision was made on the appearance of the seal, but not on who would use the seal at customs crossings, i.e. at the administrative crossings. You see, that's what this whole situation has been about in Kosovo at these two administrative crossings and in all of northern Kosovo, just as everyone interpreted the look of the customs stamp and the consequences of its use in their own way. Thaci interpreted it in his own way and understood the whole thing that Albanian customs officers and Albanian police officers would use the seal. The Serbs understood it the other way, and this thing happened. So, this dialogue is extremely unserious and it is a wine of all these worst events, so this question is raised, given the arbitrary nature of such statements as the President of the Republic of Serbia said, and also the procedural incorrectness of the whole process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62431	Is anyone else answering their word to apply their right to Article 286? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I have to ask again what the answer to the question is. I even got a promise from your predecessor, the vice president, that he would personally urinate for your answers to arrive, but there's no answer. What about five billion euros that owe about 17 enterprises in Serbia for unpaid taxes and contributions? It's just amazing that that answer doesn't come for more than three months. But that would be amazing for a normal country only, since this country is who it is, then it's perfectly normal. When the state is able to deceive its citizens, related to Kosovo and Metohija, what should take care of parliamentary issues and answers to these questions? There's another problem, he doesn't know what's worse, whether he doesn't get an answer or when he gets an answer. It's simple, maybe this other possibility is better. I have asked the question of the Government of the Republika Srpska Assembly -- what will it do to facilitate the economic situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, given the economic crisis we had in 2008, on the economic crisis that we expect and which is taking place, but a new blow is expected at the end of this year and early next year? I got an answer from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Now there is a programme for incentive, development programme, measures and mitigation programme, the programme of this, the programme of one, blah, blah, blah and finally say this - we stress that there is a plan to set up a development bank, which will significantly improve financial support for the business of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Well, good people. Is there anyone normal in there? They're talking about programs, and those programs must be supported. Who can support it? Well, the development bank, and they're considering setting up this development bank in some future time. They also say -- regarding the problem, the collection, the demand for small and medium-sized enterprises, we point out that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has recognised the problem, and that it has launched an initiative in co-operation with other competent authorities to address it. Well, isn't this a shame? Well, do you know how many small and medium-sized enterprises these tycoon firms owe, who charge these taxes and contributions? They don't pay nine, ten months for people, and now you're considering the possibility of these claims being charged. Well, this is just amazing. Statistics, or reality, as you like to say, are very black. By September 2008, January – September, 2,170 companies were shut down. At the same time this year, 10,800 companies were shut down. That's five times that. Don't help them anymore, let people work alone, you destroy them, especially those who hold this Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, because what they wrote is a program. practically their party programme. I also suggest that they change the name to be called the United Serb regions and that they say a long time ago – Mladjan Dinkic, and I think it's better because of the abbreviations, when they look and read there, they will understand how much the programme and the parties are worth, and as far as godmothers are concerned, they don't have to buy me a shirt.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62433	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word to exercise their right under Article 286? If so, please sign in. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that it was prevented that the session was attended by the president of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Finance Minister, and Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, invited the sittings to attend both Miodrag Djidić and Dusan Nikezić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mirjana Bičin, advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Public Debt Administration, Anka Gajic, Director of the Department for Sale of State and Social Capital at the Deposit Insurance Agency, Aleksandar Vulovic, Director of the Office for Games at the Ministry of Finance. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled and uniform search of 10, 11 and 12 agenda points, a common principle and single review of the draft law on the regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors – the user of public funds for commitments, and on foreign loans, or loans; the proposal for a framework loan agreement for the allocation of individual loans between KFW Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia as an agent and the Proposal for a law on gambling. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on proposals for the agenda under points 10, 11 and 12, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). The rules of procedure of the application for a word may be submitted until the opening of a common principle, single principle or search of the agenda item, and I ask you to submit a list of the names of MPs interested in participating in the debate. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Zoran Bortic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group and MP Vladan Jeremic, the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle and uniform search on the draft law on the regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors – the users of public funds for commitments, by foreign loans, or loans; the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a framework loan agreement for the allocation of individual loans between KFW Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia as an agent and the draft law on gambling. I ask if the representative, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic wants a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62434	Dear People's MPs, when you proposed these laws, you received a detailed explanation for each of them. That's why I don't want to explain them in more detail. But I find it necessary in a few sentences to refer to each of these three laws and point to its most significant elements. The first law to regulate relations between the Republic of Serbia and debtors, when it was handed over to the Assembly, has experienced some kind of public interest, because it is quite wrongly interpreted, that this is about increasing public debt and that the state is now taking over the obligations of some public enterprises and instead of being in debt, it becomes obliged. Actually, the truth here is quite different. This law actually allows the book of debtors to introduce the state that is factual. This is about debts incurred before 1990, so debts from 20 years ago and some 30 years ago, and these debts were discussed by the Republic of Serbia in the context of a discussion with the Paris and London Care Club in 2002, 2003, while the Republic of Serbia has taken the appropriate discount and has been serving them regularly. So they're already in public debt and those numbers you have. However, these obligations, when it comes to end-users, i.e. businesses, remain in their books, so that their books are now run with great obligations and results are shown that are unrealistically reflecting their current business. With this in mind, this law has nothing to do with the task but to define the way these debts will be in debt books, so practically to execute their write-off, and otherwise, the state of Serbia has already included in its obligations and in the service of these debts to foreign lenders. So that's the essence of this law, not any increase in public debt. When it comes to the second law, i.e. on the ratification of one credit line to be obtained by KfW. It's an extremely favourable credit line. It is a 100m-euro amount with conditions, an interest rate between 1.5% and 3%, a five to seven-year repayment period, and mainly this funding will be used for local infrastructure and some other less energy efficiency projects, also at the bar. Finally, it was necessary to amend this new law in view of the fact that this area has experienced major expansion in the last few years, not only in Serbia but also in other countries, and it was necessary to pass a more modern law that would ensure market liberalisation, the introduction of electronic access to gambling, but also to introduce electronic surveillance of game directors and finally point to the social responsibility of the editors in relation to minors and gambling addicts. So that's essentially the essence of these three laws. I call on you to influence their correction through constructive discussion or to give them support, and ultimately to vote, or I call on you to adopt these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62435	Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62436	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Government with associates, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, a set of laws on whose proposals we are discussing today will contribute to the well-being of the regulatory areas and that the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and these laws be brought into line with applicable standards in the international community, especially with standards in those of Serbia's interest in membership, such as the EU. In this sense, the legislative proposals which are the subject of today's debate are a step closer, which is bringing Serbia closer to meeting the standards that our international partners put before it. However, in my deep confidence by adopting these laws, we will create good assumptions for the establishment of a legal order that will consistently strengthen legal certainty and define the rights and obligations of all subjects involved in the processes that these legal proposals regulate. In order to obtain the optimal quality of these legislative proposals in its final form, it is necessary that in the constructive debate of all MPs, through the consideration of these proposals and amendments, we come up with a solution that will contribute to the development of the legal order in our country as a whole, and in particular to strengthening legal certainty and freedom and the rights of citizens. To a good extent that all participants in today's debate on these legal proposals will contribute to the best solutions, allow me to refer to the drafts of these laws on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group through several segments and point to the elements and solutions that these legislative proposals offer. Proposal for a law on regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors of the beneficiaries of public funds for foreign loans or loans are set out in Articles 97 and 17. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that the Republic of Serbia regulates the legal position of economic operators, the monetary and banking system, as well as other relations in this area of interest for the Republic. In addition to the uprising in the Constitution, the basis for the adoption of this law rests on a number of other legal regulations governing this area. One of the basic reasons why this law is passed is also based on the need to regulate the payment of debts and liabilities that banks and business entities had towards increditators, which were created before the introduction of UE sanctions to our country. In this way, debtors and guarantors of banks and business entities made a commitment to the Republic of Serbia instead of to the investors. By establishing such normative solutions, the state as a trustee is in a much more favourable position because it is provided with full income from the collection of these claims, but also the control of the procedure and how to regulate these claims. The state will be in a position to assess its interest and determine the way and model to regulate relations with each economic operator, to assess the importance of the economic operator, its status and ownership relationship, particularly in light of the fact that funds from the budget are used. The basic problem that this law requires the Republic of Serbia to address is to regulate mutual debt-trust relations with indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, by freeing them from obligations by incredits created prior to the introduction of UN sanctions, which are recorded in their balance sheets and which these economic operators cannot service from current revenues. The law aims to free the company's debt service obligations, whose business has public importance for the entire system and will ensure the smooth functioning of the Republic of Serbia to allocate funds from the budget for them and to issue guarantees for new debts. At the same time, the law will regulate internal debts on the basis of commitments that the Republic of Serbia has made towards innovators, which alleged debtors do not serve. It is especially important that this law contributes to the so-called so-called Law. cleaning the balance sheet of those legal entities. It should be noted that the application of this law will not contribute to new burdens on citizens and businesses and that it applies to existing economic operators, indirect budget users, and will not stimulate the emergence of new economic operators with such problems. The law confirming the loan framework contract for the allocation of certain loans between KFV - Frankfurt in Main and NBS as an agent, the Republic of Serbia shall fulfil the reasons set out in Article 5(2). Public Debt Act and Article 3. Law on the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia. The budget law in Article 3 provides that the Republic of Serbia will approve a loan project with KFV for a loan to finance small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, through a 100m-euro business bank. By adopting this emergency law, it is based on the fact that the Republic of Serbia, the 2011 Budget Law, provided that it would approve projects with KFV, for credit for financing small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia through 100m-euro business banks. The adoption of this law will put into office a provision of a loan agreement that will ensure that credit lines reach those entities in our country they are intended to receive. It should be recalled that the individual provisions of the loan contract are very precise and that all entities in the contract are placed in a position to implement the provisions of the contract, including the purpose of the lending of credit funds, on very precise criteria. The state of Serbia will fulfil its obligations by adopting this law, which it has agreed to comply with its normative rules and strengthen its normative order. It also opens the perspectives for opening new credit arrangements for our business entities, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which, by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, are such credit lines and envisaged. Dear fellow MPs, the third legislative proposal we are discussing today is the draft law on gambling. Although the Republic of Serbia has legally regulated this area of social life since July 2004, and since January 2005, the Ministry of Finance has acted as an organ for the Games as an organ of this ministry, the sudden changes, both in the areas of technology that monitor gambling, and in increasing the various forms and forms of this social activity, have affected the need for the existing 2004 law to be changed and adapted to growing changes, which was made in December 2010, when this National Assembly adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Games. However, as a result of the fact that in this area, huge financial resources have been inverted and that in just five years since the gambling fee, more than 301m euros have been achieved, and the number of payment places of gambling directors has risen from 300 to 1,267 in December, while the number of automatics has increased from 5,026 to 17. 982, it is unequivocally shown that it is a significant activity that triggers huge financial resources and shows the rise line of development. It has shown that this expansion of gambling in our country, by the number of subjects participating in this activity and by the number of technological solutions that appear daily on the gambling market, is not possible to monitor existing legal solutions in this area and that the state of Serbia cannot monitor the charge of enormous increases in the various forms of this type of business, which leaves it for huge financial resources, which would greatly contribute to the completion of the Republic's budget. In addition to the above-mentioned normative solutions that have so far regulated gambling, it has been shown in practice that the undefined and exceeded and organisational structure of the gambling management, which is confirmed by the problems in the practice of the daily work of this body. Therefore, the new law on gambling will pave the way for the Republic of Serbia to standardise this area in a comprehensive and transparent manner and allow social responsibility in carrying out this action. The new law will ensure the protection of minors and the prevention of disease addiction among students in gambling. With these solutions, our country takes on social responsibility among the first in the region to organise activities and protect participants, i.e. citizens and minors, which is best followed by the experience and normative of EU practices. Starting with an analysis of the existing situation in the organisation of gambling in our country and the control done by the Republic of Serbia through the competent authorities in this area, especially in the field of field control and surveillance, gambling directors, as well as in the area of collection of contributions, it has been shown that without new legal solutions it is not possible to fix the situation in this area. This results in much less revenue in the budget, an enormous increase in some editors and a set of different forms of gambling, especially electronics that cannot be controlled according to existing regulations. As a result, the new gambling law that we are discussing today will help to significantly increase budget revenues from the organisation of gambling, which will affect more efficient, more balanced budgetary stability. The law provides for electronic control and control of the implementation of its provisions, and it is particularly important that the new law eliminates illegal gamemakers who currently have many and who cannot be sanctioned by existing legal solutions. It is particularly important that the new law has solutions for modern technological processes that open up unsuspecting opportunities to organise games on an electronic basis and that it opens in a very liberal and transparent way the Serbian market to organise these activities, but at the same time precisely determines how games are controlled and organised through electronic communications and defines sanctions for offenders. Especially why this legal proposal is significant in relation to existing legal solutions is the introduction of the social responsibility I have already mentioned to you. We are witnessing the reality that more and more participants are different forms of gambling, especially booklets and machines, underage faces and children of school age. Their dealing with these activities not only destroys their socio - psychological characteristics, not only prevents them from learning and working and creates a false idea that wealth can occur without learning and working but, more dangerously, forms a severe disease of addiction and forms a socio-deviant personality of a socio-harmful profile such as junkies, alcoholics and others. The new gambling law recognises these acute social phenomena and finds adequate normative solutions for their preventive elimination. I therefore believe that this law represents a significant step forward in the overall regulation of a very important area of social action and that it will have a significant impact, not only in strengthening control, in gambling, in increasing budget revenues from this form of business, but, in my opinion, it will be much more important to prevent the emergence of deviant behaviour, disease of addiction, etc., and to prevent and abuse of children, in order to make profit. The fight for justifiable profit should not be justified in the abuse of children, no matter what name it was called, and in whatever circumstances the different forms of games are, fortunately, packed by the wishes of their organizers. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote on these proposed legislative solutions in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62437	Fourteen minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62438	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we adopted here in this House only a few months ago, in December of last year, a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling, and when the proponent first stated that this is a legal solution that needs to be passed for the sake of harmonisation, as they like to say, positive legislation with EU member states, I thought it was one of those brilliant legal solutions coming from the promoter more precisely than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that after only a few months we would come to consider today, it is likely that a whole new law on gambling will be adopted by the Assembly. Why? Because the existing system of field control and control of the preparation of special games is necessary to change completely, because it has shown major shortcomings. What's interesting, and I would say ironically, is that the new law on gambling will deal with social responsibility. The definition of social responsibility is interesting, because it is obvious that social responsibilities do not exist for the situation current on KIM, but that is why there is a law on gambling. What is evident is that, when citizens are, just as in Serbia the word is unsatisfactory and unhappy then it should not be surprising that salvation is trying to find in games of chance. The organisation of such games is an activity of some public importance and general interest and the creation of such games is the right of a country which in this particular case has been transferred exclusively to the Serbian State lottery and simply cannot be characterized differently, but as an apparent existence of a monopoly. Unfortunately, the fact that a person who earns from these prize games is clearly ignored and must have responsibility if something goes wrong if the law is not carried out properly. Here it is, that is, a kind of objective responsibility, and if it is well known whose portfolio is, who organizes the games, if it can be profited well, and clearly it is, then, of course, there must be a legal obligation and responsibility to bear consequences for everything that happens. It is that as a people, we don't like to remember very long, but everyone, of course, is in a fresh memory of everything that accompanied the work of the aforementioned Serbian State Lottery, especially as Bojan Kristo led it. What is worrying when it comes to this subject is the data that speak of about three and a half million citizens in Serbia playing some kind of gambling game and that according to some statistical parameters about every fifth person who shows interest in the game in some way becomes a potential pathological gambler, which basically means that in Serbia, nearly 700,000 citizens live at risk of what I was talking about. What is the obligation of the state and what has the state done on this matter? Well, let's say nothing or almost nothing. There are some examples in the surrounding countries where 5% and even 30%, as much as there is in Greece, stand out for prevention. In Serbia, of course, he does not think that way, and no single dinar for it is singled out, not in the Ministry of Health, not in the government, and not ultimately in the Serbian State lottery. Obviously, this does not present any particular and particular problem for them. The draft law on gambling, which is now in the assembly procedure, according to the SRS, does not essentially change anything, or brings nothing new, because what is the basic problem, which we talked about in the debate on changes and additions to the law, is that there is obviously still a monopoly of the State Lottery of Serbia. This law confirms that this is particularly about betting on the Internet, although some practical experiences from the world show that the state could not make a good living anywhere. Also, when it comes to something that is supposed to have this positive effect on the adoption of such a law, the story of course is about increasing revenues to the budget. At first, I just left out to say that it is obvious that there are no bigger problems in this country and more priorities than the adoption of one such law for which, by the way, implementation requires additional funding from the budget and an estimated amount of about 250 to 300,000 euros. But, well, it's already a matter of assessing those who still represent power in the state of Serbia, in what way to spend these funds. So what was interesting was the previous time and today, we could hear, though, very summed up and short, and this law is kind of being brought into context with taxation. One simple question I would like to ask is whether revenues, which will increase in the name of taxation through this law on gambling, will the increase in revenue next year from the application of this law at all be enough to cover possibly just some of the curriculative differences that the government pays on a variety of basis from the budget? How much revenue is this country going to be able to make from the start of its application through such a law on gambling, and again at a time when it might be much more valid to discuss next year's budget law, the situation in the north of KIM and some accompanying laws relating to taxation? The very story of these tax reforms is a story that will be nothing, because, of course, there are essentially radical reforms that are necessary to really do something about it. So for any benefit or effect of such a law, I essentially think that neither the citizens, not even those on the market in this area, will have, because virtually apart from any additional taxation of other benefits absolutely no. After all, we can discuss both the way and where money is spent, or the budget that this purpose is earned. It is evident that, in times of great crisis, gambling is one of the most profitable activities. Unfortunately, people are out of a job. Many are without a bankruptcy. Some entrepreneurs fail. There's no money in the labour market, and there's an entire army of labourable people who can't get a job and start a single life, start a family, etc. In such conditions, hope that, despite everything bad, something will happen and good, that happiness will smile, hence the mass playing games of chance. In 2004, we first passed the Law on Games of Happiness. He didn't change until last December, when changes and additions were adopted. Here, today in October 2011, we have a practically new law that will essentially change nothing. What's interesting is that for those six or seven years, the number of raffles that existed at the time of the adoption of the original law from 300 was reduced to only nine, and of 3,500, the number of sports bookies, today is only 1,200. The question that logically imposes is what actually happened here? Where are the people who worked in them? How many of them did I just mention, either on the black market or at the unemployment bureau? Does anyone think about whether it may be in the whole story and how much damage the state budget and whether there is a question of responsibility for those who led to it? So, these latest proposed legislative changes are practically seriously threatening to put out the one part, the rest of the market, because, again, Serbia's state lottery, by taking the monopoly to stage certain types of gambling, by expanding it to some other kind of gambling, has practically only made it more difficult for the editors. Business opportunities are shrinking, although here among the reasons it is said that even this business effect will increase. Of course not. All of this points to the fact that this is one in a series of unacceptable and inadmissible legal solutions. The importance of only the other income editors here says that all the relevant participants in this story were involved in the drafting of the law. I don't think that's true either. Therefore, the importance of the other editors is also covered by the fees prescribed by the Law on Games on Happiness and the fact that in 2010 alone, their participation was as much as 47% of the total income on that basis. Of course, from there and the logical question why is such an important factor lagging behind when making such a law? The answer can be drawn if, again, there is a fact that a monopoly exists in this area. In particular, it is a symptomatic part that refers to gambling through telecommunications. I think that in December, too, we presented this information, that Serbia's State lottery had the opportunity to use it for about six years. Based on various grounds of non-use of this right, even the damage measured by several million euros has been done. What is particularly interesting is that a year ago this right was passed on to a foreign contractor in a completely non-transparent way, so no competition, no tender, and that domestic operators were not even informed, let alone that co-operation was offered. Hence, there are also very dangerous definitions that contain certain members of the law mentioned as regards adding a wording similar to the game, etc., which in the SRS only will allow us to further expand the monopoly, the absolute monopoly to the classic gambling owned by the Serbian State lottery. One of the most illogical and drastic changes in this proposal for a new law on gambling is certainly a new system of taxis, compensations and tax burdens. Because of the public, I'm going to give some of the most impressive examples and what that translation can mean. Therefore, because of these provisions, the contractors will be forced to reduce the number of counters to only one, to fire extra workers, to drastically reduce the quality of service, i.e. the comfort of players, because under this new law, each counter will be specifically taxed as a pay-out, as a separate place, and not a whole place of payment, which is otherwise a world practice. Also, I will highlight this percentage of the sports betting fee that has increased from 5 per cent to 15%, which, with a changed tax base, makes it an increase of about 50%, etc., etc. All in all, it is obvious that this law contains neither justice nor logic, because it is motivated solely by the fact that the state practically retains that large part of what the players put on. The purpose and way to use all these funds is something we could spend our days on. The problem we were talking about, too, and I mentioned earlier, concerns gambling through SMS, SMS lottery, and it is interesting that this legal solution is not even a regulated mechanism, or that there is no mechanism for direct players to realize how much money has been collected, which is the rules of the game under which such lottery takes place, and therefore it is totally unacceptable to bring one such solution, because it is obviously based on the damage of all those involved in gambling. The goal is clear when it comes to the promoter, which is to increase the share of the tax, to increase the income of the organisers. Of course, it's that state of affairs at the expense of people who, I'm going back to the beginning of the story, with this kind of politics and this kind of state, are being brought to their senses that their only hope is that they eventually play and get some lucky game. I think that objectively all Serbian citizens have the opportunity to gain something and become much happier than they are now, which is the upcoming election and departure of this regime from power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62439	It was used 15 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, I would like to inform you that they are in agreement with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principle and uniform search of the application for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted by the SPS parliamentary group – the JS and the SRS parliamentary group, so we move to the part of the session when Members of Parliament have the right to speak, and by order and applications for a word in the joint principle and uniform search of the proposals for the laws referred to in points 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda. The first reported MP is Djordje Milicevic, followed by the folk MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Since MP Djordje Milicevic has an obligation outside the hall, when he is finished he will have the right to speak, because he has been declared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, then MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are having a united debate on three draft laws, which means that the ruling majority has damaged the MPs who are interested in talking about them in two-thirds of the time. There have been cases in this House when we talked about 36 joint agendas. Much scarier than that, the same majority of voting buttons adopt laws that directly harm citizens. Of these three that we're talking about today, two of them are like that, which means that on one occasion only two-thirds of the harmful laws. It's happening here in the National Assembly, and there's someone in the south of our country trying to take our territory. All better than better. The first of these three laws is the law on regulating the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtor of public funds users for commitments on foreign loans, i.e. loans. Its adoption will exempt debtors who owe 654.8m euros, 59m dollars and 627.3000 Swiss francs. So, all together somewhere around 700 million euros. Seven are in debt, and the largest among them are "The Railway of Serbia" and "The Ways of Serbia", two public enterprises that are among the biggest losers within public enterprises. The railways will write down 181.8m euros and 15.1m dollars and 464.8m euros and 43.3m euros in roads. One part of the argument relating to the reasons for the adoption of this law is a major absurdity, and I will quote that part: "Being in mind that there are companies whose functioning is of public importance and importance for the overall system, the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the allocation of significant funds from the budget, guarantees for the new duties of these companies in the country and abroad." The state does what it does, then takes over as a guarantee of commitment to itself, and what is done in these and other public enterprises, the public has the opportunity to inform each day and, unfortunately, all this is information that raises hair on the head. To remind us that the SRS parliamentary group insisted that the government had been forced to disclose in March 2009 the salaries of managers in public enterprises and agencies and how much salaries were paid to the presidents and members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards. I'm not going to talk about other companies and agencies right now, it would take quite a while, I'm just going to take out the data on these two companies. In February 2009, he received a net salary of 202,383 dinars, his deputies, three at 128,800, monthly than the salary of the assistant director, six in February 2009, amounted to 95,852 dinars, while directors of the Directorate received 103,627 dinars in February 2009, the directors of the sector of 82,197 dinars. According to data from the Serbian Railway website, the general director had then three deputies and six assistants, while the company had two directorates and 22 sectors. The chairman of the board of directors paid 54,554 dinars and members of 36,369 dinars. We had the opportunity to find out through certain media outlets in August this year that the employees of the Railways of Serbia paid tuition so that people could study and perfect themselves at a higher school and that about 8,000,000 dinars went to these purposes in 2008. If this wasn't true, probably so far under the Information Act, which otherwise represents another group of these authorities, the media who published this would have been punished. Given that there is no punishment, there is no reason why we do not believe in the truth about this claim, but now it is present in the Parliament and the Prime Minister, so he can tell us if he may have information that the cost of the Public Undertaking "Serb Railway" has been paid to study employees at a higher school in the said amount? To all those who have proposed this law to discuss it today at the National Assembly, I refer to the question – do you think that parents, whose children are studying in higher schools and paying tuitions of 80,000 dinars, as in Ćupria at the High School of Medicine, are 49,000 at the High Business in Leskovec, 60,000 at the High Business in Novi Sad, the School of Fine Arts and Applied Arts is 88,5 000, etc. Do you think these people are crazy about paying taxes and full budgets, to cover the debts of public enterprises in which employees are paid to study the cost of enterprises, and the quality of services provided by the Public Undertaking of Serbia, we recently had the opportunity to listen here in the National Assembly, when the Law on Railways was discussed. For the sake of time, I won't repeat, I'm just going to say another mess, of course, for those of you who know what a mess is. In February 2009, Serbia's second major loser, the director had a salary of 159,583 dinars, while at the end of 2008, it was 144,000, and at that point, the company had a loss, a multi-annual debt of 30 billion dinars. As for the second draft law on today's agenda, its adoption will make us more in charge of 100m euros. If you didn't have to cover the debts of those who spend money to spend it, you wouldn't have to re-indebt yourself. You would have seven times more resources for seven times more projects in both energy efficiency and municipal infrastructure programmes. Analyzing the effects of the law, the promoter said he does not expect the application of this act to cause additional costs to citizens and businesses. Deny the zoo million euros, means you don't have that money, and means you have to be in charge of funding some other projects. If this borrowing extra cost to citizens and businesses, please explain what it is? Another important thing about these loans from the German Development Bank. In Article 1(1), 2), it also states: "The borrower represented by the agent directs the total amount of individual loans to selected partner banks etc.". This means that the National Bank of Serbia will give the approved banks money to finance certain projects through them. About that, my question is, how are these partner banks going to be selected? That's what I'm asking because those from the Intect Bank have already arrived to boast that 90 per cent of the funds will go through their bank, which means 90m euros through the Intect and the other 10% through other banks. At the beginning of the month was also signed a third credit line agreement between "Inthesis" and the German Development Bank, so the SRS Parliament Club is interested in whether when the gentlemen of the Bank "Inthesis" meant these loans that we are talking about today, or others? Also, the Chachanska Banka was mentioned and it was said that some five million would be realised through it. So the state will release its debt debtors of 700m euros, 100m euros plus interest will be owed, plus loan costs, which is normal for credit. These are the priorities of this ruling majority. On the law on gambling, we heard the position of the SRS, from the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Mr. Jeremic, will later speak more of my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary club. I'll just say that most Serbian citizens are in a position to believe unconditionally that happiness will in itself look at him and become rich overnight by participating in a gambling game. On the other hand, it is unfortunate that people in Serbia are losing faith that they can work, live from their work, support their families, raise and educate their children. All of you who have taken the obligation to exercise authority and responsibility, keep that in mind whenever you sign something and when pressing the voting buttons on a law directly decides on the fate of citizens. The fate of the people on KIM is still the same as yesterday. To them, this cold night was the same as all the other nights. Think about it a little bit. They're calling to comply with state policy, they didn't accept it because they know it's not in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62441	Ten minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are always fundamentally against the continued borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at a time when external debt is about 24 billion euros, but we are particularly against borrowing from the German Development Bank both in economic and political terms and in any other sense, and as my dear colleague said, we believe that we cannot separate either economically or politically, and we know what role Germany plays today in Kosovo. So it is a kind of concerted action towards the Republic of Serbia, a concerted action and in a political sense, and in an economic sense, and we, in particular, will set concrete examples of this harmful loan, this type credit and this loan that will only lead to further unemployment and further collapse of the Republic of Serbia in economic and political terms, we will specifically say which members are harmful to our economic system. So it's about so-called. The framework loan and it will be the focus of my debate, the framework loan given by the German Development Bank worth 100m euros. However, when you look at the proposal for this law, you will see that it is simply a loan that is not known what interest is, you do not know who will be a foreign bank in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that will pass on the loan, to which only one interest will be passed on and only one fact is known, that by 31 December 2012, the Republic of Serbia must fully take over this loan. So we're in charge, i.e. You're in debt for 100m euros, you don't know the interest, you don't know who the loan is going to go to, it's only known that the German Development Bank, since there is no development bank in Serbia, will give its privileged partners in the Republic of Serbia that 100m euros. Who are these privileged partners, it is not difficult to conclude, is seen immediately in the preamble of this framework law, that it is the so-called to partner banks. What are partner banks? It is enough to look at the NBS 2010 report and you will see that 2/3 of the banking sector in the Republic of Serbia is held by monopolies, more specifically by foreign banks from the western part of the EU, in particular from Austria 20%, from Italy and the same in large percentages are from France, Greece, etc. So, the German Development Bank, to translate it into a clear dictionary, will give the German Development Bank to foreign banks from Western Europe working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia a loan. It's a real fact about this loan, and it can't be hidden with all sorts of phrases about so-called. The European future, on favourable loans and you will admit to inappropriate opening presentation, the explanation by the prime minister that lasted, we have watched, four minutes and twenty seconds, or somewhere two sentences are dedicated to this 100m-euro loan that neither interest is known nor who will receive, nor how projects will be financed. I also responsibly argue that this loan encourages corruption in the Republic of Serbia, the very corruption that is so discussed in the reports that are full of the European Commission's phrase on public procurement and I will give you a concrete example of why we consider it. This loan will not be granted to projects in local self-government in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, but will be awarded in accordance with this framework law, according to the stenograms led by representatives of the German Development Bank and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. So, not credit and equipment and all these projects are done in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, but in accordance with some transcripts, with some discussions that we don't know anything about, which we don't even know about, except for a sentence here in this 100m-euro framework law. You will be admitted to being scandalous, and will admit that this is not transparent, you will acknowledge that it is the real practice of the EU and European banks in the financial and political and economic context of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we don't understand how it's possible to talk about a so-called good loan when it comes to a non-interest loan. Also, if any dispute arises, German law will be applicable. If it comes, too, to some process, there will be a measure of arbitration, behold, miracles, in Frankfurt. So it's one loan where obviously from a legal point of view, on the one hand, one side has to listen to everything the dominant says, it means similar to Kosovo, similar to other parts of the economic and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is also unclear that, at a time when the debt of the Republic of Serbia is of 24 billion euros, total external debt and public and private, the Republic of Serbia is in debt under such non-transparent conditions, if we know it is Mr Mladjan Kovacevic, who has nothing to do with the SRS, said in one study, that the average interest on loans, i.e. on the external debt of 24 billion euros 5%. If you translate this, that 5% means that interest on the external debt of the Republic of Serbia is 1.7 billion euros annually. So we send 1.7 billion euros each year to the Western banks mainly from the EU that operate on the Republic of Serbia's market. That's a fact. If we translate that into a time period of 10 years, then we come to a figure, provided there is no more borrowing, which is amazing, that in the next 10 years we will only pay on interest, without principally 17 billion euros. It is a disaster and it is a real indicator of the economic policy of the headless borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. We also listened here as part of the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia that the ideal conditions for this debt of a billion dollars that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did a month ago. The main argument of the government of the Republic of Serbia, prime ministers, all those who follow this so-called policy that the EU has no alternative, was that our credit rating is excellent, that it is at the highest possible level, etc. I ask the prime minister and ask him specifically to answer me – how can you be sure that the credit rating of a country is a security indicator, if you know as a doctor of economic science that the economic crisis has just been caused by the collapse of "Fani May" and "Fredi Mac" which had the highest possible rating by the most famous agencies you call upon when the country is headlessly in debt. So, it's a kind of thing, it's known in economic theory, creative statistics that tell us that GDP malts are constantly growing, that debt is at some red limit of 45%, if I'm not mistaken, but all of this when translated into logic, into pure figures, looks like one big farce, like one farce that needs to show that the EU will bring us a better life and at the cost of taking away 15% of the territory. We are responsible and we will not lie to our citizens that we will not get anything from the EU either politically or economically, and this very harmful loan proves our claims. So we will lose both national honor and economic prosperity, and this is the real result of the phrase that the EU has no alternative. Of course, we believe that there are much better sources of money and much better investment loans than these harmful ones that are coming to us here and that there are much better ways to collect these 100m euros. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going to give you a concrete example, which shows that if the government has economic courage, economic determination and one neutral approach to the phrase that the EU has no alternative, a more accurate approach that shows what real reality is, and this is an example from Slovakia. In this month, the Slovak Parliament, all MPs and oppositions and authorities voted on this month, introduced a crisis tax on bank income of up to 0.4% and precisely the Slovak government, your colleague, believes that in this transition fund, this crisis fund that will be received from that new tax on bank profits will bring exactly 100m euros or a figure equivalent to the figures of this borrowing that we have today to consider. So just a little political and economic courage is enough and these 100m euros will be reached. Also, we see no reason why we should not act as your Spanish counterpart, the finance minister, she introduced, although in the EU there is a financial tax on bank profits in the territory of the Spanish state. Your colleague from Hungary did the same. It is also an EU member. I see no reason why you would be more neoliberalist than those who are in the EU. We believe that your economic policy, it shows both this law and this headless borrowing, is completely wrong. I'll give you an example, I'll paraphrase your memo from the Memorandum, which, together with the President of the Republic, sent to the EU in 2009, the economic and political memorandum on candidacy, where you say that at the moment of re-emergence of protectionism in the world, we will do the opposite, and we will introduce a unilateral application of the transitional trade agreement. Do you know what that led to? It has led to a budget loss of several hundredm euros and the losses that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to compensate for by borrowing under unfavourable, non-transparent conditions with the German Development Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62443	It was used 11 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62444	Mr. Cvetkovic, if you'll excuse me, we noticed, you just smiled while Mr. Mirovic finished his presentation. Do not mind the SRS for drawing attention to one thing, it seems to me that you are sitting in a political position today because you have accepted it and you are the man who has the least reason to laugh because of the political and economic situation in this country and you are the most responsible for both the political and economic situation that has reached us under your leadership, you, your governments, your congregational majority and the policy that you have defined yourself for and which you are managing this country. What causes one feeling of disgust in Serbia today is that in one of these three laws a term of social responsibility is used. Imagine that today at the assembly session, if anyone mentioned it, it doesn't matter who it is, after all, I'm talking about a category and I'm talking about the social responsibility of a representative of the government. Fifteen percent of our territory is being kidnapped, the state is on fire, and we're talking, we're playing with the luck and tax effects of that law, among other things. Mr. Cvetkovic, as a representative of the government, you will repeat your social responsibility in a state that will wash the balances for a billion dollars. What kind of social responsibility is that? Do you wash because you are socially responsible or because you want to settle your obligations to foreign banks or foreign creditors? What's the social responsibility here? What is socially responsible is what Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic spoke of, and it concerns salaries, incomes and haughtiness in the public sector in which you launder the balances, and then you will enter into the restructuring of the public sector. How socially responsible you are, but to someone else's harm and to someone else's back. I sincerely hope that after the next elections this people and this country will be spared these social responsibilities. Today, your negotiating team resented the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija for not listening to their government. While they're sitting under tear gas at barricades, we're talking about gambling. Well, who should respect you and who shouldn't blame you? We're all forced together to stick our heads in the sand, talk about gambling, about a German KFW loan, as it is already called, banks. It's probably her thanks, for the fact that the ringleader is fighting to destroy our sovereignty and territorial integrity. So much for the social responsibility of both the government and the majority, which you unfortunately manage. The Serbian Radical Party cannot accept the fact that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are only obliged to finance a billion dollars, or converted into euro as many as it already is, various public enterprises and institutions, particularly public enterprises, Mr Cvetkovic. We want to hear in accordance with also the Budgetary System Act and the principle of accountability, who's to blame for all this? Why, is it all the world's economic crisis, environmental problems, or does it have our "responsibility" for this kind of chaos in the public sector, whose balances you're now washing? You can wash the balance of a public company, clean it up, as you wrote in your explanation, but those debts are not written off. Do you know what social responsibility was? That by your political credibility, which your high-ranking president boasts he has, he is a regional leader, a world leader, that you have written off some of these debts based on this political credibility. It's a responsibility to the state, public or general interest, and not you're socially responsible, so our directors who have robbed and abused positions to make debts, that's what the citizens are going to pay back, we're going to write off our debts and we're socially responsible, and we're going to smile at all that. And three hundred miles from here, the state burns. Everything's great. Now we need to live in that lethargy or hibernation, whatever you want, it doesn't matter. You see, Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm going to try an indirect example of why we look at this decision to take on the debts of these companies with disgust. Fortunately, a few days ago we received a report from the State Auditing Institution from a public company, the public company Resavica. I'm asking you-- did you read what the state audit found here? One of the only public procurements was not carried out in accordance with the law. I don't have time to read. Robbery, theft, crime. Billions of debts on behalf of taxes and contributions, on behalf of income tax, on behalf of taxis for use and ore, that natural wealth. This has nothing to do with "The Railway", or "The Roads of Serbia", but practice and manners are the same in the Railways and in the Roads and in Resavica. That's controversial. That's why nothing has credibility as much as you suggest as a measure, nothing, because you're not capable and ready to deal with robbery and crime in the ranks that you're setting up. The SRS didn't pick those directors. You were setting them up. While you're poisoning us with the department, look what you're doing. The spending of this company last year is 5.5 billion, and revenue is 4. Of that 4.2 billion and 100 subsidies from the state. You are now coming out here before us, you are socially responsible. No expense is in line with the planned. Now someone's going to steal and rob, be protected because he's a member of the ruling coalition, and then, God forbid, in some new term, you're going to generously take over their debts, and then when you take on the back of the people's debts that these companies and these companies are being pushed into restructuring. How brilliant, smart, benevolent and socially responsible you are. For God to protect us from your social responsibilities. I'm not saying there are no problems. Is this facing in one serious way with problems? I ask you, Mr. Cvetkovic, what are the institutions whose debts you've taken over to do in return for the state? On the basis of what you have taken over as a debt of the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Subotica, or the University of Novi Sad, no planning document can be paid to a foreign consultant or any other home that deals with these matters anymore. To charge them, to oblige them that you no longer pay for these services from the Republic of Serbia's budget. No document of scientific, planning, strategic character must ever come out of another house more than that. The state must no longer pay anyone for this service because you have taken over the debts of those who are in charge or are able to do so. It's social responsibility, if you like. What will KBC Zemun do in return to the state to pay his debts? You've promoted health care. God forbid you need a doctor. That's disgusting. Mr. Cvetkovic, he's right, Mr. Mirovic. Can you now pick up after me and tell me how much interest is on individual loan contracts from KFW from Germany? Nobody knows. Who are you doing a favor for, local self-government? Under what conditions will they be in debt? Now you've opened up a chance for them to be in debt to the sky. Take a look and read the news today, what messages are being sent by some of the presidents of the municipalities from Strasbourg – everything is great, to regionalize, to make new provinces in Serbia. It's their fight for the regions. It's a disaster. They go unauthorized to Strasbourg and vote for decisions that Serbia should possibly accept, so instead of one that we have four Vojvodinas, etc. That's what your friends from the EU resent. Read today's news, see what's coming from Strasbourg. You're talking about social responsibility by giving loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, for what? To change boilers and carpentry. In ten years, you have failed to raise one promiscuity social awareness of energy efficiency. It's on the level of experimental departments at school. Now someone in Serbia is going to take out a loan, change the boiler, change the carpentry, change the installation, and 10,000 are closed last year alone. Why? Because you're not ready to settle a part of the debt that the state owes this year. That's what we talked about a few days ago. We have proposed that you give 10 billion dinars to small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr Cvetkovic, as much as the Republic of Serbia owes, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't mean to. You didn't say no. That's 10% of the country's total debt to these people. You get 18% of VAT every month. You have no mercy. Do you know what solutions are now coming through Serbia from the tax administration? Blockade, unscrupulous tax is charged, because your income is falling. But you can't drain dry dreno, Mr. Cvetkovic, but you have to offer them an answer, a life solution, not to live in haze and fiction and economic theories that will serve us to justify our irresponsibility and our inability. We remind you once again, it burns 15% of the state. Order a session, seek talks, seek a solution for the people of KIM who no longer trust in your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62445	Eleven minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary groups. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. After her, the People's Messenger Momchilo Duvnjak. If he's not here, then MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62446	The purpose of the debate under the laws that the government is sending to parliament is to convince, above all, the parliamentary majority that something in the law needs to be fixed, and then to put pressure on the government together to change and accept it. However, I cannot appeal to the parliamentary majority today, because there are only 18 MPs, the parliamentary majority. I can appeal to the government, but first of all, I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia and I'm talking, mostly, about the law on gambling, given that you've brought us together to frogs and frogs and that it's impossible to really talk about all the three laws that are united in this debate. We agreed within the Parliament group to deal with all the laws, but to give each of us priority to one of these laws. So when we say happiness, we immediately ask one rhetorical question or philosophical question, what is happiness? I am convinced, Mr. Prime Minister, that these days and how you think about it, that there will be some uncertain event like this and the games of happiness, so some things in the country will be resolved by themselves, such as the question of KIM, but it is uncertain, so you will have to rely on something else and you will have the strength to come out together with the President of the Republic, with a clear plan of what we will do next, or to make sure that you tell everyone who put pressure on you clearly, that you no longer want to be in the EU, who wants to take part of your territory. This is your obligation under the Constitution, and it is your duty to answer that constitutional obligation. In any case, it is of great interest to pass this law, and on the shortcomings of this law, since we passed it in 2004-2005, and on those changes from 2010, we told you that you would not achieve the effect you wanted to achieve. It is very important that the effect that the state wants to achieve by implementing or a good law of gambling, first of all, because of the budgetary resources that are being charged in this way, and you also calculated statistics, says that when we are in some crisis times, then people rely on happiness and the last 20, 50 and 100 dinars to buy that "grab-grab" to scratch an audience, because it says -- there's happiness. If the ministers are driving the auditions, we'd all like the same auditions. I'm not saying the minister shouldn't be driving in an audience. You should, but this people should also have the opportunity to get to a good car. It's every man's wish to have as many material goods as possible. Of course, he deserves them with his work, but he needs someone to create conditions for him to work and make a living. On the other hand, what these funds are used for is also very important. That's what you've well predicted in article 5 and the law as a law is not bad, we're just telling you again that you won't be able to implement it, because you won't achieve the effect you want to achieve, which is because the black gambling market is still very large. No one came out with those numbers that are heard, that legal and illegal bookies have a turnover of about 400m euros a year. The gentleman from the board of games is fortunately here. We could also read in the press that you looked back on that illegal market, which, again, won't be able to be contained by this new law now, as it couldn't be based on the old one, since you only had five inspectors on 3,000 objects. That's what we told you six years ago and only a blind man couldn't see it was impossible. After six years, you remembered to propose these changes. Who's responsible for losing so much money? Did anyone get hurt? Did someone go to jail? Did anyone get fired? The police action was in June, something went down a little bit, some retreated, some locked themselves in yellow, some in blue and green houses. The games of chance exist in various villages, smaller towns, and you still can't control it and the state runs out of money. I'm interested – will anyone ever answer for it? Isn't it important for us to have as many funds in the budget as possible, when we know that these funds go, above all, to finance the Red Cross, to organise persons with disabilities, other associations that aim to improve the socio-economic and social position of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, social protection institutions, sports and youth, local self-government and the treatment of rare diseases? That's what article 5 says, and we can't care what happens to that money. You should have filed a report or made it clear. This is where you hinted at our thinking material, but no one told us what happened after that police action. You know what made me laugh the most when I read the explanation, though, I believe you were honest with me about it? You said this law must go according to an emergency procedure, first of all because of what is necessary and the consequences could arise, that it would be a low income from compensation and abuse by a gambling inspector. So you're saying that there are abuses, and we don't know, and you didn't tell us if any gambling inspectors were responsible for these abuses? Did you think you should resign? I'm sorry, it's nothing personal. I'm asking you as someone who's head of this administration, if there were any of these abuses. Then you have to say, I haven't been able to contain it, and I can't do that job. It's not gonna happen. Then you're still telling us that it's a very important activity and that it's going to contribute to some new Greenfield investments. Please, if it wasn't really funny, it'd be more like satirical. You say the analysis of the gambling market in Serbia found that there are few objects that can be reconstructed into modern toys, as you predicted. That amendment to the law would contribute to "grinfield" investment, which is in line with the country's economic policy. This is really something that, if it doesn't help us, nothing else will help us and will not get us out of the crisis, which is at the expense of Mr. Cvetkovic. So, we need modern toys to better contribute to the country's better tourist offer – come to Serbia to gamble. That's all we can offer. You're talking about something that's very important here, but it's unspeakable. You intend to deal with social responsibility, so you protect young people, so the playgrounds are 200 meters away from school and all the other casinos and I don't know what, so I can't let the young ones in. We know that mostly minors consume these gambling games and bookies and everything else. Who are you telling is that something that's going to be written in the playroom, bookies, that young people can't get in, that it's harmful for them, that it's harmful for their health, that they can become addicted and that it'll answer them from getting in? You're going to do it by some sublegal act, which is impossible to solve in that way. Then a gentleman who's not from the Administration, but represents the interests of bookies, talks about how in practice, which I could read almost in some daily newspaper, looks like they're fighting addicts now, because we know there are a lot of people who are addicted to gambling. How do you recognize it? He says they're shaking their hands, they're nervous, they're sweating, they're aggressive, they're... And then you send all the employees to education at the Center for Public and Mental Health. It's only a fool can believe it's true. Then as a wife may come and say, "Here is a picture of my husband, and he spends all his wages with you, so do not let him in, and like them will not allow him to enter." I'm talking about the things of life that the law mentions. If he can't solve them, he shouldn't even mention them. It's a funny situation. It's not for norms. It's more of a matter to deal with some other science. If we can't prevent it, we won't norm or write it right away – it can't, under criminal responsibility, or – we'll punish with as much and as much criminally the owner of a bookie or a responsible person if someone under 18 comes in, how much time he spends there, how much money he spends. On the other hand, I've had a symptom of this law again, and I know that you, Mr. Cvetkovic, haven't dealt with this law, that you're here as finance minister, but we're also talking about it for the public, maybe someone else in the government is listening, so they're going to install something into some next amendment or some new law, because I see that you haven't fully agreed with what the EU is asking you to do, because on the European path you have to do everything, and we're going to do some change again in a few months. Recording, say, in a casino of people who come to get a little gambling for fun, because that's what the first and second members of the law say, is still something that can be misused. You've never written in laws how to protect yourself from these abuses. If I, say, go to the casino to gamble a little bit, maybe I don't want anyone in my family to find out, I don't want you to blackmail me or the police to come to it, and they say, "You're a little prone to gambling, so if you don't do it, we'll put it in the paper, and you're a public figure. There are respectable people who care that you don't know that. I'm talking about things that are happening and that are going to happen, and you haven't legally solved, you haven't protected anyone here. Only the casino owner can use what he's got, who he's sitting next to, who he's doing, who's going in, what he drank and what he's doing. This law is very badly done with good intentions. Matter must be regulated, but far from being satisfied, that you have worked this matter out and that you sanctioned everything that should have been the subject of sanctioning, especially to protect the youth and to solve the question of the social danger of gambling. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62447	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62448	How much time do I have, Mrs. Comic? (President: The time available to the parliamentary group is 21 minutes. Thank you. I realized that the first two laws you've brought together to be a single debate, the principle, as it's called, there's some reasoning, but what you've inserted this one on gambling, when there's not a single touch point from the previous two. First, we are talking about a law on regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors of public funds for commitments made on foreign loans, i.e. loans. This is the third law that regulates the same matter. The first was the federal law on regulation of relations between SRJ and legal entities and banks from the territory of the SRJ which were original debtors or guarantors to the Paris and London Club creditors, published in the "Official List" 36/02, and in 2005, the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on the regulation of the relations of the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans and as a third happiness, that is the only link with the third law, is this bill that is now on the agenda. We heard from the finance minister that the law was passed to clear the balances. I don't know why the balances are cleaning up. Why do you need to lose track? There's another actor in this business, and that's the Deposit Insurance Agency, Mr. Cvetkovic. There you've forgotten quite a bit about one fact that there are people who remember all of this, who know this continuity. You just said it was loans and loans they took through banks, via the SFRY, public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia. Let's say right now what it's about. One, you put in the "Serb Railroads of Serbia" company, and you said it was something 30 years ago. If it's 30 years ago, then I can understand that their commitment is 15.5 million US dollars, and I can't understand 181m euros. The euro was not a means of payment 30 years ago, and it seems to me that by the new year it will hardly be an anniversary, since you see for yourself, now every village in Western Europe is making some of its points and they are now moving to dots, have you noticed? I told you six months ago, Eric Canton invited people -- raise the euro, because the euro has nothing. How did you calculate now that 30 years ago there was a debt in the euro? First objection. The second observation is the same for you at the Road of Serbia, and so is the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia has been a beneficiary of a loan, placed those funds and now the state assumes the commitment of that fund, i.e. the state has already assumed the obligation, as a guarantee. This whole country's already paying for it. It's the only thing Mr. Cvetkovic's right about. How is it possible that 30 and a few years from now she hasn't learned a lesson? Mr. Cvetkovic, health workers are on strike. I wouldn't recommend you go outside. Okay, maybe you'll talk to them, too. 35 years ago, at that time, the state had the right to be in charge, took some investment credit to develop some infrastructure for a public enterprise of republican importance, and 30 and a few years ago the state was unable to repay that investment. We're actually talking about refinance now. You know, the ones from the west, their euro is like two million of our dinars. It's a course they're applying. They put their own on the cantar, as some measure and eggs on the cantar. They're just supposed to put you in a borrowing machine, then you don't get out of that machine. Whoever produces an epochal result, then informs the public -- dear citizens, we have come out of debt slavery -- passes as Nikolai Ceausescu. Nikolaja Ceausescu informed the nation five days before that revolution that Romania owes no one. They hit him right away. You have a situation with Libya, it's similar. As soon as there was a change in ownership in the refineries, that 60% belonged to Libya and 40% to foreign investors, the Facebook people happened. You have to take care of that. What can we learn from that? To interpret with the reserve all these debts for the past 11 years, to interpret with an even greater reserve when we are told here – it is taken by the company, and the state gives only a guarantee to the Guarantee Act. He's always in the country. Since the state can't make a forced claim on its company, which works with state property, I now draw your attention that a month ago you passed the Law on Public Property and in that law you made a glow of nebulosis. So the state must always be guaranteed. If the state is guaranteed then the government must provide instruments that will prevent the accidental use of all these funds together. Yesterday we had that fertile debate, and we saw that the name of a sports club depends on the diaspora. That's funny. But here we have an even worse situation, here we have public enterprises that are very poor according to the balance of success, and we have a personal consumption of management directors and boards, which I thought had been depolitized since 2000. Now, Junior, she's got some truth coming out of him again, saying they're not depolitized, but that it's on parcels, you know exactly how many percent there are. Just to let you know, Mrs. Comic, when we last talked about the law on gambling, I took advantage of an example of a lady who was fired in the Serbian State lottery. She's got a dispute. Although, I've received a warning from you, but she's got a slow one. Now she's asking to be compensated for the damages she's making. Do you know how many open dots and questions there are in these gambling games? Recently, the payment went up. That's how you killed a citizen's last hope. Based on what you're doing, people could only come to infallible conclusions. The first conclusion – no EU, no NATO pact, and all of what KIM takes away from us. Second, not for the coalition. Your coalition is like a blue bridge. Under the blue bridge, anyone can pass. No coalition. You see when the coalitions start to corrupt the country as it turns out. It's a disaster. As soon as you hear you're going to the coalition, there's a scam in preparation. Let's see what happens next. This is all coming to the state for payment. Now let's see, because this debt regulation bill needs the truth, so this is the third law of a whole package. The whole package is based on reset because in 2000 it was said – Serbia must start from the ashes. So, Serbia has to get set on fire first, then something new comes up. When did you do that? When did you burn down the assembly or when you voted from Bodrum? You can't even organize this by voting from Bodrum, you know, this is stamped for all time, and Bodrum doesn't help, nor Thessaloniki. Watch out, the meter's ticking, it's ticking all the time. You can say in the replica – debt is needed to ensure an elemental life, but not to bear responsibility for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, for the Cefta Agreement and for all those agreements where you agreed to place our market at the heart of Brussels. That's why their stuff here is cheaper, it goes at dumping prices, and those prices are killing the idea of doing something about it. That's what this is about. When it comes to this second law, we're in charge of 100m euros, it's supposed to be a framework agreement, so you're also going to achieve epochal results, I just don't know when. What did you write in the preamble of that contract? Further improvement and strengthening Serbia's banking sector. The main reason to sign this agreement with KfW is to strengthen the banking system. But, gentlemen, from Mladjan Dinkic here you boast as if the banking system in Serbia is the best banking system in the world. We had the most successful governor of the National Bank, of course, Junior. Well, the most successful finance minister, of course, Junior. Was he a bambino, too? No, it was Dacic's bamboo. You've picked up all the prizes, and Serbia's going down. Now, however, the Young Man has gone after local communities, forgot about the National Bank on the way and still can't answer people for the 1,000 euros. This thing for Fiat, nobody's gonna know how to answer that. We owe 100m euros. Make sure they're on the best of terms. Here, to accept that Mr. Cvetkovic was wrong, so he said – interest rate between 1.5 and 3. Make it an interest rate of 0.1%. The loan is not paid for the Republic of Serbia. For municipal infrastructures, have you recently passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government? You reset that 57 billion-dollar debt to local self-government. You reportedly gave income based on salary tax to local self-government units for what is being achieved on their territory. So reset, a new source of income, changed transfers, transfer of solidarity, etc. There are several donation projects to local self-governments concerning infrastructure, etc. Nothing was done significantly and epochally. All local self-government can now count on a project of 1.5m to 2.5m euros being passed. You gave for energy efficiency something. What black energy efficiency? Look what's happening to you in the electricity industry. And Kolubara's an electrical economy, so you know. How much do these tycoons owe you? Why don't you collect the claims from them? Just taxes and contributions to the take. Here, in the first stage, just take the VAT. In the second stage, only some contribute wages so that people can exercise the right to retire, the inalienable right, the unimpaired right of each individual. Clean up what you owe the economy as a state. But, no, borrowing, borrowing, borrowing, framework agreements, to improve the banking system. Well, our banking system is the best in the world, you know. What did Shoskic say? Here's how good our banking system is. The Republic of Serbia is a majority shareholder at the Post Office, it is a bank, and the Serbian Bank, there is 96.5% of the ownership. Then, together with the RBD, the majority shareholder at the Commercial Bank, the Cachanska Banka, there is a business shareholder as an agent who performs on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and the Deposit Insurance Agency. The question is if she could be, but she can do anything with you, since the Deposit Insurance Agency and her balance sheet and her condition can't be seen. It's a forbidden topic. We'll probably end up going to the deposit insurance agency. Do you know what this reminds me of? This reminds me of the energy project situation, because it has huge assets abroad. From Jugos gas came Zecevic, that partisan rabbit. Why did he come? As a special advisor. She felt thin enough to get some work done. On balances, there's real estate abroad. Can we even talk about borrowing laws if we don't solve criminal charges against Cypriot couples? How can we talk when we don't have a solution for the Cypriot couples? We have one story from Mladjan Dinkic, we have one story from Velja Ilic, we had one story from Vladan Batić and we have a confession that nothing is clear to man, and that's what Zoran Djindjic told. So we had this Wolf, Minic, Fi, remember, we had it all, but it's gone, there's no line, let's see below the line, what's above the line, what's below the line. Here we will – borrowing, thus proving our commitment to Brussels and the winged "Europe has no alternative". The first law that needs to regulate relations, so do you imagine that "the railroad of Serbia" has its property in KIM territory? Serbia's "roads" must keep their records of immovableity, in lists, to keep their immovableities on KIM. What do you want this way to reset and that? Well, it can't reset. Well, you can't reset the Serbs with Kim. You can't. As you have deceived them for passports, for ID cards and for other personal documents, the time has come to collect. They don't believe it. The state can't claim it, it can't actually use its property, what it owns. Who won't? Your friends who brought you to power. You moved in 1999 -- the UN is coming, the Serbs will be protected, remember Vuk Draskovic? "Let's dissipate with pride, NATO Pact, our friends have come." What about that property? I don't care why I'm in charge, I don't care what I write down, I don't care what I give away. You cannot hide behind democracy and the democratic process. What do you think-- the next election, we lost the election, so it says democracy. So what black democracy? What about suffering? What's with all the stuff going on down there? What about the strategic positions of public enterprises that are a condition for living and working in this space? Then let's throw in the games of chance, we just need some more luck. And epochal things happen in the law of gambling, they're going to work the Internet, and one of them is going to do field control, the other is going to do office control, so the fiscalization is going to be like this fiscalization, what exists in stores or self-services, where it's going through, so it's going to get that slice, so it's not connected to any system, it's just the one that pays. That payment machine where money is to be taken, and the second it registers somewhere, in some center, it doesn't exist, it's a scam. Well, most of all, it's stolen in the fiscal registers. It's not stolen in a market where there's a law of supply and demand. Well, it doesn't do self-service in the morning, he says data is being transferred overnight. What data is being transferred overnight? You know, for a very serious and difficult time, you go with pretty unserious laws and unserious topics, but it's also part of your tactics about how to die, put to sleep public opinion and how to need thoughts from major and existential things, to talk about something that's definitely territorial at this given historic moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62449	Since this exhausted list of MPs is on application for a word in a joint principled and uniform search, before the conclusion of a joint principled and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used the right set out in Article 96? National MP Vladan Jeremic, five minutes and 50 seconds at his disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62450	Well, here's the thing, in the end, just a few more parameters regarding this gambling law, a law that will raise the level of social responsibility for this country. One of the permanent items that causes such ambiguities and the subject is absolutely justifiable criticism. It's certainly a provision of law regarding that distance, so, that 200 meters from school, etc. What is interesting is that this law has not been done in the right way either, or how precise distance will be measured, that is, can it be dependent on how authorized interpretations of regulations, or that depends only on good will and on how someone will motivate them to do so? Of course, what I think, and that is certainly the thinking of the SRS parliamentary group, is that the interpretation of this, that is, the determination of that length certainly depends on the number offered in euros or dinars for whoever measures that path. What's also interesting is that the provision of a member of the law on private entrepreneurs prevents the possession of objects within 200 metres of school, and the lottery, behold, wonders, can own an object, although they are engaged in the same activity, or by attracting games of chance. And that, you will allow, is an unremarked example of an unbalanced treatment. They obviously didn't respect even that acquired rights to the work of private organizers and lotteryrs, besides this absolute, even here let's call, spatial monopoly. Another irregularity, or one of the irregularities that they have pointed to, is certainly the restriction of the duration of the prize games to 30 days and the possibility of organising them only twice a year for all economic operators. This, in practice, means that even low intensity awards have been blocked through which consumers were given additional opportunity to win prizes possibly in goods or services. The special issue, a special story in general, is the quality of Serbia's state lottery services, the expansion of offers, the uptake of those gambling games that open competition, as some of the lottery and the surrounding countries do. There are various messages that are, so I don't know how to tell them, in terms of these provisions of the law on gambling. Even reportedly, it takes care of even regional development, with the government in its public invitation to give permits to attract special gambling in toys citing the territory in which it will be located, and all the more so in order to create new jobs in less developed places. Of course, at a time when job layoffs and job losses, when measured daily by hundreds and thousands, this is really, by little, hypocritical. After all, I will repeat what is our position, this bill will not bring any benefit to the citizens. The fact that you expect it to contribute somewhat to the increase in the budget, I think that it is really very little, practically negligible, and also what is always a question of all the issues, is the money that, in order to further achieve it in this way, who knows and what your political efforts will end up with. I just remind you that this law will cost you about 300,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62451	Thank you. Does anyone else come forward for a word that hasn't taken advantage of their right to Article 96? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a common principle and uniform search on points 10, 11) and 12) of the agenda. On the basis of Articles 87 and 90, in accordance with Article 27, making sure that all the conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly session are ensured, I shall set a break of up to 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours we will continue the joint search on 13) and 14) of the agenda. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the session in the afternoon section of the joint principled review on the draft Law on Exchanges and Completings of the Law on SOLVING TRADE AND THE PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY AND CONCESSES A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint review of the draft laws under points 13 and 14 of the agenda, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, and this is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit their application for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, which prescribes that the application for a word be submitted before the opening of a principle, common principle or common uniform search of the agenda point. I would like to inform you that according to these points of the daily redistributive group, the following MPs: National MP Sinisa Stamenković, PUPS, MP Elvira Kovac, Manjina MP, MP Zoran Kasalović, MP of the SPS – JS, MP Arsen Djuric, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zoran Krasic, SRS. If any of the other parliamentary groups decide to appoint a MP as a representative, please inform us about this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Foreign Trade and the Proposal for a Law on Public – Private Partnership and concessions. Does the representative of Proposer Predrag Markovic, Minister of Culture and Information of the Information Society, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62453	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, just one small note, highly respecting this home and the fact that it is the most important body of government in the Republic of Serbia, I respect your willingness to ensure, for the sake of importance for the state of Serbia, that as soon as possible all necessary laws and what the need for a previous period has shown, for any additions or changes to comply with our laws with the European Regulation, as soon as possible, even in situations where the minister in charge is in another obligation, so I am pleased to present to the Serbian Government the two laws that are necessary to be agreed and discussed as soon as possible, and I apologize on behalf of those colleagues who could not be present at the moment. Once again, respect for your willingness to show responsibility and efficiency. The first draft law on public-private partnership and concessions is the result of the growing need to build a new public infrastructure, invest in the benefit of general interest, and provide services of general interest in the Republic of Serbia. This has led to an increase in demand for private sources of funding for public-important projects, as a result of lack of public funding and insufficient funding by state bodies, authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government to develop and modernise travel, municipal and other infrastructure, as well as public-important facilities, it is necessary to create a legal and institutional framework for attracting private investment. The concession law, which was adopted in this House in 2003, took the first step towards establishing basic principles for giving concessions in almost all sectors, but since the time of adoption of the Law on concessions of matter related to the regulation of public-private partnerships and concessions has been constantly developing at the international level and at the level of EU legislation, so that the law has begun to show its weaknesses which it has failed to address, as well as the problems encountered in implementing concession projects, as well as in the provision of private capital security that it will succeed in restoring its investments and making profit. The Saldo Treaty on concessions concluded five concession agreements, of which four contracts were terminated and a number of potential concession projects were not implemented at all. It should not be explained that all participants in these activities have found that the damage suffered by the state of Serbia in total, so the proposed law for the first time introduces the concept of a public-private partnership into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and for the first time the local authorities will be able to implement their needs for infrastructure and public services in this model, with clearly established rules of conduct. The task force working on this law has highlighted the objectives which are to achieve the proposed laws, and they are primarily attracting domestic and foreign investors and banks for funding and co-financing and project management, providing a legal framework for a transparent and fair tender procedure with equal treatment of all providers in the process of seeking private partners for these projects, encouraging public-private partnership in order to build public infrastructure and provide services in the public interest, providing quality services of public importance, but, above all, greater value for the invested, and that means spending money through optimisation of efficiency and efficiency, economics regarding the total costs of ownership of public infrastructure and public service. Of course, compliance with EU rules is understood, especially in the area of public procurement and compliance with international standards and best international practice. In an effort to ensure that the proposed members of the law participate in all levels of all interested people, wherever there is a need, there is, of course, not enough money, if no citizens have it, there is no state. It is proposed to shorten the procedures, simplify the procedure so that the financial and those who are in the mood to take part and find the interest of the public partnership, are not in a difficult situation, so delaying the difficult business and the process of preparation for investment, because Serbia certainly cannot waste time and this is another key contribution to what we are late as a state and this is what we call common guillotine regulations, it is necessary to simplify the procedure as soon as possible and allow the money to be activated as soon as possible in the interests of citizens. The same reason is also in the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Trade Act, because simplifying administrative procedures is the first and basic reason, as well as harmonising with new legal solutions in customs law and the Foreign Trade Act, while following recommendations from the European Commission and members of the World Trade Organisation, that certain categories in the text of the Foreign Trade Act, I mean the applicable law, should be sufficiently agreed with the relevant provisions of the World Trade Organisation, so that there is no misunderstanding regarding their application, and that certain members of the relevant agreements should be fully incorporated into the text of the law, because we have a slowdown in the process of external trade. The text of the draft law, which is before you, adopted recommendations from the Office for Regulatory Reform and the analysis of the effects of the regulations in order to realise the project of guillotine regulations, i.e. simplifying administrative procedures. The original proposal covers the most important changes from the point of view of the application of the laws for which I am obliged to read and draw attention to Article 1 relating to Article 3 of the applicable law, where persons in external trade are located in addition to legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons who are now listed. This is where the branch is added, as part of a legal entity that can deal with foreign trade. In Article 2, Article 4 of the applicable law, branch and representation shall be deleted, given that the matter is a branch and representation, as well as their business capacity defined by the Company Act, which will take effect at the same time as this law, i.e. on 1 February 2012. Articles 4 and 5 are given specific definitions of the basic principles of the World Trade Organisation in relation to goods on the one hand and services on the other hand, this is, of course, in accordance with the general agreement on customs duties and trade in GAT 94 and the general agreement on trade, GAT services, given the differences in the definitions of the basic principles which these agreements contain and their application. Article 6 amended Article 11 of the applicable law, so that the member, who regulates the exceptions to the principle of freedom of external trade, would fully comply with the exceptions contained in Articles 20 and 21. GAT 94. The addition of Article 14 of the applicable law, which is complemented by the provision that the Government prescribes and closer conditions for the application of measures for transparency in their application, and in Article 8 for the definition of transit, this time also gives reference to the customs law, since it defines the concept of transit of goods. The members related to the application of quantitative restrictions and the allocation of quotas and prescribed in which cases a quantitative restriction is proposed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and in which other competent authorities. Article 23, which regulates the procedure for the issue of use and the withdrawal of licences, is amended as it is extended by the provisions laid down in the Agreement on the procedures for the issue of import licences GAT 94 and sets out the time limits for the adoption of the rules before the application of the authorisation regime, the elements which such regulation must contain as well as the means of applying for authorisation which must be as simple as possible and the party submits the application once and, in exceptional cases, delivers the most in three bodies. In the section relating to the protection of balance of balance of payments, Articles 15 and 16 in addition to the criteria for the introduction of this measure, it is noted that the priority is to have price measures above quantitative limits and further to Article 18 in order to simplify administrative procedures, it is proposed to delete Article 41 of the applicable law, investment in another country and customs territory. Investment data will be submitted by residents to the National Bank of Serbia in the future, and I think it is particularly important that within the framework of the criminal provisions, penalties are increased in accordance with the amendments and additions to the Law on Violations brought by this assembly in 2009. I would like to remind you that this and the previous draft laws, proposed amendments, have also been made to simplify administrative procedures, agreeing with new legal solutions, on relevant rules of domestic law and that the recommendations of the European Commission and members of the World Trade Organisation have been met in the process of joining the European Union and the World Trade Organisation. The amendments made to the proposal for this law have not been accepted, and I draw attention to the proposal for a law on public-private partnership and concessions, where not all the relevant ministries are listed, a simplified solution has been given that the cabinet of the Prime Minister will propose a commission that, in addition to the listed relevant ministries, which would be interested in the public-private partnership process will be able to join it. It is natural for me to stress this because the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, is responsible for the definition, and especially after the adoption of the Restitution Law, is as interested as the citizens of Serbia are in the public-private partnership in this area and will take part in this. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62454	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MPs Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Siniša Stamenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, respected fellow gentlemen, at the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, from 14 March 2011, presented to this high house, the priorities the government will be working on in its term. A special emphasis has been placed on the successful completion of planned reform processes, on the fundamental improvement of the legal order and economic system of the country, in order to bring all EU and world standards and all technical and legal standards of international world organisations closer together. The introduction of a far more complex legal order and a new economic system of the country is not only a political task on Serbia's European path, but the greatest achievement of the high degree of compliance of our economic, economic and legal legitimacy with the whole world. One of the very important laws for the regulation and security of the system of performance of certain businesses and other activities, and in order to bring economic relations into line with abroad, is certainly the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Trade Act. The harmonisation of the rules with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and their Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other hand, this law is in line with the provisions of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade between the EU and Serbia. The point of approximation is to ensure the flow of goods, both industrial products and products from agriculture and fisheries and other goods in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement and the transitional Agreement on Trade. It is essential that we all remind ourselves together of the circumstances in which Serbia is present and in which such an important law should be adopted. The European Commission today, unequivocally in its report, acknowledges Serbia has succeeded in establishing a general legal and institutional framework in the fields of justice, freedom and security, but that capacity needs to be improved among competent ministries, institutions and services. It is particularly important that Serbia's policy in this area has a healthy relationship that we share in budgetary, institutional and legislative activity, which must be implemented. Under budgetary responsibility, according to IMF opinions and views, fiscal responsibility has been established at all levels, savings and a reduction of public spending and strict respect for the latest IMF arrangement as a guarantee of the country's macroeconomic stability. Serbia's balance of payments is real and it is from government, ministries, in the public and real sectors, seen as an extremely responsible position, which must not be jeopardised at all, and above all by any new increase in budget deficits outside the planned framework. Serbia's external debt will no longer be increased, and monitoring the fiscal deficit of public debt will only be in line with fiscal rules, with real and rapid responses to halting reductions and recovery from the global economic crisis. The PUPS Group considers that the measures of the Government and the National Bank of Serbia are aimed at reducing the crisis and recovery in the areas of economy, trade, agriculture and above all through the reduction of the mandatory reserves of NBS to commercial banks that place loans to the export economy, or trade, with mandatory support for exporters, and above all those who place agricultural and food products, a mandatory and rigorous plan of additional savings in all budget apportionations through a reduction of public spending, then creating all conditions for maintaining the planned minus budget, as well as speeding up the process and signing new arrangements in external trade. The new solutions in this law came from the initiative of the unit for comprehensive regulation reform, as well as from business entities that directly submitted proposals to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development following the presentation of the public debate, most of which were incorporated into new solutions. We must also point out that WTO members had insight into the law and that their suggestions and comments were useful and positive. It is also noted that through the implementation of the guillotine programme the provisions and the supporting regulations have been removed, and on the basis of the WTO Group's recommendation, so that the law on external trade is exempt from restrictive rules relating to tangible direct investment abroad, as well as other provisions. We consider this law to make business easier for domestic and commercial operators. We believe that, during the adoption of the law, it was necessary to implement the adjustment of new legal solutions, but also to fully specify the terms to be introduced into it. In addition to legal harmonisation, the difficult part of the harmonisation was in the field of technical regulations, and according to international directives, agreements and ratified contracts, which required the regulation of all technical regulations applying to imports of goods individually, and the general rules applicable under the earlier formulation to apply to all products, regardless of the origin of the product. Under the law on foreign trade, every product must now have its origin, it must be attested, it must have its declaration, its price and its protection. The PUPS Group again insists that as many elements as possible be resolved through the law and that as little as possible be left to the Government or to the competent ministry in signing other conditions for payment and collection of goods, i.e. services to avoid battery systems and buttels transactions because the state cannot be obliged as an economic operator, but rather someone involved in ageing, a harmonised optimal and political environment for business in business and trade. This law, we are confident, will achieve a priority goal of harmonising with WTO rules and principles, and all conditions will be ensured for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the WTO as quickly as possible. The PUPS parliamentary group expects a positive impact of this law on all participants in foreign trade. The fact is that this law simplifies the procedure in implementing and issuing export and import licences with precise terms of the institute, but also with detailed determination of the principles of external trade based on domestic and positive international guarantees. In the voting day, the PUPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate in the principle of a proposal for a law on public private partnership and concessions continues to work intensively to discuss and adopt legislation in the field of the agenda, on compliance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Serbia on the one hand, as well as with the provisions of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the EU and Serbia. We must note that this law is being considered and adopted in a period when the world is threatened by a major economic sink, when all developed countries show a huge decline in GDP, huge unemployment, when it is difficult to implement reform laws and a series of specificities that point to a deep crisis. Serbia's economic crisis points to a constant and realistic review of our opportunities and constant demands from us for reform procedures that cannot be delayed and without which there is no stopping the crisis or overcoming it. Serbia's assessment is that it has complex macroeconomic stability, that budget costs are under control, as well as a minus in the state register, that state procedures and rules are respected, and that the provisions of a new IMF engagement are respected. There is a huge deal left in the reform of the banking sector and credit policy, then in the area of creating an ambience of a successful business environment and ending for the time being a slow privatisation process, where we need to complete the restructuring of public enterprises, privatise municipal enterprises and complete privatisation in around 20% of enterprises. Serbia is required to finally break up with monopolies, whether they are state or private, but also to contummate the state's right to administratively determine the prices of all the instructions, primarily electricity, gas, transport, as well as the prices of basic life supplies – bread, sugar, milk and oil. This environment, in which such an important law as the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions is passed, burdens the fact that subsidies and grants from the budget for certain products and thus the public partnership between the state and the economy and public institutions and businessmen have not been properly introduced. We note that these procurements in the country are not carried out in a satisfactory way, and this has a significant impact on partnership, on co-operation, on concessions, as this results in a large number of malversions and corruptions. We must certainly accept the separation of the competences of those who discuss tenders from those who control public procurement procedures to those who receive public and other jobs in public private partnerships and concessions. A complex environment in which Serbia today needs to get out of that debt car in which everyone owes, which must be cut down with the introduction of payment deadlines and their limitations, would be to meet the basic requirement of our economy, given that a special node of indivisibility is very burdened with public enterprises and their business commanders. The Regulation on the limitation of payment deadlines cannot apply solely to the economy, but must refer to public undertakings which, according to some indicators, owe seven times as much money as the republican and local authorities owe. If the Republic and local authorities are required to repay their debts to the economy within 60 days, the economy would also have to carry out its commitments to the state, according to its funds and institutions within 60 days. The PUPS Group believes that this law, as well as many others in this set of laws, must fully regulate the area of public action and, above all, through the regulation of privatisation and corporateisation of public enterprises. The concession within the meaning of these laws is a public private enterprise in which a public contract regulates the commercial use of natural wealth, i.e. goods in general use which are in public property or in the exercise of the general interest, which is provided by the competent authority and by that public body and which confers on the domestic or foreign person for a specific period of time under specific conditions, with the payment of concession fees. We must agree that these are rigorous rights, but they are the only and only possible ones. The concession for works within the meaning of this law is a legal relationship governed by a contract which is subject to the performance of works or the design of the performance of works, which concerns one or more of the activities of a particular law governing the individual concessions or activity listed in Annex 2 to the Law, which regulates public procurement if the public works compensation consists of or from the right to commercial use of works or from that right, together with payment. A concession for services, which the Minister also spoke of, within the meaning of this law, is a legal relationship governed by a contract which is subject to the provision of one or more services in the general interest or by a certain law governed by certain concessions, or by the services listed in Annex 1 to the Act and which are governed by public procurement if the compensation for the services provided consists of or of the right to commercial use or to provide services or from that right, together with payment. We are today considering a consistent regulation on public-private partnership, given that according to the World Bank's criteria, we have taken 92nd place on business terms from 183 ranked countries. Our position deteriorated compared to the previous year, when we were in 88 places. It is a fact that, above all, such a ranking of Serbia rules for the work of enterprises in the public economy, starting with the establishment and business and the economy, through international trade, tax and contribution payments, to resolving the issue of credibility and the economy on the domestic and ino market. We must highlight the fact that Serbia also has some positive estimates regarding overall economic activities. First of all, this refers to the speed of establishment of the company, to the registration of immovable property, to the participation in international trade through imports, to obtain building permits, to obtain energy connections, to conduct contracts and to address the insolvency of partners and to pay tax obligations and bases. Reforms that cannot wait include several priorities the government should propose, and parliament to consider and adopt laws on them. One of those laws is the one we're considering today. These are all issues of system law, and one of them, which must be followed by an emergency procedure, is certainly the Law on Public Partnership. Let us remind ourselves that the Law on concessions was adopted now far away in 2003. At that time, the basic principles for granting concessions and partially resolved relations in the public-private sector are laid down. As a society and state, we have defined ourselves to promote public-private partnership, primarily in the area of public infrastructure building and providing services in the public interest, then, to provide quality services of public importance, and to ensure optimal efficiency and efficiency and economic efficiency in terms of the total costs associated with ownership of public infrastructure and the provision of services of public importance. The law we recently passed on property is just talking about it. The PUPS Group believes that this law will also form an effective mechanism, which will allow all levels of government to implement projects agreed through a public-private partnership, with or without elements of concession based on clear rules. In particular, we think that the participation of domestic and foreign investors and banks in financing and managing projects of general interest for Serbia will be ensured. The law on public-private partnership and concessions provides Serbia with a good legal framework for a transparent tender procedure, in which all bidders will have equal treatment and equal right to seek and provide private partners. In particular, we stress the fact that this law is definitely in line with international regulations and standards, as well as best international practice with our legal environment, with full compliance with EU and world rules, especially in the field of public procurement and which has long been the subject of general interest in our society and the subject of criticism in terms of eliminating the source of corruption and organised crime. A good solution is the legislation, which includes a public-private partnership as long-term co-operation in order to ensure financing, construction, reconstruction, management and maintenance of infrastructure facilities, of undeniable public and social interest for our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state trusts in a public-private partnership and a large series of obligations to provide financing for the construction of infrastructure facilities, and, above all, conveys the obligation to design and build, and later manage, maintain these facilities. Real rights and concession rights issues are regulated in accordance with other positive regulations in our legislation and contain conditions and how they will be applied in public-private partnership and concessions and will be defined in the new establishment of a company, which is created between a public and private partner, as well as in the application of the rules on founding contracts, on the rights of availability in shares, i.e. actions of funds for special purposes. The PUPS Group proposes that the Ministry and Government accept a number of amendments, which improve the proposed solutions, and above all those amendments respecting the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, Energy, Mining, etc. In voting day, our parliamentary group will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62456	It was used 17 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62457	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as the authorised representative of the Manjin Parliament Club and the SVM, I will base myself on one of the two laws we are discussing, the draft laws we are discussing together. I will rely on the draft law on public-private partnership and concessions. We have before us one draft law which, as we have heard, should provide a comprehensive legal framework for establishing a partnership between the public, on the one hand, and private, on the other hand, with one basic goal, which is to meet the needs of the population. We are all witnessing that in our environment, the most I think about the neighbouring countries here, we are already seeing a growing number of successful projects, which are being successfully built or renovated through this model of public-private partnership. This opens up many new opportunities for development. In the Republic of Serbia, however, as we have heard, so far unfortunately, there has been no adequate legal support in connecting public and private, in the areas of joint design, financing, construction, reconstruction, management or maintenance of both infrastructure and other facilities, which are of public importance and providing services of public importance. Currently in force, the Law on concessions, which, as we heard from the introduction of the Minister, was adopted in 2003 and which would cease to apply by adopting this new proposal for a law on public-private partnership and concessions, did not satisfy the needs. In this respect, the authorities were very often forced to apply a number of other laws that touched that area, in cases where they intended to establish public and private or concession cooperation on the use of goods or on the exercise of the general interest. The bill that we are discussing should open up really new development opportunities, as well as allow for exactly the right institutionalisation of a public-private partnership, because cooperation between public and private can have both current and long-term positive results, through the use of the ability of a private partner here, first and foremost, we think of both in the technical and management innovations of the private partner. It's certainly crucial, we'll all agree on that, attracting private capital. We of SVM have a small grudge against this bill. We have submitted one amendment, which I will make very brief on later, but here I must stress that, since we are of course in favour of joining our country, we hope that the adoption and application of this law will make it easier for the Republic of Serbia and the use of EU funds, which are unfortunately not yet fully open to the Republic of Serbia. As we all know, for the sake of the public, I want to point out, when our country gets candidate status, in addition to the first two components of the IPA pre-accession fund, which are related to cross-border co-operation projects and projects for the construction of institutions, the third component that relates to regional co-operation and for which we will be able to use, we, the Republic of Serbia, only if we are able to implement projects precisely with these activities, works of general interest, such as building of transport infrastructure, environmental infrastructure and municipal services. All this is possible only through essential regionalisation, which SVM advocates and essential regionalisation is the only real development option, both the EU and those at the door of the EU. A good law should provide adequate incentives for development, and this proposed law will certainly do so and therefore we support it. As an MP to the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, I must stress that I am regionally, more precisely, able to call it a duchy aspect, that we can find with relief that this bill is one of the few that is fully consistent, that this proposal truly respects all levels of government, from the Republic of Serbia through an autonomous province, to local self-government, both in terms of giving consent to the approval of projects and in terms of control, or in terms of the realisation of public contracts, in terms of this law and in full respect of the Law on Public Property. It is good, then, that the positive side of the proposal is that the concession fee paid by the concessionary is the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as the budget of the autonomous province or the unit of local self-government, as well as that right after the concessional relationship, facilities, devices, installations and other funds from the concession issue become property, both the Republic of Serbia, so-called autonomous provinces, i.e. local self-government units. In short, I might be able to say that this proposal is a very good one, since we have heard that it is in line with international standards, it is well implemented, an applicable law that is applied in many European Union countries, and we hope that this application will have a positive impact on us as well. Our complaint concerns the Commission for Public and Private Partnership, mentioned by the Honorable Mr. Minister. The proposal for a law on public private partnership and concessions provides – expert assistance in the implementation of projects of public, private partnership and concessions under this law is carried out by the Commission for Public and Private Partnership. The Commission is educated by the government on a proposal from various ministries, first on a proposal from the Prime Minister's Office. That's where I wanted to ask the question -- what does the cabinet of the Prime Minister mean, but we got a partial answer from you. Furthermore, on a proposal from the ministry responsible for economic and regional development affairs, the finance departments responsible for infrastructure operations, mining, municipal activities, environmental protection, autonomous province and the city of Belgrade. It is probably supervised that our main concern is that this control body, meaning the so-called commission, has nine members, and of those nine members, the autonomous province has the right to propose all of one, so that we are in ours, because we believe that this does not mean that this participation is in no proportion, the share of Vojvodina in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, we have proposed that we do not want to bring down the whole concept and we are aware that the Commission should have nine members. The proposal is to delete that one member, on a proposal from the Prime Minister's Office, and to add, that the Commission may have two members on the proposal of an autonomous province. I see I'll get an answer from Mr. Secretary. So much for a grudge. You are aware that this number, a small number, is indeed, but we are unfortunately aware that the current practice is such that in most such and similar committees, the autonomous province has all one member, and you are probably aware that we are the ones who should have suggested at least an increase, that it is not forgotten that the autonomous province is making a greater share of Serbia's economy. The basic elements of the public private partnership are minimal - the required quality and standard of services and works in the public interest of the users of services, as well as adequate security of the public partner's interest. Last week, when we discussed the Law on Community Works and the Law on Mining and Geological Research, we discussed that it was really very difficult to secure public interest and attract private investment. The proposal therefore states that private partners are guaranteed the rights laid down by law, both by public contract and by contract of project financing, and if the private partner is a foreign person, then they are, therefore, entitled to provide international investment incentives and protection contracts, which are in force. This bill came about because of the need, as we heard, to build new infrastructure, by investing in good on general use, as well as by providing services of general interest. One of the basic reasons why it was necessary to pass this new law is to increase demand for private sources of funding for these projects. Due to lack of public funding and insufficient funding from state authorities to develop and modernise travel and municipal infrastructure enough, it is necessary to really improve both legal and economical mechanisms, in order to attract the necessary private investment of domestic and foreign investors, as well as banks for the financing and co-financing of these projects. It is necessary to enable all levels of government to implement projects through a public private partnership. The involvement of the private sector is, we agree, very significant. As we have pointed out here several times, I would like to say that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians supports the proposal, precisely because it is fully in line with international standards and the best international practice of financing construction, reconstruction, management or maintenance of infrastructure and other facilities. What's very interesting and what I have to point out is that the proposal also states that concessions can be stopped by confiscation of concessions, and in cases where the concessionary does not carry out a concession activity for more than a year, that it does not carry out a contract of commitments, but also for various other reasons, such as public security, in the event that a concession of activity endangers the environment, human health, etc. Determined responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance Affairs, i.e. the authorities of the Autonomous Province, or the units of local self-government, in charge of the financial affairs, to initiate the supervision procedure independently, in accordance with their legal powers, of course. It is further defined and the public partner's obligation to continuously monitor and monitor the realisation of the public contract, to collect periodic reports from the private partner. I would like to stress once again that the drafting of the text of the law has been used, that comparative solutions and experiences of neighbouring countries in the region and other international experiences have been analysed. In addition to demands for new public infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, it has contributed to considering funding for public infrastructure projects, private financing. In addition, several speakers have already mentioned the lack of public funding and the insufficient resources of state authorities to develop and modernise road and municipal infrastructure, which has just led to the need to put in place without delay, means, under the urgent establishment of the necessary legal and economic mechanisms to attract private investments as soon as possible. On the other hand, it is necessary to provide security to this particular private capital, that it will succeed in restoring these investments. To sum up, the three main objectives of the adoption of public-private concessions law are to build public infrastructure and provide services in the public interest, provide quality services of public importance, as well as attract domestic and foreign investors and banks to finance, co-financing, and lead projects of general interest. In short, the bottom line is that by applying this law, budget funds will be used in a much more efficient way, and the services provided to citizens will be better quality. Let us not forget that a public partner needs to have a fully responsible private partner. The main goal of all of us is to protect the public interest, but to provide the necessary private investment. The SVM has one amendment and we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62458	14 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group have been used. The word has Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62459	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I just want to underline something you said. It is a great pleasure to be present, on the one hand, in this home. A clear recognition of what we all care about, and that is clear, precisely all adequate levels of government are adequately and directed through these solutions both in the assignment and in the achievement of interest and in the supervision. But for those interested in monitoring Parliament's chronicles, thank you for underlining article 65, where from this discussion it is clear, I suppose, that you agree, too, that the quality of the solution is much more important than the quantity of the members. What were we talking about? I say to the chroniclers, I think this is the first time in the history of parliamentaryism that we have jointly found that, explaining the law, we have brought objections to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62460	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62461	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is often referred to as a new way of public infrastructure, but it dates back to the 18th century as the concept of privatization of public infrastructure. The most common form of concessions was those that were made by governments of undeveloped states with large global companies. The beginnings of concessionary development in Serbia have come from the 19th century, more specifically from 1859, when a French exploitation company in Majdanpek won a concession for 30 years, and a later Belgrade city awarded a concession to an Italian tram transport company. After World War II, until the 1990s, there were no examples of concessions in Yugoslavia, and a concession was also known from 1991, when the bridge was built on Drina - "Palovića Cupria", when the concession was awarded for 30 years, and the concessionary financed and built the bridge and thus gained the right to charge the toll. Certainly, in the conditions of the need to improve infrastructure and better quality public service provision, and in conditions where there is insufficient budgetary resources, which is unfortunately the case in the Republic of Serbia and in many countries, a public private partnership, as an idea that in areas where it is possible to link the risk distribution that needs to be provided by the public sector and the increased efficiency that needs to be provided by the private sector, can be a really significant momentum for fostering the economy and faster development of infrastructure and public services. This can certainly be a solution in Serbia for most of the problems it has, for example, in municipal action. There are known data that around 60% of the apartments in Serbia are not connected to the sewer system, 40% of the apartments do not have an organised disposal, and about 20% of the apartments are not connected to the water supply system. Positive experiences and comparative indicators tell us that a model of public private partnership, as one joint public sector operation with the private sector, to produce public products and public services, can offer one more economical and efficient public service provision, unlike those of the traditional ones that exist. It can be one idea, i.e. an idea aimed at constantly improving and finding effective ways to provide public infrastructure and provide public services. Such a model of public private partnership can also be a good instrument for reforming the public sector, and can certainly make it possible to get enough good infrastructure facilities, without using insufficient budget resources. What can be even more important is that available budgets can thus be freed for some other needs. Suitable areas for public private partnership are certainly infrastructure, construction, energy, municipal activity, education and waste management. Public private partnership can be, I deliberately use this term – it can be, because later on, I will explain why I use this term, there is a certain retention, a welcome financial instrument for improving local infrastructure, when it comes to kindergartens, schools, sports halls, markets and everything else that makes infrastructure in one local self-government, because, unfortunately, our local self-government is currently facing growing needs and growing needs, on the one hand, and on the other hand there is an inadequate income structure, there are large projects that cost a lot of money and, of course, certain restrictions in borrowing local self-government. Of course, under such conditions, the possibility of the municipality assigning a location is also welcome and private capital is designed and built in that location. Or, for example, an example like Varazdin, in neighbouring Croatia, where public buildings are entrusted with building and maintaining private capital, in return for paying a monthly fee in the next 20 to 30 years. Of course, the concession, as a legal relationship between the state and the domestic or foreign legal person, as a concessionary, in which the State confers on that person the right to use natural wealth or good in the general application which is defined by law as the property of the Republic of Serbia or to carry out certain activities of general interest on a given deadline and a certain fee, can certainly represent one momentum for faster development and an increase in national income in general. It is particularly important here to say that concessions are very important when it comes to foreign persons, because in this case these concessions are actually one form of foreign investment, and I would like to remind the Republic of Serbia of the importance of this type of concession in the coming period of some 2.5 billion euros in direct foreign investment, which we can certainly conclude on the importance of this type of concession. In order for all of this to be possible in Serbia, institutional and legal infrastructure is necessary. The first step was taken back in 2003, when the Law on concessions, which was expected to show some weaknesses in application, was passed. The second step is this law, i.e. the draft law, which is in principle debate today, the proposal for a law on public private partnership and concessions. It is important to say that it is certainly not enough to create a favourable environment and a legal administrative environment for the development of public private partnership and concessions. In fact, practice and experience in countries where such legislation is applied says that this regulation should also be followed by certain regulations regarding the engagement of the private sector. It is very important that there are strategies at all levels, strategies through which priorities can be located, and it seems to me that this will be strong, that all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, all local self-government have their own development strategies and focus on priority objectives. Of course, it is very important how certain public procurement procedures are defined and certainly the issue of municipal autonomy and property. We have offered some solutions to the Law on Public Property here. When it comes to public procurement, as far as I know, some new solutions are in the procedure, and strategies remain something that everyone in the Republic of Serbia needs to pay attention to. Central and Eastern European countries have developed a complex legal framework for public private partnership during the 1990s. EU members themselves have different approaches. More modality has been used. Let's say, there was special legislation in Slovenia, Ireland, Germany, Greece, Poland, Croatia, Romania and, I suppose, we too, when this House adopts this law, will join this group of countries that have resolved this issue in this way. I think this is a solution compared to the others, which I will mention, more practical and more operational and respects some social political environment that is currently in the Republic of Serbia. There were also solutions to address these issues within the existing procurement legislation, as was the case in Italy, France and Denmark. Then, adapting existing laws to new requirements, as did the Czech Republic and Hungary, and there were some kind of one-time decisions, defined by Belgium. I have a feeling that expectations in the public, and in general the needs, are really big, but I think it should be objective and realistic, so to say that there are countries like Chile and Korea that 70% and 90% of projects, all projects, are realised through a public-private partnership. Some analyses should be mentioned, very serious, which say that there is not enough good evidence that can confirm the benefits of a public-private partnership and point to finding some better funding ways. Great Britain is one of the first countries to affirm this way of funding projects and has quite good results, but in addition to these good results, certain problems have been seen, above all, that in certain private companies' projects they made enormous profits, which was at the expense of the state, that some projects were made below British standards, of course, with the desire to unwarranted minimumise costs, and in terms of increasing profits. It has also been observed that workers who moved from the public sector to the shoulders of private capital have come to a reduced profit and have been given the opportunity to deny their rights. Of course, all of this should be taken into account when we talk about successful projects that are a public-private partnership and in this very UK, which I mentioned, and in the countries in the environment, which are very close to us, let's say, Croatia and BiH, which had very successful projects when it comes to building highways, schools, sports halls, kindergartens, waste management etc. What is necessary, in the view of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club, for these mentioned negative phenomena to be seen in practice, is a tender procedure that promotes a competitive and fair conduct of the process, the availability of several suppliers, consistent respect for the prescribed principles of the law in Article 5, where transparency, equal and fair treatment, free competition and protection of public interest, are mentioned above. We therefore believe that, in addition to the full transparency of this process, one permanent control is necessary, in terms of one type of prevention, respecting the negative experience that the state of Serbia had during the transition period, above all, privatisation in which we had a lot of negative phenomena. We think that in this way we could get an attractive environment in Serbia for public-private partnership, new investments and the necessary instrument, a good instrument, for public sector reform, and of course we could soon see positive results of this kind of financing the construction of new highways, schools, sports halls, arranged dumps, markets, much better services. The SPS-JS has submitted three amendments to Articles 11, 17 and 65. In my presentation, I didn't talk about the details of the law. We will use the debate in particular to discuss in more detail certain members of this law, and given the arguments put forward when it comes to public-private partnership, the SPS-JS Parliament Club feels that one such law should be adopted and certainly expresses its principled support for the PPP and concessions bill, because we consider it a necessary and sufficient framework for the positive affirmation of the PPP in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is of paramount importance that the state of Serbia joins the WTO. Amendments and additions to the Foreign Trade Act go in the direction of providing conditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to this organisation, in particular through amendments which respect the principle of non-discrimination, quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, then, through a simpler procedure for issuing licences and requires as simple a procedure as possible, i.e. addressing only one body or no more than three. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Trade also respects the recommendations of the units to implement comprehensive regulation reforms and goes towards simplification of business, in particular to domestic economic operators. As a result, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Trade has the support of the SPS-JS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62462	It was used 15 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62463	First, I'm going to talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreign Trade. Of course, we are against this bill, and I would now briefly like to state the reasons why we are against and to make a number of arguments that will convince the majority's MPs not to vote for this law for a living head. Hope, just pay attention. In terms of this law you wrote, I would ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to hear this well, you say, "European Commissions, in the context of the process of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the WTO", whether anyone can understand this, among other things, say something more specifically to define in our Law on Foreign Trade. "The suggestion to improve the text of the law, with the aim of its full compliance with WTO requirements, has been given by other members of this organisation – the United States." Well, cheers! The EU kidnaps KIM, the United States kidnaps KIM, you listen to them, and you do everything on their orders. Why am I telling you this? Because, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the AP KiM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The whole Republic of Serbia is a unique customs area. So, the territory in which the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia is exercised, a view of territorial integrity, is also a customs area ruled by the Republic of Serbia. As far as KIM's territory is concerned, we have a good partner, and that's the Security Council. We don't have a third partner. So you're working on a warrant, by order of those who break up our country. Of course the bill can't be good. Why would they suggest a good solution? They have no interest in giving good solutions, but in pressing to make you do what you want to do, which would be better for those who make a false state. All the changes you're proposing here have that goal. Let's get in line. You made this statement and you say it is in line with the provisions of the SAA between the European Community and their states and the Republic of Serbia. Yes, that's why we were against the ratification of the agreement on 5 September 2008. There was only one "zumbul" that supported the ratification law, so Wikiliks later told us that Miki Rakic had recruited him six months before. Then you made that Advanced Party. It further says that it is in line with the transitional agreement on trade and trade issues, etc. Yes, but under the agreement, we have lost customs and hundreds of millions of euros for several years now our budget has been lost as income based on customs and is essentially losing our economy, which is not protected from unfair competition coming from Western Europe. They're okay with the deal. They've expanded the market where they can sell their goods and they're satisfied. Why? They've got big surpluses. They're selling goods. And you measure, by one agreement, by other agreements, by regulations, by congruentity, by forcing citizens of the Republic of Serbia to buy foreign goods. Of course, you've strengthened the import lobby. When you look at the functioning of our banking system, you see that the National Bank of Serbia is tasked with protecting importers and bankers. Where are your citizens in this policy? They're gone. I'm not surprised when you can vote from Bodrum without doing this. When you can say 250,000, we'll hire and then 450,000 fire. When you say we're God-given, vote for us 1,000 euros of free action, and then we hear a joke, we cheat on you. So we're in the field of fraud. That's what you need to know. This European Commission and the EU are currently working on two parallel processes. They submit a report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia towards joining the EU and also submit a special report on Kosovo's progress towards the EU. You can't possibly not know that. Well, all the papers have been published. There's no newspaper that hasn't published it. This means that the EU puts Serbia in the same basket and independent Thaci's Kosovo. They treat us like we're partners. You see what this is about, and you're pushing this. Now you say there's going to be a need to simplify that technology. Now the branches of companies can also be entities of external trade. Where did you get that idea, I don't get it at all. Where do you come from with the idea that something that has no legal subjectivity can be a subject in these affairs, and the Foreign Trade Act regulates, above all, the regimes of goods and services with abroad and part of it, something about the balance of payments. When talking about the Law of Foreign Trade, foreign trade is also talked about the ministries that are in charge, customs is also talked about, and also to the National Bank of Serbia as a payment controller to abroad, as a controller, primarily banks. What else did you write here? I was just surprised. Please, today you're proposing a bill like this. So the British Parliament is thinking about how to get the UK out of the EU. They want to discuss the referendum. There is no greater enemy of the EU than Britain, you know. So 300 years they've been blocking that Europe. But you don't read books, you read the Internet, you read public opinion research. Well, you see, in other countries of Western Europe, they make their dots, they make their own new currency. They're raising their hands from the euro. You are the EU's last base of defense. Switzerland, Norway doesn't want to hear the EU, what the devil. Who has ratified you all that Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Because besides the European community and each country individually needs to be done. Only those with an economic, economic and other interest in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They've got to suck your ass about the signatures, about this, about that, to the will. Explain to us how you think to implement these amendments and the additions of this law in the territory of AP KiM, when you send a message, the customs stamp applies at crossings number 2 to number 30 and you are struggling not to presume to be the Cypriot customs officers at crossings number 1 and 31. What kind of politics is that? You are interested in sovereignty only on Jarinj and on Brnjak. Where's that thing at the Bujanovac? Where's that Merdar thing? Where are they crossing towards Albania, according to Macedonia, towards Montenegro? You're not interested in normatively, or termnologically, without speaking in essence. What are we talking about, people? You have in the last month made the situation that goods coming from Serbia to Kosovo Mitrovica are at least 25% more expensive than they would have bought from someone from Pristina. You know that? Well then you declare all the criminals on the barricades. How come criminals when you in every place in the land zone have both the police and the financial police, and absolute control of traffic and humanitarian traffic. If there are criminals, who else made them except those who are in power. What are we talking about? The story of the customs stamp, so a year and a half ago we warned you not to enter that story at all. You held secret negotiations in Paris through the Ministry of Finance, along with intermediaries. Who's your chief mediator, Robert Cooper? Thaci's personal advisor in Rambuje. Look at all the Rambuje movies, the one that's got the wrong head moving left, right, that's Robert Cooper. How dare you sit down and talk to that man. I don't know why you'd raise your hand to this law. Imagine what new terminology is about us in Serbia to ensure respect for the principles of non-discrimination? This is not a proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination, these are amendments and additions to the Act on Foreign Trade. If you wanted to say it, then you could say it – security of equality and equality. No, it's a new termology, it's like a whole new thing. It's like a sex-deviant job. It's something amazing what you're doing. It goes on to say – the treatment of the most privileged nation. Tell me, that's original Article 6, what would that look like on Kim? I expect a representative of the government to come out and say, "We can no longer endure these primitive free discussions of Serbian radicals," and now we will answer you in person that this law will apply to KIM. No, there's no answer. We also asked you the same question when it was the Law on travel documents, and when it was the Law on the ID card and when there were other regulations. I'll tell you right now, a helicopter is something that's recognizable. In KIM territory, when that green helicopter passes, they know it's KFOR, so whether it's Croatian, Slovenian, American, German, etc., but they know that KFOR, when a blue helicopter passes, counts as police, is this Shiplar. Did you know they're flying red now? They're private helicopters, rented by Thaci. Why? That when this scam is over – we take off the barricades, we release KFOR and Eulex on condition that they don't drive customs, e, those reds will bring customs officers to the crossings of both Brnjak and Jarinje. Everybody knows that in KIM territory. And you want to negotiate. About what? Land books, home books, what are you negotiating? You see how dangerous it is when you negotiate. Here it is mentioned in one article, some exceptions, and here it is said, a free trade agreement, a customs union agreement, etc. Free zones. Come on, please, work it out. Set it up with your friends, if you need that kind of economic co-operation, but no. When it is said that in Nis, a base for emergency situations will immediately be jumped by individuals from the government and said -- Russia's military base, according to a Russian Russian Russian Russian Russian Russian service, said yesterday. Rusification of Serbia, you have carried out the Americanisation, the Armenianisation, the decreation, the decreation, the euroisation, these are all synonyms for losing a job, for denying it. These are all synonyms for these students. Imagine, one generation of young politicians struggled for Bologna, meanwhile graduated, from the current of Bologna left only the obligation for parents who now have students, they should pay. That's what your fight gave us. Every day, it gets harder and harder because we live by European standards. Furthermore, you say here that exceptions are from the principle of foreign trade, so now it is said that some measures are possible, it is said – measures are needed to protect public morality, okay. Protecting the lives and health of people, animals or plants. And let me tell you right now, in this room in 2001, the SRS led an action against imports of genetically modified varieties, etc., soy buckshots. Ivan Dulic, Saša Vitosevic, etc. So it was funny, so there was a replica, so it was Europe, so you don't know what Europe is, so on and so on. So it's been a few years, and I think Predrag Markovic was the president of the Assembly when we passed the law and ratified a convention and passed a law where we forbid it in our territory. Is that what happened? Now, you see how many European standards for a change in two years, like Kasalovic used the example of this mayor from Varazdin, someone else is going to explain to him what happened to this Varazdin. That blending, private, public, partnership. Like we don't know what it looks like. You'll hear in the second part what it looks like with us. It says measures refer to products made in prisons. Do you intend to move our entire economy to prisons? I don't know. Based on what you've written, it seems that the perspective of the Serbian economy or agriculture is that those who deal with this activity are in prison, so to preserve our production, then we can introduce measures towards someone else. And you are aware of the situation that none of our companies can open any significant drive in your brotherly Slovenia, in yet warm fraternization of Croatia, Ivo Josipovic, Sanader. You know, some have boasted they're Serbs, they're for the war, like the one who said, "Zumbul," he says. Sanader ends up in jail. And that's how they're gonna end up. That way everyone will finish who forgot about his people. Let's move on. Protecting non-renewable natural resources. Well, that's where you totally blew it. You're totally here. So you are in this privatization, not that you gave what is on earth, not what is above the earth, not what is two metres underground, but what is 50 kilometers underground. You gave it all away. He's still saying. Measures concerning the restriction of the export of raw materials, i.e. Standardly something like that can exist, you can take measures for product shortages, let's see what it's like. There's a dilber that's being installed right away. Now. You know, in the agricultural food complex who the bosses are. You know how these bosses came to be. They just had to be close to their respective ministries. We have one ministry where the third minister has come to keep the business interests of the Victoria Group. So everything in that ministry can change, but the regressed supply of artificial fertilizer, etc., has to be done at the Vicotrie Group. I don't know who the boss is. Then, under point 11, measures are introduced to protect security if they relate to one another, arms trafficking. Now let me tell you right now, this unfortunate Shutanovac for whatever he's caught up in a military-industrial complex was either a fire or an explosion or a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62464	Thank you. The time foreseen for the group has been spent. The word is made by Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62465	Just about the dictionary used in the law, which you turned your attention to, or how Serbian-language lovers get a vocabulary, right? So it's not dilber, it's bilder, but both words are pretty useful sides to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62466	I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted by the SRS and ZES parliamentary groups. I give my word to the People's MP, Mr. Milorad Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62467	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, here we are today discussing two laws. One and the other are unacceptable to the SRS, on a number of grounds and I will try several sentences in one law and another to point to the failure of both laws. What is even more important, when all this is happening in Kosovo, regarding the collapse of the political administrative and economic sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, we are dealing with changes and additions to something that no letter covers the biggest problem in the country right now, which is the problem of KIM. Now that we're talking about KIM, we need to stress the essence of political, administrative and economic sovereignty. We have this sovereignty on paper but we don't have objectively, just because the government does nothing to restore both political and administrative and especially this economic and customs sovereignty within economic sovereignty. Why won't he come back? Because there is the EU, its institution, because NATO is there, because it is present for us, or for the rule of friendly Croatia. The biggest absurd tragedy for this power is that Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor goes to the prime minister, so-called. The government of KIM also says -- it welcomes its dear esteemed friend, the executioner Thaci, and addresses parliamentarians and tells the public KIM and says Croatia and KIM, that is, Kosovo's people have always ruled friendship, so that in Kosovo two peoples who have the best friendships. That's what you keep quiet about here. So no one said a single sentence. With everything that violates our sovereignty, with everything that's disrupting the relationships that are here to say, I must mention the CEFT agreement here, you haven't said a single sentence here. The CEF Agreement is an agreement ratified in this Parliament, an international legal act, a act signed by UNMIK on behalf of KIM and the institutions under the provisions of this Agreement can only be the institutions of the international verification, which is UNMIK. However, UNMIK is no longer there. You accepted Eulex, you accepted a brand-new government configuration, and everything went to hell. What's the point? The point is that, by losing political sovereignty in KIM, we allowed this same Croatia that it, which signed in 1996, agreed on normalisation of relations and committed to fostering such relations in which each other will cultivate territorial sovereignty. How could it be allowed, and how the government could allow itself to allow Croatia to recognise the sovereignty of KIM, call KIM and the independent government of KIM without the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia doing anything. Under the system of reciprocity and under this agreement and free trade agreement, you had to recognise the Republic of Serbia's landscape within the borders between 1991 and the tragic accident of the Serbian people in 1995, known military-police activities "Blesk" and "Storm". That's what a normal country does. This country obviously doesn't have a government that would be normal to change this situation. A free trade agreement was signed between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia in 1998. Under the agreement, Croatia cannot enter the way they are now with its goods and its services to KIM. This Agreement shall be disrupted, disrupted and the CEFTA Agreement, etc. Did a single protest note go by the state institution of the Republic of Serbia towards Croatia? It's not. Did a single protest note go against what Croatia is doing in the external trade sense towards Serbian companies? Over 200 companies work here and who knows how many representations and who knows how many natural persons you now adopt this law. It's a simple representation. A natural person can deal with foreign trade, etc. You opened this market. This isn't our market anymore. We don't have customs sovereignty, we don't have economic sovereignty anymore. We're stuck like Swiss cheese. These are the results of this government's activities. All of this is done under the pressure of the EU and the European institutions and America. That's tragic. Let's now go back to some financial indicators that talk about a catastrophic situation where the state's finances are precisely because you don't respect the signed agreements, you don't respect or apply reciprocity to those who threaten our economic and customs sovereignty. In 2008, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Transitional Trade Agreement were signed. According to the 2008 budget, customs revenues were supposed to be 72 billion dinars. Since the application began very quickly in the end, it all came down to about 40 billion. Since 2009, it has mainly been spinning in about 40 billion. We lose about 400 billion euros every year on this basis. It's only customs revenue, but the greatest harmfulness isn't customs. The greatest harm is that, opening the market, we allowed foreign companies to come here, import goods and close the possibility of placing our goods. The damage is two or three times greater. If I say it's 400 times four years, it's a billion and 600 million, so times two or three. Do you see now what kind of crash we're talking about in the area of customs and in the area of income that we're making on the basis of the area of production, etc. The data you have on your 2011 budget is the best way to talk about it. Incomes based on VAT, based on the tax collected in the country are slightly over 100 billion, and revenues collected from imports are close to 250 billion. All 40% of the goods and services we produce here, and imports are far higher. You see, through customs policy, we are destroying the financial system and the political and administrative and economic security of this system. Even more catastrophic is the data when we talk about exporting per capita. Only Albania is under us in Europe. She's got about 1145 euros. We are somewhere at 1820 euros, BiH near 2000, Macedonia near 2000, Montenegro 2220. Here we are, and the Montenegrins have crossed us. Isn't that tragic? It's from that piece of junk. It's from that piece of junk, and so on. The Montenegrins have 2220, so that's a shame. Who's taking care of it? You're proposing a law that should regulate these areas, but you're doing the opposite thing, allowing a simple representation, that a natural person, foreign or domestic, can deal with foreign trade. Where's that ever been? With all the indicators, economic, financial and customs that you have, with which you have, every government website has these data, every ministry site, you have these data, etc. and instead of creating legal regulations to limit the possibility, as Croatia does, as Slovenia does, as BiH does. For four years, BiH has put a customs barrier on meat imports, etc. We're only talking about customs, we're not talking about extra-carinal procedures that are the most prominent in Croatia. The goods in Croatia can't get out. We know how Jaffa went, how some other products went, etc. For the sake of banality, it is prohibited, etc. And in the end, two years later, it's been found to have been a mistake, etc., but there are no goods in those markets. Why don't we use those methods? Is that what Germany's using? Use it. Is that what Italy's using? Use it. Here's how with stupid moves and stupid bill proposals we get in position. Even more tragic is the situation when we look at the data on the foreign trade deficit, and especially since 2001, when we imported enormously, but not the state, these were imported by individuals, imported by tycoons. Where did they import it from? From us hostile states, states that are turned against the interests of the Serb people and Serbian national interests. They broke domestic production, entered the domestic market, etc. Here from 2001 to 2011, we don't have the data until the end, but we're going to get over 35 deficits in foreign trade business, over 35 billion euros. Only during the work of this government is the deficit in 2008 - 9.50 billion, 2009 - 8.152,000,000, 2010 - 5.230,000,000. In 2011, the deficit will be around 5,000,000 euros. Do you know what the means are? These are the funds of citizens who have entered the banking system. The banks gave it to the importers, and we know it's tycoons, etc. With national resources through the banking system, etc., all this has been imported. Unfortunately, that's how you do it. Only two more sentences on the draft law on public-private partnership and concessions. This law must be withdrawn. The law is empty. Before this law comes a strategy on public-private partnership, that we know clearly what can be done in the field of municipal economy, in the field of public-communal economy, what can be done in terms of the exploitation of mineral wealth and only then enter into the legislation of everything that has defined the strategy and practice that we have, which we must install into that law. We have a catastrophic situation in the area of municipal economy – a great responsibility and a system where municipalities for local self-government finance this. Do you think that when we get a private who will invest here funds that the level of municipal services and goods will be kept at this level? No way. We know what it's like when private capital comes to Serbia's premises, how it fertilizes and how prices increase, etc. Don't play, the communal economy, regardless of all the problems and the communal system has endured the burden and the war and the sanctions and all the problems and lives. Now it's best to leave it to the privates, so let them worry. No Croat, no Slovenian, no Hungarian, no Austrian who comes here will think about the interests as the local self-government thinks, as every councilman in the city and municipality assembly thinks, who have a situation and know what and how to save the citizens from price increases, etc. It's all going to the expense of these citizens and these local self-government, but we have a system in place. Don't ruin it. We will destroy it with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62468	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62469	The Honorable chairman, respected ministry representatives, fellow MPs, I just wanted to look back on the law on public-private partnership and concessions in order to also pass the benefits of this law on to citizens of Serbia. This law has its meaning in a series of laws that we have recently passed, above all, the Law on Public Property, and then the Law on Community Works, which is under way, and the amendments to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, in which we have recognised the developed, undeveloped, most underdeveloped, tax-based, transfer of these funds, the Law on Public Procurement and during this session and the Law on Mining and Geological Research. First of all, this law on public-private partnership plays a role in encouraging, encouraging investors and domestic and foreign ones to recognize where they can, on the principle of increasing the value of money, investment in infrastructure facilities and services, have their own interest. If local self-government has the capacity to finance their budgets in that project budgeting for a year, two, and it is clear to all that local self-government, including the state itself, does not have enough resources. Then it is clear that this law is coming at a great time and that it can affect encouragement, encouragement and the development of a business environment in our country at a local level. First of all, this law regulates the rules regarding the Law on concessions that was previously, in which way the private partner recognises his interest, which is the procedure to lead, which is the best choice of partners in certain projects and most importantly, behind these decisions citizens should not be afraid, to worry whether their service prices will be higher or less. Is something going to change in that direction? But surely the business environment of local communities, the AP and the state themselves will lead to the efficient functioning of all municipal institutions in the Republic, for the simple reason – with a private partner it is clear, experience, practice says that what we once have too, employees of certain institutions, certainly a private partner will not allow it in a new company. It will also, in some ways, be more efficient because of the choice of projects and services, and will have its higher value, which means, on the principle of efficiency, on the principle of greater turnover and investment of service prices in any way, they can only be competitive. We can no longer observe whether prices will be at the level of local communities or AP or the Republic competitive. We're starting to depend terribly on the environment. All the funds we will use now or in the future, based on European funds or from European financial institutions, will be based in fact on competitiveness in relation to the environment, and even in the new criteria for the use of these funds, regional co-operation, i.e. cross-border co-operation, and even the co-operation of the Republic of the former Yugoslavia. The point, above all, is to create certain conditions for better quality of life for citizens, to recognize projects that will be important in the future in 50 or 100 years. If a man under this law can recognize the benefits, and only to mention how many specific cities on his or her surface, where they live, some have a water supply problem or some may have too much or have a problem with pollution or have a problem with constant disposal of solid waste. We recognize that our budget affects regional co-operation, when it comes to dumps, so they simply finance themselves, encourage certain projects where more municipalities are joined to address the problem of waste treatment, water treatment, water supply. The very protection of water supply is something that a single municipality in its own area does not solve, but is simply sometimes in space more municipalities that have an interest in providing clean drinking water for a long period of time because of their citizens and for the population. If only of these elementary things that appear daily, which impose on our citizens, we go, then it is necessary that this law, the advantages of the public-private partnership law, are encouraged by investors both domestic and foreign. For large infrastructure projects it is certain that foreign investors are also needed, for smaller infrastructure projects it is necessary to include local partners, it is necessary to include citizens themselves, which is also foreseen by this law, and that each of us be part of this process, which in some way enables a few or whole series of advantages that bring well-being to local communities. I'd just like to mention a few advantages that condition the effectiveness of this law. Our citizens should know that the application of these laws involves, above all, one political stability. At the local level, above all, where we have defined already in almost 46 municipalities of developed and underdeveloped, there is a need for certain political stability. It is necessary to regulate, first of all, the spatial plan based on that Space Plan that we adopted here in the Assembly and to recognise, based on the Law on Private, Public and Private Partnership, what are the priorities, which are the needs of citizens to prepare in the coming period through budgetary design and priority design, both at the local level and at the republican level, because, as far as we know, all these projects at the local level are partly or entirely based on funding from the Republic budget. For this reason, I would just like to point out and read today's information, in which the head of the Belgrade office of the European Investment Bank, Mr Andreas Bekels, announced an investment of around 100m euros for the next year, in the area of infrastructure of 50m and 50m for the implementation of solid waste management projects. First of all, I just want to point out that these funds can be obtained, can attract well-done projects, good co-operation at the level of municipalities, regional co-operation and, above all, by attracting investors through a public-private partnership. For this reason, within the DSS, the Sandzak Democratic Party will support this law and I hope it will be an encouragement for all our investors both domestic and foreign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62470	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting that in today's debate we have heard from the representatives of the government and the ruling majority of the many arguments that speak of the importance of the laws being discussed, but not a single word of what is happening at KIM. It's not like it's a question to talk about before everyone else, as if no one sees Serbs spending days and cold nights at barricades, and it seems only the representatives of the opposition see it. According to the Declaration adopted by the National Assembly on July 31st... (President: We all see it and we all know it all, but the Rules of Procedure obliges me to warn you on the subject of the agenda, and the Declaration, all of this, is not on the agenda. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll just remind you, because there were five days left until that deadline, within which the government was obliged to submit its first report after July 31st. The deadline hasn't expired yet, so there's only five days left, and we're going to remind and expect that report every day. Now I'm going to say something about the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Trade Act. We at the SRS Parliament Club, when we saw this bill, expected to see members 42, 43 and 46 being deleted and members 44 and 45 changed. Of course, we are talking about members of the Foreign Trade Act, which concerns the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. So, we expected the government to propose to delete members who define the existence of the agency and to amend members who talk about promoting foreign investment and promoting exports, by proposing that it be in the power of the Ministry of Economy and that these transactions take place within a particular sector. We think it's much cheaper because there's no director of the Agency and other expenses. Since a new Foreign Trade Act was adopted in May 2009, so just over two years ago, we calculated, it was the same government with the same objectives. At that time, this law, like all others, is presented as the best possible, in the best interests of citizens and has nothing to change, except to start slowly with the abolition of one agency at a time and that the first among them will be the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, which has existed since 2001. However, today's amendments and additions to the Law adopted two years ago are ahead of us, with the reason that this is done because of the European Commission's suggestion that it has given suggestions in the context of Serbia's accession process to the World Trade Organisation. Also, suggestions came from the United States as a member of the World Trade Organisation. When such a friendly country gives you such a well-intentioned suggestion, how can you not immediately approach the amendments to the Law? These are so many friends, that if they were to ask themselves, the Serbs should not be anywhere in Serbia, Belgrade or KIM. To understand correctly, the position of the SRS is that there is certainly much more work to do to increase exports, as well as attract investment, but there is not necessarily any agency for these jobs. As I said, within the Ministry, all of this can be well organized. It is a great expense, but it is not the most terrible thing to cost for agency employees, the thing is, by becoming a powerful institution, which, by the way, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise, one party gets too much power in its hands, to channel money to businesses through the institution. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the National Employment Service, the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, are all institutions held by one party in their hands, and you will admit it also provides great power. Power is not a mag, that money from a budget filled by all citizens through taxes, taxis, fines and other means goes to the chosen ones. This time when we are discussing the government's efforts to improve foreign trade, it should be mentioned that last year, 2010, the external trade deficit in Serbia was 5.2 billion euros. She boasted then that the government was 5.7% smaller than in 2009. The total exchange was worth 20 billion euros, an increase of 14.6% compared to 2009. Exports were 7.4 billion, which means it was higher by 24%, while imports amounted to 12.6 billion, which is more by 9.7% than in 2009. Import coverage was 58.5% while in 2009 it was 52%. These data are not really something to be boasted about, as they are due to the reduction of the purchasing power of citizens. At the beginning of this year, between January and April, according to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the external trade deficit was 2.6 billion dollars and was 10.3% higher compared to the same period of the previous year. Exports increased by 32.5%, reached a value of 3.7 billion, and imports increased by 22.4% and amounted to 6.3 billion dollars. The Republic Bureau of Statistics has also shown what the structure of imports and exports looks like. In the export structure, products for reproduction are dominated by 70.1%. Then goods for a wide consumption of 23.1% and equipment 6.8%. In the structure of imports are the most represented products for reproduction, traces of goods for wide consumption and equipment. In exports, the main foreign trade partners were Italy, where goods were exported for $471m, then Germany and BiH. In the import, the main partners were Russia, where goods worth $825.6m were imported, Germany $625.8m and Italy with 503,3m. Foreign trade was the largest with countries where we have signed free trade agreements. When we look at this structure, we see one illogicality. The SRS has repeatedly pointed to much greater opportunities for exports to Russia, especially because of the Free Trade Treaty. We have repeatedly expressed our suspicion that the government in Serbia deliberately does not want to use the benefits provided by the contract. We believe that because of the policy that the government is leading in its definition towards the EU, it deliberately abandons other countries where there is interest in our products, especially Russia. The data suggests that the highest deficit occurs in trade with Russia, due to imports of energy, primarily oil and gas. This directly damages Serbia's economy. I already mentioned that the Law on Foreign Trade defines the existence of the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, so it is officially the power to decide on support for businesses in Serbia, which are export-oriented. When we look at the affairs of the Export Promotion Sector of this agency, we see how it is beautifully written on what kind of support domestic small and medium-sized enterprises can count on, in order to increase their exports. Here, these days a contest for the 2011 award - exporter will be opened and awards will be awarded in four categories and one special prize. What you can see in the competition is that two categories of awards are worth 10,000 euros. I'm saying all of this because I want to make a comparison of how the Agency treats domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, and how it treats big investors, especially foreign ones. Here's what it says on the Agency's work site -- support for investors. Promoting investment opportunities and helping foreign investors to start or expand business in Serbia, SIEPAACTively works to develop domestic economy, through job creation, technology transfer and knowledge transfer, improving business governance and other benefits from foreign direct investment. What is most significant is that this agency allocates grants, depending on the number of new jobs. In the 2010 regulation, we see four groups. Investments in the manufacturing sector, realisation in devastated areas and areas of particular interest. The funds range from four to 10,000 euros per new job. The conditions are minimal and the value of investment is 500 000 euros, and the minimum number of new jobs is 50. Then the category is investment in the automotive, electronic or ICT industry. Then, in the manufacturing sector, realisation in other areas of the Republic of Serbia and investment in the service sector. There is a range of two to 10,000 euros. I'll just be a little bit more reminded of what happened in Leskovac a few years ago. At the time of the election campaign, the state gave incentive funds to the company Cloting, which was announced as a factory where three thousand people would be employed, 274 workers were employed, the owner fled, and SIEPA, the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments and Exports, remained in place for a million and 200 thousand euros. How much the citizens of Serbia cost a new investor, Fiat, is known to everyone, and I won't repeat it, a lot of the past years have been talking about it. These are just some examples of how the government behaves when it comes to budget money, opening factories at the time of election campaigns, and how all these stories will end, it is not much to worry about. Also, he doesn't care about the people who spend these cold nights on Kim's barricades. The government was obliged to submit a report, the National Assembly Declaration obliges, but there are no reports, but there are promises that there will be reports. We're just hoping it won't wait until the last day, October 31st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62472	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62473	During the debate of counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic, Mr. Novakovic, you have injured Article 27 and in relation to Article 106. Rules of Procedure. There was no legal basis or any other basis to break Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic's foundation, because we cannot in our discussions stick to some synopsis and only say what you would like to hear. We are here, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia. These days, extremely because of the Serbs with KIM. We are obliged to draw public attention to the devastating policy of the ruling Tadic regime in relation to the Serbs with KIM. I don't know if you know, Mr. Novakovic, that Boris Tadic was in talks with representatives of four Serb municipalities with KIM last night trying to convince them that the customs stamp had nothing to do with customs, that customs had nothing to do with the border. He tried to convince them and tell them – the dots don't apply, you know, they're very strong there, you were at the barricades, but if you don't get away they can be very dangerous. As far as the SRS is concerned, we say now, and that's what Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic and each of us, you from the ruling regime are also very dangerous for the state of Serbia, especially for Serbs at KIM. If you do not want and delay that session you are obliged to, please do not prohibit us from drawing attention to the citizens of Serbia as you treat Serbs in KIM and how Tadic left them at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62474	Two minutes. There is no violation of clause 27, which you know very well, because the only duty you have is to stick to the agenda, and it is my duty that whenever you do not adhere to the agenda I ask, warn, and draw attention. I didn't interrupt Mrs Dimitrijevic's presentation, I just warned her not to wander away and stick to the agenda. That's why I didn't end it, but I showed her it was the second time. You know it all very well. All this stuff you've said has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, or my running this session. I warn you not to abuse the right given to you by Article 103(1), because then I will be forced to apply that provision of Article 7 of the same article. I know you don't like warnings, but I repeat my gentleman's supervision and hope that we agreed that everyone said what they had. If you are not satisfied with this explanation, the Assembly will make a statement in the voting day. (The Faith of Radet, from the place: I would love to.) ) Therefore, the Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. I have Mr Milivojevic and Mrs Dimitrijevic reported in the electronic system. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62475	Mr. Novakovic, you certainly did not harm the Rules of Procedure, but the injured Rules of Procedure by Mrs. Verica Radete, who is...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62476	Mr. Milivoevich, I'm the only one who can hurt the Rules of Procedure because I currently chair. Thank you. Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62477	Mr. Chairman, for the second time, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27. - the dignity of the National Assembly, saying that I am a people's messenger who can go astray in the discussion. You have indeed hurt, and you have seriously damaged the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62478	The manner of exposure in the National Assembly is sometimes very colourful. The theme is interesting and can distract you. As soon as something gets out of the way, there's a danger and it goes astray. It is the presidency's obligation to focus always on the right path and on what is called the topic. It's not my idea to insult, not even the least of my mind to insult dignity. Maybe that expression is coloraturous and unusual, but believe me, I had no intention of doing anything below the level of conversation and debate in the National Assembly. Thank you for the suggestion, I'll avoid any future or similar expression. Are you satisfied? You're not satisfied. In that case, the National Assembly in the voting day will declare your objection. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62479	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I would like to talk about what the agenda topic is, despite the fact that the parliamentary group, which is dominant in its policy, has contributed to the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija today as it is, pours crocodile tears, with laughter, and their concern for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is likely to reflect their concern. I think it's really important that the law on public and private partnerships, because of the simple fact that we've been late for decades compared to the modern world and with the law being passed in this area. For what? Well, first of all, because public and private partnerships in the modern world play a very important role in the development of municipal and other infrastructures, in doing public affairs, so it is in countries like Chile, which will be some interesting, or Korea, level of co-operation in the development of public and private partnership infrastructures somewhere between 70% and 90% in all projects of this kind. Why is Serbia so late for so many decades by passing one of these very important laws? I'll tell you what's important. If you look at matters from the jurisdiction of the Republic today, you will see that the Republic has many prepared projects for many areas, which are of national importance, but there is no money. If you look at the province level, you will also see that there are a number of projects, that there is a political will to solve many life problems, but there is no money. Only if you look at local self-governments will you see how desperate people who run local self-government are because they really took their jobs with full energy, they want to do what's best for their community, but there's no money. Where can money be found? Well, of course, where there is one. And it's in the private sector. Can the public and private sectors be joined together? I can do that in all areas. For example, the extraordinary results of public and private sector co-operation in the modern world, the countries of the European Union, we see for the past few years that the economy of some Asian countries has been given above all in the area of traffic, such as the Vienna-Prag highway, which I have had the opportunity to go to, was built by co-operation of public and private capital. Bosnia and Herzegovina built most of the modern roads that way. Croatia has thus built the largest number of modern roads, many schools, many sports halls, some hospitals. Then, in the area of water supply, we know what the problems are at national level regarding water supply. If you go to a municipality, there is no municipality that does not have that kind of problem, including most of the suburban, Belgrade municipalities and most of the unurbanised Belgrade settlements that have problems, not only with water supply, but also with sewage and environmental protection, and with disposal and housing of municipal waste, etc. The same problems are in the area of urban traffic, and this law will certainly extend the scope for public and private partnership co-operation. On the basis of existing regulations, we had, in fact, public and private sector co-operation mainly in the area of disposal and housing of municipal waste, and these projects were successfully implemented, and I was on countless meetings, mostly at the level of administrative districts, where the presidents of municipalities from these districts tried to, first of all, build a modern sanitary dump in some location by all standards that included, not only cleaning and disposal of waste, but also environmental protection, but again the first initial problem, which is that there is no money. What's the point? It is likely to be realised through the project for the city of Belgrade. You know for a fact that several studies have been made about building a metro in Belgrade. I won't talk, France is an old civilization, since they have metro and many European countries. Belgrade, as one of the European capitals, is high time to start building the subways. The first studies on the capital needed to build the subway were about 600m euros, and the latest studies say a high-quality metro in Belgrade needs between one and two billion euros. I think it's in the process of building a study that will show not only how much money it takes but also what kind of idea projects they should be. I think this is also a significant law for Belgrade citizens, because finally this legal framework is being provided, since the state obviously has no money to build a Belgrade subway, that this way we finally get to the subway, that we finally start living as a normal world in terms of urban traffic, because I think today you will rarely meet a European capital in which, if it falls snow or if there is a traffic accident on Gazela or a foreign statesman comes along and they block some streets, that you can't travel from one end of town for two and a half or three hours without talking about people who are being harassed daily, live on one end of town, travel to the other end of town. I was almost visiting one of our ambassadors who told him that to get to the theatre in Belgrade and come back, it takes four hours, and there's lucky that his embassy is near the theater, so he can walk or methroom in a few minutes. What importance will this have for local self-government, for the province? First of all, many problems, I say in the areas of traffic, water supply, sewerage, waste collection and disposal, waste water treatment, urban traffic regulation, school construction, hospitals, etc., to be done in the field of public and private partnership co-operation. I'm going to mention an interesting case from Austria, in the city of Graz. Grac municipality had no money to reconstruct an extraordinary building owned by the city, an exceptional architecture building, and offered it to a private partner to do so. The procedure was carried out in a legitimate manner, a complete building was reconstructed by someone who had private capital, one time a private income was collected and of course he was to earn a certain profit for everything he had done, and then the building was returned to the city, at the end of the contract. I think if we go through not only Belgrade but all our cities, we'll see a lot of properties owned and local self-government, cities and republics waiting for their reconstruction, and there's no money for it. I think that, with that good Law on Public Property, which we brought to the National Assembly, but we brought it with great delay, Serbia is going a good way. I think our citizens, this and research show, are satisfied in this sense that this assembly's assembly in the normative part of doing a lot of good, but what they lack is that they feel in their personal and everyday lives a concrete benefit from it. The benefits will be of this law as well. For example, the adoption of this law will create conditions for attracting new investors to create new jobs. Serbia today needs about 2.5 billion euros at the annual level of foreign direct investment in order to develop sustainablely. One way to attract these investors, to open jobs, to improve the standard of citizens, is to adopt this more than significant law, on the position of the SPO. To whom will the concessions of income belong? Depending on who the concessions are concluded with, but will, above all, go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will also organise professional bodies for all necessary jobs. I think that all the good parts of this law can be talked about for a long time, but what we are particularly looking forward to, too, is that, when Serbia gets EU candidate status, it will also run for a number of its projects, national and regional, but since the EU rests on one of the principles – the principle of balanced and even development, it will primarily benefit from these projects, from pre-accession funds, from local communities and regions. For years, the SPO has been in favour of decentralisation of the country, of its even development and of reviving and giving importance to local self-government. With all the good changes to the Foreign Trade Act, which really shortens many unnecessary procedures, which allows for a more normal external trade exchange of Serbia with all countries, regardless of who they belong to, to whom they are more favoured, the SPO and MPs will vote with great satisfaction, in the voting day, for these two very good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62480	I thank the Word has a National MP, Mr. Stevanović Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you are the fourth minister since this morning in this government, I welcome the third, goodbye to Mr Markovic, and perhaps you have an answer since you are fresh from the government. Will you go to this assembly with a report of events at KIM? You are required to comply with the declaration that this congregation has obliged you to do so. Today, even yesterday, we cannot get an answer from you from the government – are you trading in Kosovo or not? Are you really behind the policies that you publicly declare or have you given up from the north and south and the people at barricades, which gives us the right to understand? At least find a way to do it or not. It's against us to ask that question. You should be asked in government by those who operate the congregation. It is their obligation as well as the obligation of the SRS. They should ask you to do that. (President: Mr Stevanovic, it is the government's obligation to submit a report, it is the chairman's obligation to take care of the exposure that needs to be in line with the topic on the agenda. We're still in time, the report will arrive, and then we'll have a session to discuss it with. I agree. That we're going to have that session that no one has confirmed or is hiding when it's meant to be confirmed or denied. I personally think that in this duel of MPs and government representatives you should be on the side of the SRS and our demands. I repeat, they have a duty to you as well. We can discuss concessions, but don't say it doesn't matter and it doesn't matter. I'm going to ask you now, I doubt that a sports lady in this country can tell me, what will be the state's relationship to the facts, and from the aspect of the concession law and the public-private partnership to 70% of the Serb lignite reserves on KIM? If you're hard on the position of your party president and his relationship with KIM, then don't tell me anything, I get it. But if you personally have a different attitude and you really feel what we're saying you're misleading the public and the citizens of KIM, that you're saying it's within the state of Serbia, I'm asking you what kind of state, according to this law, is going to have a relationship to the Serb lignite on KIM? Are you going to apply this law down there, are you going to apply the law on municipal activities, which is related to this law, what you're adopting new, will you apply it to KIM? Imagine the insolence and insolence of the government. In the light of this law, they did not take into account municipal enterprises and companies that are performing municipal activity in KIM, and we have the presidents of municipalities, director of municipal enterprises, if not in the south, in the north of KIM. Yesterday the first president received them across the street. It better not be. They didn't take that into account. Is there really no statistics down there, do they not provide municipal services, do they not have the need to invest private capital in these activities? They do, but the government doesn't care about KIM. The government is a kiM ballast, and according to this they behave when talking to the presidents of municipalities and when it comes to the law on private - public partnership. For you, KIM is the concern you want to solve, but don't let the people get mad at you before the election. Well, it won't work. Your policy of European deception has become a policy of deception. You've reached the corner, you don't know what to do next. Today, when the SRS repeats that our country is burning in KIM territory and that they, your partners, are really questioning the survival of state sovereignty, territorial integrity, we are here pretending to be crazy and talk fairy tales, stories about foreign trade. I ask you, Madam Prime Minister, how will the law apply to KIM from your perspective or from your prism on foreign trade? You accepted their customs stamps. Will you go into foreign trade relations with them? It is a symbol of external relations - trade relations, customs, there is no bigger, there is no more eclectic. We're interrupting what we're asking to talk about Kim. It all makes sense, but when that problem is solved. At least show the will to resolve it together. Do you think the SRS is sitting here, as Predrag Markovic said just before, to support European laws to get a bid as soon as possible? Here are people who are against it, and do not sit people who are for European integration, they are not interested in anything alive. There's a choice in the evening. As you and the government are no longer interested in anything alive, just to take as best as possible positions for the election. You're on your way to the campaign and the stands, you don't care about both KIM and the Serbian lignite on KIM. There is no greater resource and potential for any concession than that. What did you give up, what did you spit on? You have convinced this people – both Europe and Kosovo. What do we have now? Thank God, there will be nothing from Europe, and you will not fight for Kosovo either. Now we're listening to representatives sitting here in government accusing the SRS that our policy has led to this, and they're sitting in government with those who have been cruelly making political decisions about KIM for 10 years. That doesn't bother them, but they're bothered by the SRS. Then they say, "You are the radicals responsible for this. We're not. Listen to what the Minister said here, about the law on public and private partnership, he says – there are many projects in the country, there is no money. You see the manipulation, you've owed the state five billion euros since the beginning of your term of office. That's how much you've grown public debt. Today, in the afternoon debate, you have burdened the state with a billion dollars more because you have forgiven robbery, crime and unconscious business for public enterprises and some institutions, not all. They say there's no money, there's projects. Eight hundred million dollars of Russian credit stands withdrawn, you know why? Because this incompetent government can't write projects. Do you know how to spend money? Projects can't write? They're moaning here -- there's no money, there's projects. Imagine that noise and shame. You are taught lessons about problems in the local self-government of people who have left the chaos behind their management of the city. Remember the city authority of Vuk Draskovic and SPO. Remember that. That's why it needs a law on public and private partnerships, which is why there's no money. Because it was a cold-blooded robbery. This country survives well how much it has been stolen and how much it has been stolen. Today I read in the afternoon debate the findings of the state auditor from a public firm, this is the official document you were supposed to receive in the government. Don't take this personally, I'm talking to you as a representative of the government. Madam Minister, no public procurement has been made in accordance with the law. Drained 50 million dinars on ten public procurements in a public enterprise. They say there's no money. There's money, but where and how are they spent? They rob and steal. Do you really believe this went to public interest? No, it went into party and private registers and private pockets. So now, are we, geniuses, introducing a law on public-private partnership to improve the quality of services, municipal services, public sector, municipal infrastructure, etc. How pathetic is that? How much unreasonable political behavior, irresponsible behavior, the absence of national consciousness, can you politically put yourself in one disgusting position? So you don't choose the means to defend something. Such behavior screws up something that, you might say, makes sense. It's not the SRS against organising a public-private partnership. On the contrary, in 1991, when we founded a party and defined our programming principles, Vojislav Seselj put it in his programming principles. It's not a dispute, but you can't go into a public-private partnership like this until you tell the Assembly clearly, like the Government, and then a public assembly what it is that this country is going to offer to the private sector. You've passed a set of laws that create preconditions for a private partnership. Do any of you in the government know what it can be private in Serbia, what it can't? What can and in what relationship can private capital be offered, what can't? Is it telecommunications, is it railways, is it electricity, are they roads, are they mineral wealth? Have either of you told anyone in Serbia what they can, what they can't? It's the basis for entering the public-private partnership story. It is the foundation of everything, but it is done by national conscious and responsible politicians and people. This is for you who, as far as last year's snow can't, don't throw it away, you spit on both the state and all for European integration. You have nationalally replaced yourself internationally, transnationally, and accordingly, you are ruling. You don't care about both Serbian roads and natural goods. If you can put some money in your pocket anything is possible and you'll put it in norms or norms to forget. That's the only thing you can handle. One of them knows what's general and what's public interest? It says here what's general and what's public interest in DRI's findings. This is how you run the public sector, this is how the public sector is run. Imagine this shame, only this shame. The share capital shown in the accounts – 7,300 billion, and the same capital in the Business Registers Agency – 4,300 billion. How is that possible? That's what your party said, I'm giving you, write down and record tomorrow at party forums, ask how it's possible, three billion of them are gone, from public enterprise to agency, gone. How is that possible? How is it that in a state where there is no money for local projects, 80 million dinars from a public enterprise go on loan without foundation? And no one's asking to come back. Here, Mr. Chikiriz, you're talking about a public and private partnership, this public enterprise since its founding, has neither kept a record nor recorded a single...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62482	Please, without addressing the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62483	One single change on your property. It's about property. Perhaps you'll decide with the government's decision to get this into a public-private partnership. Do you know what you're going in for? Does a privateer who will enter these relationships know what the other side has? Is this how you protect public interest? Bruca and shame. Now, this is your relationship with both Kosovo and Metohija. Now, we can't take it. There's money in Serbia, there's not enough and the SRS knows it. But what he's got, I know it's funny, but what he's got is how it's spent? Come to my community, and see how the money is spent. So the city center is paved and the most modern urban mobilist is placed, the management locally says, as in Barcelona. Ask your colleague Stajkovic if something is wrong, and from there all the city sewers flow into the river, all the city sewers go into the waterway past the water treatment plant. It's in the subject, we're talking about municipal services and public and private partnerships. Is that what it takes? Not for that, but for those who are irresponsible and incompetent, and for those who make disgustingly wrong political decisions, to spend money on projects through which money is laundered, not in projects that are sustainable. If these ten years had taken less care of party and personal interests, believe me, Mr. Poturak, there would have been much more money and much more water would have been purified and many more villages and cities and municipalities would have arranged water supply and water treatment. How many sanitary, regional dumps have you made since you entered power in 2000? Five of you have put everything into operation, you will lead us into the EU. People won't, and thank God we won't, happiness. I said it once, it's lucky you're leading us. It's a good thing you're leading us, and never, thank God we won't be there. They talk here, we talk when we get our hands on the funds. You can't go to the funds? You know why? Because you haven't established a DIS? You know what DIS is, Mrs. Kolundjia, since you're throwing it at me? You know what DIS is. Here, you're taking us to the EU and you don't know what it is. Without it, you cannot join the EU. It's a decentralised fund management system, they're asking to see how you spend their money. Here, the DRI says you're wasting it. Robbery, naked robbery, this is a naked robbery. That's not what we said radicals, we confirm the DRI's findings. Now, that's you Europeans, that's you, selling the fog here about the need for a public-private partnership. That, under what conditions, in which relationship, in which sectors of municipal or public action, what we want to give to the private sector. We'll talk, you've written, in the Community Labour Act, the welfare of the feces. So how come you're not ashamed? You take care of the feces. You want someone to take you seriously? You're serious about something? Well, that's ironic. Here's your second law on foreign trade. Mrs. Markovic, perhaps you are competent for this law as a sports minister, tell me, please, what does this mean – the balance of payments measures cannot be introduced to protect domestic producers? Whose producers do you have to protect? He said Buha just before the VAT ratio from imports and exports. This little bit you're exporting, let's destroy it. None of the measures provided for in neither the old nor this Act on the Protection of the Domestic Real Sector have you ever applied, but it is a fundamental problem for the SAA, which European countries have higher average customs rates than you do. You're ultra fanatics for Europe. Europe needs to learn from you. Hundreds of millions of losses per year due to your sick economic policy. That's not how you go into the EU, that's how the state disappears. That is why we are against you politically and that is why we are against the EU because we have no economic interest. What is required by this law? Foreign legal persons are required to have the same status as our domestics. Why? Because they want to export to Russia, first of all, because they have no favourable conditions from their countries like we do, but only the Serbian government sees no interest in the foreign trade relationship with Russia, the most privileged nations in the world, so 6% of exports go to Russia and 50% go to the EU. You are the frames to export to the EU with an average age of 35 years. The geniuses figured out what to do – we'll sell them corn and wheat, we'll change balances and we'll pretend to be big and responsible, and we'll import everything else, so in the middle of Serbia on the highway, I repeat the 100th time, you're eating Croatian ajvar and Macedonian ham, and the level of the Serbian livestock industry from 1910. It's you, it's the results of your ten-year government and administration. Now you're going to offer us a good law on private and public partnership. I'm asking you, how could it have been possible to get into that kind of relationship so far when it wasn't this law? For Pop Webber, Webber, you've all heard. How could the utility companies import arrangements without this law? You know what your ministers said - there is no basis, but congratulations on the courage and the step of these local self-government. Do you think he's protected by public interest? Wherever you go, they complain about them because the institutions don't work and they don't commit anything, and they don't care what they contracted to the state, the municipality, the province or anyone else, they know that institutions don't work, and even where they work they end up with money, they buy who they need and act as they will and whenever they want. What concerns the government, it's not their private business and their private problem, it's the problem of the state. That's not their problem, and that's why you have situations both in municipalities and in cities and in the Republic that you have. We will not support this because we think that the concept of public and private partnership in its essence is bad, it is good and it is a good mechanism in your hands which will become a sick and dangerous weapon and will be the subject of abuse, such as privatisation, everything else and ultimately your very bad political relationship with KIM, which you will not talk about for several days, which the SRS has insisted in these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62484	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is an opportunity to remind you that I am not only a sports minister but also a youth. I would especially like to point out because the youth in Serbia only makes 20% of the population, and I would like them to be mentioned in this House in every context and to be cared for in this way by being in an adequate dictionary and MPs and this respected home. I've just come from a session of the Youth Gifts Fund that has awarded 6,000 scholarships since it was founded, so I can't be sure to tell you exactly what happened in the meantime while I chaired the Fund was going on in the government. What I can tell you with pleasure is that this law, although you dispute competence for this subject, the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, can make significant progress in sport in particular. You can do that on a local level. I'm going to give you an example of a sport that's not traditional with us and is being financed less from budgets. It's about golf. I'm not sure that we should set aside budget resources for golf infrastructure, but if it can be a help to a local self-government, such as the Frog, for example, golf can be a significant tourist development project and I think this law can help local self-government and people who want to invest in golf, just to help in the sense that they have a reference framework, how, how to invest, what is the task and priority, and golf is just one example. I think the sports infrastructure that needs new investments, although the ministry is investing a lot, I can once again report to you, we've made 96 halls, 207 terrains, and some new swimming pools are being done, etc. I think both public and private partnerships in the context of sport infrastructure would really contribute significantly to the development of sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62486	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is Mr. Chiquiriz Mirko, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62487	Of course, I was only talking about the law and I always stick to the agenda theme, I'm not trying to get through and one law to get through everything that's been the topic of the current policy, everything that's been going on on the Serbian political scene for the next 20 years, but it definitely caused my report for the replica. I will say that there is not enough money not only in Serbia today, but there is no money in Switzerland, Norway or Sweden or in the United States, and they have all passed similar laws and all these laws have produced extraordinary results and today, according to EIB surveys, about 15 billion euros on an annual basis, a private partnership with public partnerships worldwide. The money wasn't here in 2000. They were empty pension funds, they were empty health funds. There was a much bigger ride in public enterprises. I never once said that I support crime in public enterprises. On the contrary, we kept saying that we're all over Kolubara, that we need to break up with crime. I mentioned that a strategy should be adopted to privatise public utility companies, which has again yielded extraordinary results in all the countries that have done so. What is the task of all politicians is to create some environment. I think this government has made a good environment for the normative. Of course it's not the conditions of the global economic crisis and it's not the enormous heritage it burdens sure that the results would be much better, but we're just because a lot of laws have been passed regarding both the lives of citizens and the local self-government we've heard about have money, we don't think there is, but that through this legal project...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62488	Time. Thank you. (Dragan Stevanović, from the place: Replica. There is no reason for replication. The minister came forward and gave one example of how this law would apply. (Dragan Stevanovic, from the site: Can I use within two minutes.) ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. You still have 12 minutes per hour, and 19.5 minutes per group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62489	I didn't understand this for an hour and a half. (President: Time is up to 1800 hours. ) Just to clarify some things, so there's no confusion. I can see from kim's point of view, you're creeping yourself out. I'd like you to take a look at article 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Transport, so that you can look at Article 16. I can also order you a few more of these members, where in a very direct way you're talking about kim. Let's get in line. Article 8. - transit of goods is the passage of goods through the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the customs regulations of the Republic of Serbia. What is the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia? We haven't received an answer from a government official yet. Of course, I'm not personally calling anyone here, but let's get an answer. What do we need to get an answer for? Well, here's the transit area of the Republic of Serbia, some goods truck is entering there at Sudotica, it's supposed to go to Tirana, and it needs to go through the Republic of Serbia. He's going through Merdare. Where's he going to go? Maybe he doesn't go anywhere, maybe he just washes the paperwork and the goods go back to the Republic of Serbia without taxes, without customs, and how do we compete with our manufacturer for the same classical case of economic crime? You don't have an answer. Over the past few months, you've been attacking people on KIM stories of one-off goods traffic towards KIM. You know for a fact that probably 70% of what you've shown is just washed documentation. Today, in Serbia, the illegal market is being harassed. We all know that, it's like this, now someone doesn't want to, bending their heads because the EU doesn't have an alternative. Let's move on. What did you write? Article 10. Proposal for a law - quota allocation - Ministry, or other competent authority. What is this other authority, the Chamber of Commerce, Bulgaria? What are you talking about? Who can propose to the government some measure concerning the quantitative restriction. Give me another organ. Who's hiding behind that organ? We don't know. Quotas are distributed, so under two, write-offs by, that's now a methodology, one is a permit, the other is to determine a certain amount, so who spends that amount until the quantity is exhausted when that quota is valid. But we're back to the issue of stamps, customs declarations. We're going back to those questions. And to skip that law now, seeing as it's very painful for KIM to move on to this one about public-private partnership relations and concessions. Do these in the government know that there is still a law in Serbia on public enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest? Do they know that there are provisions there that allow private capital to be included in what is called infrastructure, both at the republican and local level? Now you're introducing apparently something new, and that's what we had. Just to remind you, in Article 4 of this bill you have given definitions and now you're back in the public property debate, it's public, there's nothing public that isn't state. You did this at the Public Property Act, and here you wrote well – state capital. Let me remind you of one example. The government changed, the Kovačica municipality. They said the garbage business would be entrusted to the Austrian firm. The first thing that happened, seven times more expensive is taking out the trash. The courts are buried, because the stranger is charging for it. If your concept comes to life here, public-private, we will, in all the communal activities and actions reserved for the state, for public enterprises, have private capital interference, regardless of whether the contractual or institutional form of interference is imminent and there will inevitably be money laundering and the purchase of all services for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is infallible. Is today Fiat an example of a public-private partnership? Yes, it is. Serbia from the budget, Serbia is in debt and is paying funds and there we have a Fiat private company in the second part. What are the effects? You'd better build a golf course, Mrs. Markovic. It'd be cheaper for the state. Now, let me remind you of another example. We had Mobtel, a kind of mix of state and private capital, so you started the process also because of money laundering, booking, etc. Now you're bringing it back again. It wasn't good when Karic was working, but he'll be fine now that Orion's working or someone else's. What are these criteria? These are DS criteria. Anything the DS says, it's democratic, so it can be from Bodrum, but if someone else says it's primitiveism, it's prosaclysm, because it's just what the DS says pro-European and this pro-European suffering is like that for us. Let's move on. Someone just said - Norway and Switzerland don't have any money. For God's sake, he said man, and he was alive. Two of the richest economies per capita, according to the potential, Norway and Switzerland. They say – thank God, we are not EU members. They exploit natural resources, invest around the world, because they know that the oil they have is limited capacity. They move to new technologies and move capital everywhere to ensure their social justice. And someone says, Norway doesn't have money. How? Or the one for Varazdin, as he said, and now the mayor of the Parliament is being checked for this public-private partnership relationship. Where did you find it to say Switzerland doesn't have any money? They won't give their francs. Why would they give up their franc? You see, the ones you've convinced to move on to Frank, they can't get out of these lising problems and these things right now. We have amazing things going on here. Furthermore, this will allow free private capital funds to be employed for some public matters – municipal services in local self-government. You denied 57 billion local self-government in two-two-and-a-half financial years. Now you've changed the Law on the financing of local self-government, given some eight billion on the basis of salary tax, and the presidents of the municipality are screaming, because people are losing their jobs and shrinking, they're actually income-based by salary tax. Or to reset. Can you imagine what would happen if the pipeline, the sewerage, and you have city traffic, there is private capital long ago present, what would happen in some local self-government, if the pro-European mayor said – the Republic is looking at us as an orphan, not giving us money. All local self-governments are in charge for the next four to five years. Everything they have in their budgets is not enough to pay off the existing duties of local self-government. In the inevitable security and functioning of certain businesses and the lack of funds, the solution is to invest Miskovic in the heat, to invest Miskovic in water and sewers. How'd the people with the gas go? Who can pay for gas today? And everything was within reach - nice, pro-European, cuddly, dressed, everything, everything, everything taken care of. What are we talking about? In these conditions, you have the courage to suggest something like this. We are neither Switzerland nor Norway. Ms. Markovic, since she has some contacts with Norway, when could government funds happen in Norway, the resources of taxpayers in such a rude way spill into the private pockets of their private tycoons? It's impossible. It's immoral and illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-25-0.u62490	Mr. Krassic, I apologize. Bring the thought to the end, and we'll finish our hours. You'll get your seven minutes tomorrow. We can keep going, if you want? (Zoran Krasic: We will leave those seven minutes for tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. This concludes today's session. Tomorrow, October 26th, Wednesday, we start at 10.00pm. It is my special honor to announce that Mr Krasic will be the first speaker to open the session immediately, for seven minutes. Thank you.
