ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57929	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I find that, by applying the electronic system, I find that the session attends 93, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the electronic voting system, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that there are 86 MPs in the electronic voting system and that there are a number of MPs present in the hall, which are not recorded in the electronic voting system. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: National MP Milica Radovic, MP Momo Colaković and MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for meetings, on the joint single search of the proposals of the action on the 9th and 10th agenda, today's session, to be attended also by Zoran Markovic, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mr Zoran Stoiljković, Mr Radosav Sretenović, President of DRI, Ljubica Nedeljkovic, Vice-President of the State Auditing Institution, Zoran Tamas, member of the State Auditing Institution's Council, Life Antic, the Supreme State Auditor and Mirjana Markovic, the Secretary of the State Auditory Institution. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint single search on the 2010 Annual report on the work of the DRI with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Finance and an annual report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2010 with a proposal for conclusions of the Committee on Justice and Management. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on points 9 and 10 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I would like to remind you that, under Rule 93 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group and that: The MP group, For a European group, belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak each and every five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, so that a list of speakers interested in using the right to speak during a single search of the 9th and 10th points of the agenda could be drawn up. I would also like to inform you that the MP groups will be MPs: MP Djuro Peric, PUPS MP, MP Zoran Kasalovic, SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Milan Lapcevic, DSS parliamentary group. I also ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups, if they decide to be an authorised representative, to provide information on the name of the MPs so that we can inform the National Assembly who will use the right to speak, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the annual report on the work of the DRI for 2010, following a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee and an annual report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2010, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Administration. (10.15 hours) ) Also, I would like to inform you that he is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic. Do the representatives, reporters want a word? The word is Mr. Sretenovic, and then Mrs. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57930	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, I have the honour and pleasure to present a report on the work of the DRI for 2010 in the Assembly of Republika Srpska for the first time today. As is known, the DRI Law has regulated the question that DRI submits a report to the National Assembly on its work. So far, we have done so in accordance with the law and within proper deadlines, and this is the first time we have talked today about our report in front of the MPs. The report on the work of the DRI covers, above all, the issue of the implementation of the audit programme, part of the report on the security and spent resources of the DRI in line with the financial plan, also includes part relating to co-operation with international professional organisations, or international organisations dealing with the audit. In addition, the selection of consultants, the implementation and the certification programme, i.e. the licensing of state auditors, as well as other issues related to the competence of the DRI. I must remind the MPs and the public that the DRI has submitted reports to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the law on audit. I think we'll have a chance to discuss these reports especially at one of those sessions of the assembly and talk, and today it's our work report. I think I would particularly point out that during this co-operation, the reports and the overall work during 2010 and earlier years, we had an exceptional and constructive co-operation with the Serbian Finance Committee. We have proposed to the Committee certain recommendations that he has made in the proposal for the Assembly. We stand before you and we can answer all your questions regarding the specific report on the work of the DRI and other issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57931	The word is from the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency Zoran Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57932	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, honourable Members, it is my pleasure to present on behalf of the Anti-Corruption Agency the first report on the work of the youngest or one of the youngest state independent regulatory institutions in Serbia and the report before you is the result of our one-year work and first work. The debate that will take you along with us at this time, the questions that you are going to ask us, are extremely important to us because it will represent, not only support in further work, but also the orientation and direction that we should all go together, because I do not need to repeat that the importance of the work that the Agency is doing is, the preventive mechanisms that we all need to create together, to prevent corruption, one of the most important and priority issues for our country. The report we've given has been made in truly exceptional circumstances which I hope will not be repeated this year. So it's about an institution that's established and that started its work with 13 employees and ended with 49. Therefore, in the conditions of permanent and constant employment, extremely small and insufficient capacity and in this insufficiently motivated, or extremely poorly-positioned employees, given the provisions of the Law on civil servants, which have rather limited us to the possibility of hiring professional staff. However, we have managed to achieve envious results in all the fields that have been put into our jurisdiction by law. I will remind you that in January 2010, we received more than 16,000 property reports from officials in Serbia within 30 days. There are 18,000 of these reports today and they are placed on the site in the vast majority, and they are all properly seduced, provided and data on them very securely. We established a register, which was the most demanding task put before the Agency in conditions of insufficient, not only human resources, but especially technical capacity, which is necessary for one such serious job of the register, as is the register of officials, which means a list of all officials in Serbia by institutions, from the highest level of government to local authorities. We had an amendment to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act after six months, so somewhere this time last year. Amendments and additions to the Law have been adopted, one of which prompted the most controversy between Parliament and the Agency. It led to the Agency's submission to the Constitutional Court in September an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the disputed provision of the law and at yesterday's session of the Constitutional Court, our initiative was confirmed. Therefore, the contested provision of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency was declared unconstitutional. So we've had quite a challenging year with regard to legal issues about resolving conflicts of interest. The agency also participated very actively and made a significant contribution to the adoption of a new law on the financing of political activities, which I hope we have created a much better basis for regulating an important issue of political party functioning, as you know, because this is a significant activity that the state recognises as an important activity and for which it separates extremely large funds in the budget. The report contains several parts. He's modular. Each individual part can be read or read together. The mandatory part, prescribed by the Agency's Law, is a report on the implementation of a national strategy to combat corruption and action plan. Also, two documents that are causing a lot of public attention and controversy at the moment, because it is documents that have long not been known who is conducting them, who is watching them and how much they are being treated. So somewhere we revived these documents, activated reporting activities, and made a report that led to 20 recommendations contained in this report, which are extremely important. What is good, or what may have been co-cidating, and perhaps someone really did read it right after we submitted the report to the Assembly in March, is that our first recommendation is to revise the existing strategy and absolutely update the existing action plan, because the documents that are largely exceeded or certainly do not correspond to this economic and political moment in which Serbia is accepted by the Serbian government and a working group has been formed to produce and revise existing strategic anti-corruption documents. So, this report is very indicative, very good in terms of showing where the weaknesses of these documents are, and what I would like to point out here, and what I would like the Assembly to draw a special conclusion on, is that without a precise methodology for monitoring the implementation of such documents, without clearly defined powers whose responsibility it is and whose responsibility it is, we cannot be satisfied with strategic documents, they will always remain just a dead letter on paper. So one of the things that we are going to insist on in the working group right now is that these strategic documents include responsibility obligations and a clear methodology for their implementation. The conclusions adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Justice are something the Agency fully agrees with. It is my pleasure that the conclusions paint the support the Agency receives in its work and have been given since the first day of parliament. But on behalf of the Agency, I want to point out that we would be more pleased if these conclusions were a little more concrete, if, as we say, we were tossing out the topics and problems observed in the report of our first year of work. In this regard, we have suggested some five recommendations that we have sublimed from a total of 30, so,10 recommendations contain our annual report and 20 recommendations contain an annual report on implementation of the strategy. Five of the most important recommendations we have proposed that parliament be included in the conclusions and recommendations that will be imposed by the executive authorities, because together with us it would be a much more effective and effective control of the executive authority. I will only point out that one of these five recommendations is the fact that, without delay, criteria for the allocation of funds by local self-government to NGOs are established. This also coincided with problems recently raised in public over who is funding from the budget, which are civil society organisations and who are giving them money. Therefore, without clearly established criteria and transparent and stand-alone allocations from very limited budgets of local self-government to the NGO sector. It remains a highly suspected area of corruption. That's one of our five recommendations. One of the recommendations also refers to the requirement for the Anti-Corruption Agency to be exempt from the application of the provisions of the Civil Service Act in the employment of its staff, as the Agency is not a body of state administration, but is an independent regulatory body and is the only one of the independent regulatory bodies that has the regime of the Law on State Servants and is thus brought into an unequal position. So I singled out two out of five. I certainly think that in today's debate we can come to a more competitive conclusion that will simply determine our further steps in the upcoming period or at least next year's report to the Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57933	Before I ask whether the People's MP Branko Ljiljak, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, and that after the debate on the common and uniform review of the agenda, which is just open and on which the debate is being held, we will also move on to the next, and the last joint single search on the set agenda, which has been established by 122 MPs for this sixth extraordinary session. Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57934	For the first time in the recent history of public finances, the Republic of Serbia has received a report on the financial audit of the 2008 final budget account and since 2009. In that context, I think this debate on the proposed annual report should begin with a brief chronology of events that have led to this result. It is known that no audit has been carried out since 2002, nor has there been a report on the revision of the financial reports, that the DRI Act was adopted in 2005 and that an attempt to implement, i.e. a continuation of the implementation of the DRI was initiated at the end of September 2007, when the DRI Council was elected, so that the DRI would also receive its consent to the DRI Rules of Procedure, without which it could not carry out its audit. I think this chronology is a clear indicator of a good and well-designed work by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the state audit institution, and in this regard, I think that, with some facts, we can say that the public finance environment in the Republic of Serbia is a major change, above all, in the beginning of work, in the serious and elaborate work of the State Auditing Institution. After that, here is the first year of the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which aims to prevent corruption sources. I would also like to point out that we have established fiscal rules by amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, which is nothing new in public finances, but it is therefore talking about the movement of our budget deficit, public debt, public spending, and they guarantee one long-term Marko-economic stability of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, significant activities by the MUP to combat organised crime, equalising everyone before the law are also a significant contribution to making the public financing environment in the Republic of Serbia significantly different, significantly better in this period. All the above is indeed one unquestionable evidence and the fact is that this Government of the Republic of Serbia, our Government, has seriously worked and wants transparency and control of the spending of every dinar of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I truly appreciate that such an approach of work deserves the support of all MPs, and we have heard that the Finance Committee has given significant support to the work of the State Auditing Institution through material support, by proposing certain amendments to the Law on the State Auditing Institution, when it comes to the status of employees in the State Auditing Institution, the necessary consent, all that is necessary for the State Auditing Institution to function. That is why I would like to appeal to all of us to make an effort to preserve both the independence and independence of the State Auditing Institution, which in this way is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, in this way, we are aware of the annual report. It is important to say that this is how the process is opened, that regularity and certainness of control are established and that, in the future, the observed irregularities should be removed, efforts not to repeat them, of course, and responsibility. The annual report, which we have the opportunity to meet today and discuss it, says that DRI had a strengthening in 2010 because in June 2010, we adopted the necessary amendments and additions to the DRI Act, which significantly improved the material position of employees, which conditioned a certain motivation in the current staff, but also in the reception of enough professional and competent workers in the DRI. I appreciate that all of this has led to a 2009 report, which voiced its opinion on public finances, i.e. the Republic of Serbia's budget, with certain reserves. This is certainly progress in relation to the first report, which, with all the other problems the DRI had at the time, led to a lack of opinion on public finances, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, when it comes to coverage, this time the 2009 final budget account has been checked the amount of expenditure and expenditure which, in the total amount of those covered by the audit, accounts for around 70%, which is, compared to that first report, when it was at some 27%, a really very significant difference and contributes to a clearer view of the DRI, namely the state of public finances. Also, the revision includes NBS, three public enterprises, JP "Storages", "Electro Network of Serbia", "Transnafta" Pancevo. I remind you once again, for 2008, we only had a report on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. During 2010, the sector for the budget audit of local authorities was formed and I will say something about it later. What we have been insisting from the very beginning, SPS-JS MPs, is also to extend the scope of those who are legally required to be covered by the revision. This time it looks like it. The 2011 programme, apart from the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, will cover the 2010 financial report, the regularity of the business of the NBS, the financial report for 2010 of 16 entities, public enterprises and companies. The plan is to include 14 local authorities, as well as a final account for 2010 of a mandatory insurance organisation. This information speaks of the significant progress and effect achieved by the DRI in the context of the revision. In this way, we are gradually getting a more complete insight into the public finances of the Republic of Serbia, which not only makes up the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also the finances of all the mentioned entities. What would be some future tasks in the DRI, which we can see from this report? It's one tendency, which we also talked about, that there is a development and revision of purpose. This is a subject which does not only talk about the dedicated spending of funds that can be intended, but also needs to be determined by purpose, or what has been obtained and what has been achieved by the spending means in this way and the DRI has an obligation and advisory roles in that direction. We expect certain results to be achieved in the next period. We have also consistently insisted that an institution such as the DRI must show the initiative when it comes to the introduction and organisation of internal control and internal audit in all entities where it is provided for by law, because we believe that this will prevent all possible irregularities, primarily by setting up internal control where certain procedures are established, the way finance is managed in that entity, will certainly narrow down the framework to make certain mistakes and internal audits, therefore, post-festum control will determine whether this internal control is well set up, or whether the funds are spent in accordance with the plan. It should continue to improve the training of state auditors. Co-operation with the international institutions you spoke of will certainly contribute to that. The permanent task of the DRI is co-operation in the field of fighting corruption. In your report, you stated that, among the other, you are working well with an institution like the Anti-Corruption Agency. We can conclude that, in some sense, these two institutions, whose 2010 reports are on the agenda today, should and must co-operate closely. Therefore, after this discussion on the work of the DRI, I would briefly refer to the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. As we have heard, it is a single independent and independent body that aims to prevent the effects of corruption sources. We are in the first year of work of this institution. Certainly, the maximum expectations of citizens in this area are justified, because it is indeed a major problem for society and, in our opinion, it certainly requires one responsible and maximum engagement of all state authorities. I think and I appreciate that the Agency has worked on it, but that it needs to work even more in the direction of changing habits, some procedures, and above all, developing consciousness with us in society that no one can be above the law and that's some kind of preventive action in our society. They are evident, the annual report shows all the diversity of the initial problems in the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. They were also organizational, material. You said it in your opening statement, spatial. We also heard personnel, although this number of employees from 13 came to 49. We believe that at the very beginning of the Agency it is early to expect some spectacular results and to make definitive assessments of the work, but we do not want to agree with some suggestive and early estimates that the establishment of the Agency has made yet another attempt to create a "provision" or illusion to fight corruption. On the contrary, certain results and recommendations that have been made in the work of the Agency so far are clearly being denied. I think these results from the Agency's work domain, which you mentioned here, were solved by 92.4% of cases in the area of conflict of interest, that of the 300 reports submitted by state officials in 192, which is about 65%. When a parallel is made, for example, for tax returns of citizens in developed countries, they are examined between 10% and 15% and are based on certain conclusions, i.e. measures. I appreciate that this percentage of processed reports is very high in the first year of the Agency's work. Co-operation with most state institutions has been opened. That's what you were talking about. The only thing is not quite clear here, it is said that one of the results is that the personnel, material-financial and technical conditions for the funkconization of the Agency, and in the part where the recommendations, i.e. the challenges, are still being said and you said that it was still necessary to work on it and provide an adequate business space, I realized that at this point with what you have achieved in that domain you are satisfied, but that this is not enough for future work of the Agency. The SPS-JS MPs consider it necessary to act actively and concretely in the fight against corruption. We appreciate, above all, that the work of our ministers, and especially of the Ministry of Interior, whose head is Ivica Dacic, is best expressed our position on this great problem of our society, primarily through the work and results of work in the fight against corruption and organised crime, because many elements of corruption, many clans, have been processed. Finally, I want to say that it is clear and visible, this report can conclude that the problem of corruption is not a bit simple and that one thought-out and organized struggle will be difficult and long-term, but that these initial reports show some results. Therefore, the SPS-JS parliamentary club expresses support for both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency and the proposed annual reports for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57935	It was used 15 minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57936	Mrs. Comic, I don't think it's a problem to split these 20 minutes into two, now ten, then ten. For starters, let's get rid of some dilemmas. Unfortunately, the formation of new organs, organisations, independent, addictive etc., in Serbia is a relatively permanent patient state. The law is passed, it's spectacularly announced, and you're counting the palm of your hand, and it's going to start in five, six months to work. But with us, it has to wait really well. An example of that is a DRI, and there's no room, and there's no this, that. How can they secure the frame when it doesn't exist in the state? How do they get to go to school? How do they write down standards, get organized? This is in those reports, which will be on the agenda when the proposals for a final bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 and 2009 budget are also under consideration. Finally, that DRI was starting to work. However, we immediately came into conflict with a system of large numbers, which directly, which indirect users, I think you have 9,000 and something that falls under the provisions of this law, where you would have to engage. That service, and if there were 200 staff auditors, couldn't control all that. It is a similar situation with regard to the permanent patient situation in the case of the Anti-Corruption Agency, although it is the successor of that committee to prevent conflicts of interest, but only in one part. And with the Agency, we have an estimate of about 16,000 public officials who, if anything, just have to report the property with that report. You read all that stuff so you can see what's what. The central question is asked – why do we need these organs? Turns out they're needed. From that cumulative time of socially beneficial malversions, political similarities, etc., we have grown into a harsh market system of supply and demand. See for yourself, it's all on the market. On the market is both power and function and position etc. Practically, just because someone stepped on you from Brussels, had some corruption issues, had those 10 companies, this went into the agenda. If it wasn't for that and that signature you're expecting, that paraphras, come on, I'll paraphrase you, there's no problem, this wouldn't have been on the agenda, because this should be crown proof that Serbia has fulfilled a great other condition towards this suicide path to the EU. That's the whole story. The big book of the Anti-Corruption Agency, but there are more details from the Action Plan, the strategy, how to organize ourselves, how to take up starting positions, than something much more tangible. To move on to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The very idea that 16,000 public officials should only report property is an awful large number for such a small country. Look at how much that is, the local level, the country level, the republican, the city level. We've been so distracted by this political system, we've developed this democracy so capitally, that democracy can't control itself now. Expensive control of democracy. Something with the quality of material in democracy happened in the meantime, probably because of these market principles. We have entire areas that no one lives, you can when you want to pass the law, but we can't control it. How are we going to do the most important corruption? Miskovic employed his workers in half of the state's authorities or in some way related to him. It's not in the Anti-Corruption Act. Why is this agency important? It's not her job just some preventive work, but she can also amnesty and prevent repressive work, because someone can say – I'm sorry, I have the Agency's opinion, etc. It's a very dangerous situation. Here's an example, in 2008, this assembly was made, I filed a constitutional appeal because two MPs were also mayors. Bossa threw it away, didn't want to consider it. It's something like this now, but through the assessment of the constitutionality of a provision of law and what I wrote in the constitutional appeal was confirmed, but it couldn't go through in 2008, it passed in 2011. Or, the Agency has announced its position regarding the province's MPs and the cumulation of functions and what the government says – we are not interested in it. Here we change the law, so Batic submits an amendment, the entire government votes for the amendment. Well, who's tearing down these institutions? The one who made them. Why is he tearing them down? What doesn't match in the work of these organs, and everything is your will? Here, even signator Cedomir Cuplic, a failed candidate for an MP in 2003 in front of the Resistance. Montgomery went off the rails for it, and he misjudged the Resistance's power, but the Resistance took over the DS. If it isn't for the EU to say, if you want that signature you have to give some concrete evidence to fight corruption, here's a list of 10 companies. Now Gilas is having fun with Luka media, as if they were naive people in Serbia and they don't know what it is. We're talking about this report, we're talking about some recommendations, etc? Look at the paradoxal situation, most will vote this work report, and every citizen of this Serbia has to tell you -- corruption is booming in Serbia. You see how parallel life is led. You can't point your finger at them, because what it's going to do with 16,000, those 50,000 people, where it can be controlled, that's impossible. The report is fine, street survey - corruption. That corruption you're talking about on the street is unresponsible with this corruption that's the subject of this processing, because there's a gynecologist there, go to the People's Front, and see every birth. If the doctor who led the pregnant woman is not on duty when she is giving birth, 40,000 must be paid to be present at birth. It's not corruption, it's according to medical regulations. Same job at some next foster home, two miles from here, no 40,000. It's not even a matter of interest. When we surveyed on the street, corruption was in the judiciary, policies, health care, education and that I do not order further, and here we deal with conflict of interest, property map of public officials, cumulation of public functions, conflict of public functions and some private interest directly through the spouse, etc. It's practically where it all ends. So, the formal aspect, someone came up with a strategy and said -- that's what the agency is going to do. We also have a Anti-Corruption Council that fights with some other kind of corruption in a completely different way. We have an organized crime prosecutor's office who can't handle these things. If it were really about corruption and crime, these 25 richest people in Serbia who boast, they could get arrested right now and start a trial in ten years, and nothing from the perspective of the law could happen badly. How can the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime quietly monitor that these tycoons don't pay taxes, don't pay contributions, are in charge etc? They're quiet. How is it possible in our country that the one who owes the most for taxes and contributions is advertised on television, in the first row, by officials of major state events, with the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the mayor? What kind of message is that? I'll leave some time for later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57937	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57938	On behalf of the ZES parliamentary group, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the reports of the parent committees and the proposal for the measures they have proposed. What is the subject of today's debate for us is, in fact, whether the measures we have proposed from the point of view of the report that we have received from independent bodies, the best measures that can improve the work of these bodies, on the one hand, and whether these are the measures that can remove difficulties in the work of these independent bodies. I want to say that we will support not only the report and the conclusions, but in every sense we will give support to the work of these independent bodies, and I am proud to say that I belong to that parliamentary group that has so far shown full readiness to create and support these independent bodies, create conditions for Serbia to build democratic institutions and defend itself against those negative phenomena that exist everywhere in the world, but countries with longer democratic experience have strengthened their democratic institutions and are fighting against these diseases more successfully, but Serbia today. There is another question to ask, and it may partially answer whether Serbia is more corrupt today or not, or today about corruption is spoken publicly, marked as a negative social phenomenon, the perpetrators are not only being prosecuted publicly, but also falling under a law that defines this as a criminal act. I think it's hard to give the right answer to that question, but in order for that answer to be given one day, corruption to be talked about, but there is much less, and it is to the extent that it is acceptable for every society, we have to build institutions for which some are and when we have formed them and today they express their suspicions and think they are superfluous and unnecessary, that they do not have their part in society and that they cannot meet the challenges of what you are the subject of their work. I will say very briefly that for the DS these two institutions are closely linked because one deals with the control of the work of public finances, and another with the fight against corruption is, in fact, the same part of the same system that prevents the abuse of society and the acquisition of wealth based on someone's position or any other privileged position. That is why we felt that it was good to bring these two reports together and that, by bringing together these two reports and proposing measures, we see in what way together these institutions, by strengthening their capacities, can respond to what challenges they face, by deeply believing that the fight against corruption is a crucial struggle to build a democratic society, that corruption and abuse of public finances is not only an economic issue, because it destroys the economic system, that it is not only a social issue because it brings to an unequal social position different categories of citizens, that, above all, it is a democratic issue, because it destroys the very democratic institutions and the democratic society itself, and that it is primarily a question of human rights, because as long as there is a corruption of citizens in society, it is unfair. That is why for us, this issue is part of a broader effort to build a democratic society and a fundamental reform of society in which we will allow, above all, all citizens to be equal, that the economy knows only the laws of the market, not the laws of political power and political forces. As for the DS, these two institutions have full support that they are doing their job politically impartially and, no matter who will ever manage this country and be in power, these two institutions will enjoy the full support of these political structures and, in that sense, will be equally resistant today to the holders of political power, as they will be resilient tomorrow to some other political power bearers. What we want to do today is, by giving our votes for the reports and for the measures proposed, really being a partner to these institutions, in terms of supporting them to develop. We have no illusion that strong democratic institutions can develop in a year, two, three, four, five years. We believe that if every year we take the greatest step that we can take as a society, that we will strengthen them to a sufficient extent that they, perhaps faster than in other countries where they have been developing for decades, become strong enough to protect society from those negative phenomena that have caused them to be formed to prevent the spread of such negative phenomena. Of course, when we talk about these reports, I can only say that the reports are objective, because they depict the real state of the institution and those without any cover-ups and attempts to minimize the shortcomings, they talk about what the problems are in their work. So I think the fact that we're discussing this and we're going to adopt the parent committee recommendations is something that shows that this is the only way we're going to keep supporting additional impulses, that these institutions become who they are. There is only a big question – did these conclusions, since the Director of the Agency, say that perhaps the conclusions should be more concrete, and that they contain some elements which they do not now contain? The assembly has very strict procedures. Now we need to see from the point of view of our procedures whether at this stage it is possible to change these motions. Of course, if possible, together with professional services, we will look at and see if at this stage, until the moment of decision, we can change those decisions. Maybe there's a way, in some next step, for not so long, to put it on the agenda again and again, to say, we're discussing the measures to be taken, to strengthen the institutions and to give it the capacity at which it can accomplish its tasks at this stage. Once again, to all those who claim that corruption has never been again, I believe that this is now a society where corruption is marked as evil and this evil is manifested publicly, so it looks like it's more. In another time, it was not talked about, corruption was understood, and it was an integral part of the system. She was never marked as a public evil. Marking corruption and misuse of public funds as an evil that the entire society should fight, I think we create serious conditions to fight with this evil more successfully. To what extent we're going to fight, that's a really big question for much more developed countries. In this sense, I think there is much less corruption in this country, that this is a country with less corruption, but with more votes fighting these phenomena. That's why we as DS and as the ZES Parliament Club, with great pleasure we will vote for the proposals of the measures we trust, create conditions for these institutions to work better, in the interest of which our interest is. I call on the representatives of these institutions to work together, in future reports and measures. Because only the institution sees more what's her problem, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, than who, by analysing the reports, we can assess what's the priority problem that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57939	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Before we continue, I would like to meet the National Assembly and the esteemed MPs, to accompany at the gallery a part of this US delegation, which is present in the 20th session of the OSCE, accompanied by our president, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Present are Mr. Benjamin Cardin, U.S. Vice President, Mr. Christopher Smith, Mrs. Jenny Sajin, Mr. Robert Hend, Mr. Fred Turner, Mr. Alex Johnson, Mrs. Debbie Yamada, Mr. Mak Begić, Mrs. Cynthia Efird, Mr. David Ramserm, Mr. John Schwenk, Mr. Mark Milos, Mr. Robert Aderhold, Mrs. Lori Hayworth, Mrs. Kari Ševčik, Mrs. Darlin Smolman, Mr. Jeremy Newton, as well as her Excellency, US Ambassador to Serbia, Mrs. Mary Warlik and Mr. Paul Jukic. Let's give them a round of applause. We're continuing on the agenda. The word has the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57940	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President of the DRI Council, the Honorable Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today's debate on the report of these two very important institutions, represents a very important step for us in establishing a control of the spending of public finances in the country. In this context, the DSS believes it is very important to see in the right way what problems this country faces when it comes to corruption and in what ways it is possible to influence these corruption as little as possible, namely that the poored state and people are not being smuggled through public procurement systems, through various manipulations concerning the spending of funds from the public sector. It is common knowledge that corruption in every society is a cancer of wounds and obstacles to every advancement. As far as Serbia is concerned, there is indeed an uninvited situation. It is widely known that through public procurement systems, through insufficient domestic and rational spending of public funds in Serbia, data from those dealing with it has been reported to be more than a billion euros annually, representing almost a fifth of the total state-level assets. Of course, these two institutions, both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, are very important institutions that should, with their actions, influence and that this level of outflow of public funds, I would say, theft and thieving have been reduced as little as possible. In that sense, it is absolute support of the DSS to these institutions to do their job as high as possible and to see these results from their work as soon as possible. After all, we initiated the formation of the DRI and helped set up and its work. So, considering that it is really necessary to establish full control over the spending of public finances through the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, I am not sure that this work, although the DRI has existed for the fifth year, would say, in the best possible way to help through clear government definitions, through a clear, political will to want full control of the spending of state finances. This can be seen through numerous examples, one of the most important ones is that the DRI for more than two years and its advice were exposed to the full care of the state, or the governing structure, so that they had neither the working room nor the basic acts adopted to function. So we had literally people who had to run from one office to another, couldn't handle the space and weren't alone with their enthusiasm and their engagement to do that job that the state founded for. Unfortunately, even to this day, this situation is not to a significant extent, although the hand to heart, there are certain working conditions, but I am not sure that these working conditions are, above all, the DRI optimal and how they should be so that employees of the Council and all those working in it can properly control the money flows in the country and effectively implement the law under which they have established. The main objective of the DRI is to control how money is spent through the RS budget and through various ministries, through public enterprises, that is, extensive work and requires great expertise and great involvement of professional people, for which there were no assumptions until last year in terms of the fees themselves for the work of employees. There was a big program in the recruitment of professional people, because no one who knows that matter will work for a very small salary, because that job at private audit firms was much better paid than it was paid in the DRI. In that sense, changes to the law have been made and I think the situation is much better now. But what is expected as a concrete result, unfortunately still does not take the measures needed by this country and those measures that we expect as MPs, in general as a public in Serbia. The report on the DRI is said to have controlled various ministries, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, certain public enterprises, even said that by considering certain reports, the DRI encountered major irregularities in the spending of budget funds and that during 2010 and 2009, it submitted a number of misappropriations against various responsible persons in the ministries and in those organisations that were subject to control. So I would be very interested, if we were answered, what happened to those misdemeanors, as far as it happened, because I'm not sure that at least I don't have that information, that in any way, anyone who violated the law was punished in that way, which would be an example to everyone else that such things should not be repeated in the future. So I'm also interested in how far it's come with the control of public enterprises that the DRI is doing? I know it's about trans-naphtha control, the airport, the power grid and other public enterprises that are either budget users or have public authority as public enterprises to dispose of public finances. It would be interesting for the MPs and the public to hear what the results of this control are and whether there are irregularities and if there are, what measures are taken against those who have violated the law. Without clear measures that need to be followed by the DRI findings, for those irregularities observed during control, without clear and drastic penalties against the perpetrators, I am not sure that we will achieve anything on the plan to fight corruption, nor will Serbia advance in that index of corruption of countries in the world. Each country has a corruption problem, let alone some more, we do not, of course, expect that Serbia will completely eradicate corruption overnight, but we are sure that through the work of both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, this corruption index can be significantly reduced, i.e. that Serbia can progress on that corruption scale in order to send a signal to everyone who wants to start some business in this country, that in Serbia anyone who wants to do something can do something, does not have to bribe, any of the most state officials, whether local officials to exercise their right or to start a business. As for the Anti-Corruption Agency, we also believe that it plays a very important role in this universally declared fight against corruption. I mentioned earlier the general known information that several billion euros have been spent through public procurement in Serbia, and I will remind you that the budget deficit in recent years is exceeding a billion euros. So the fight against corruption in public procurement itself can replace us with a whole or at least part of the budget deficit, which would be very important for the country not to enter further loans, further borrowing that will certainly have a significant impact on its development in the coming years. It's a common-known thing to be through public procurement, through so-called. The rigging of the tender pours out big money, however, in order to successfully fight corruption, political will by the top of the state is necessary, as well as the fight against the eradication of corruption at the very top of the state. If there was no incentive for corruption by the state authorities themselves, it would probably not be or would be much less, but I think the Agency would have to either make a public announcement or act in accordance with its powers and in many cases relating directly to the summit of the state itself. Not to mention too much, I think it's a common-known thing to, say, top state officials, ministers appear as owners or so on. Former owners of companies that directly operate with state authorities in public procurement. You have advisors from ministers who do jobs for the state, and even for a full ministry with advisors. You have cases across Serbia in local self-government that the presidents of municipalities, city councils have their own companies that are direct suppliers, those public enterprises and institutions whose work is to be controlled. Even the mayors, there are several here sitting in the National Assembly, are also MPs, mayors, officials in the province government, which is also against the law, or against the law until the law is changed, but it is not a fight against corruption. I'm sorry, if the Agency is set up to prevent corruption, then we can't do a variety of achievements, the current government, the coalition is going to change the law to meet certain officials and that it's the opposite of a healthy logic and the exact opposite of the acts under which the Agency was founded. I wanted to have in your report, which is quite extensive, about 50 pages, read it, and I was most interested in those parts that concern the key results. I will try to read this briefly, says one section – key results, 92.4% of cases in the area of conflict of interest, developed guidelines for the development and implementation of plans, the first report was made, representatives of 51 associations informed about the position and role of civil society organisations etc. , etc., examined notices by officials, resolved 44 requests to grant consent to the second function, resolved by 794 requests for consent and notification, completed procedures in the first instance, given 228 opinions and interpretations, etc. etc. I expected to hear specific things in the Agency's report. These public procurements have been examined, and it has been concluded that there is no irregularity in these public procurements, so it is not possible that in tens of thousands of public procurements carried out in Serbia, there is no irregularity and it is not possible that the Agency could not have obtained any concrete result that certain public procurement, and you have hundreds of them, go only to the Public Procurement Authority, so look at how many public procurements are carried out in short periods, so examine at least one, and you will see how many negativity and how many irregularities there are. Let's label one institution or one official who has conducted public procurement by avoiding the law, not to say contrary to the public law, but by avoiding, passing the provisions of the law, so that we mark it, or that institution as someone who has violated the law and that it is appropriate for them to break the measures, in order to set an example for others. If the reports are where they are said to be – opinions given, 44 requests solved, etc. I don't think that's going to help directly and specifically in the fight against corruption. I just can't believe the Agency didn't deal with these things any deeper. What is expected of these two institutions is that with its concrete results and measures, and even actions towards judicial authorities, it influences that measures are being expressed towards concrete perpetrators, all descriptive things concerning these two reports will not help Serbia to reduce its index of corruption too much, until someone is clearly marked as someone who has violated the law and who has unlawfully obtained benefits, we will not go far. What's most drastic, it seems to us in the last two years, is last year's adoption of the Law on aid to the construction industry. This is a legal violation of the Law on Public Procurement, directly avoiding public obligations in work, and it is likely that the basis of every democratic society is public and transparency in the spending of state resources. You have dozens, hundreds of cases across Serbia to carry out certain projects and perform work where jobs are affected in four eyes. Similar companies have been selected by those who are business contractors, agreed on the amount of money to be paid for the construction of certain projects, and are now being carried out beyond any public control and beyond any market influence. I'm sure the Agency can choose a few cases, take independent experts to assess whether some works really cost or don't cost and give a report by that. These are a few things, several guidelines that the Agency can implement, and the results will be very interesting both for the public and for you. When these interesting results come out, or come out, then our independent reformed judiciary will react properly, and someone will finally say the measures and condemn them, and I don't think it's going to be the case with criminal reports from the DRI where he ate the donkey wolf. You have criminal charges, charges, but no one's guilty, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57941	Since no one is reporting from the authorised representatives or heads of the parliamentary groups for a word anymore, I would like to inform you that they agree to Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, until the opening of a joint single search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS and ZES parliamentary groups. I give my word to the MP from the ZES parliamentary group, Miss Natashi Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57942	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, representatives of independent bodies, I think it's great that we're discussing reports of the Agency and the DRI today, first of all because we have the opportunity to talk about the state of affairs in the areas dealing with these independent bodies, on the one hand. On the other hand, this debate confirms the relationship between independent bodies and the National Assembly that we wanted to establish when we passed the Law on the National Assembly and the laws on the work of independent agencies and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this way, we are trying to make one joint job, in this case and increase the transparency and accountability of the state's work in budgetary terms, and combating corruption, which is a joint task and the Anti-Corruption Agency and the National Assembly as representatives of citizens, in some ways, to look together and see what priorities are, the bodies dealing with policy-making and law-making should be realised in the next period. I think it is very clear that from the very beginning, since we started talking about the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Agency and other independent bodies, and in my speech I will focus on the Anti-Corruption Agency, there has been a clear support of the DS in conjecturing this agency's work and support that has been focused on strengthening and improving the Agency's work. For this reason, it is my pleasure to conclude that this report has found that there has indeed been great progress in strengthening the Agency's capacity, above all to strengthen human resources and you have support for everything that is relevant to the creation of adequate working conditions that the Agency should have. That goes for other independent bodies. The first job is undoubtedly the first job that needs to be done, and that's reporting property to state officials. This report clearly states what results have been achieved in this business, but some concrete measures have been applied, such as the fact that infringements have been initiated against a number of officials, who have disobeyed legal obligations to make their assets adequate and in accordance with the law of the application. That's good practice. My impression somewhere, on the one hand in this process, and the fight against corruption is a process that lasts, perhaps longer than we'd all like for longer than we expected at the very beginning, but it's my impression that amongst the state officials, all those who commit to reporting property, there is one improvement in understanding of the need to do so and to act in accordance with the law. The Democratic Party in this business provides full support to the Anti-Corruption Agency and there is no doubt about it. The second plan, which is extremely important in the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, is the development of integrity plans. Here I would like to draw attention to one recommendation, which seems very important to me, from the Agency's report, which is a recommendation that all the state authorities that are tasked with drawing up integrity plans must continuously work on the training of those people who work with them, therefore, officials, civil servants for making, but not just for making, I would say, and applying the integrity plan, because the integrity plan is just making it impossible for those elements that exist because of the specificity of the work of a certain state institution to lead to some forms of corruption. I think this recommendation is very important and I think the government should take this recommendation very seriously and prescribe it as an obligation for all parts of the state administration. Of course, the issue of corruption is, above all, about transparency in the functioning of state authorities. Whenever we talk about systemic corruption, we are also talking about how to increase transparency in our functioning. The unification of the criteria for making decisions on concrete issues is what I think is one of the first tasks, and I think the Agency's director also spoke about it in her opening speech. It is necessary to create as few conditions as possible for the arbitration decision of the Administration. This, of course, requires the improvement of the work of the Administration, the introduction of new technological achievements in the work of the Administration, which can significantly reduce that area for arbitral decision whether we allow or not to allow someone. The reform of the judiciary is, of course, a special topic and I want to put it in the context of the fight against corruption. Of course, the continued reform of the judiciary and the efficiency of the judiciary is a successful fight against corruption. Some recommendations that form an integral part of this report, such as The rapid adoption of the Law on the financing of political activities has already been adopted and I think we have achieved this good result together. What is, of course, coming is the application of this law and I think it is right and in the Agency's report we call for this need to apply the law as best as possible. I would like to stress that in the fight against corruption, we must pay attention to what is a segment of corporate corruption, if we want to call it that. So we have to fight at the same time to edit the area of public procurement, but we also have to protect competition and create conditions for the same position on the market, because that's also something that breaks opportunities for systemic corruption. So monopolies are something that simply encourages corruption. So eradicating corruption is our goal, but the anti-corruption process certainly means a gradual but rapid and effective reduction of corruption. One of the previous speakers spoke about that there are several forms of corruption, and it is certain that when we talk, first of all, about the activities of the Anti-Corruption Agency, we are talking about what systemic corruption is. So what is in the political system, in the process of making political decisions, what corruption allows and how to effectively prevent it, how state authorities and state officials act as responsiblely as possible, in accordance with the law and not be in that corrupt chain. Corruption, of course, exists in other areas. Unfortunately, citizens feel the most actually through the system of health, through the system of education and through all those systems that they come into contact with in everyday life. It's tied up, and each other's corruption encourages each other, surely, and enables, but it's important that we understand that different systems and mechanisms are against systemic and against this, to call it, day-to-day corruption. I would like to draw attention to one part of the report on the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, where it has been found that there is insufficient attention in the national strategy to health systems and education systems. It is a very important criticism, I think, of the anti-corruption strategy that should be amended by these subsequent plans to improve the anti-corruption strategy. Speaking of strategy, I think it is very important that, first of all, the objectives are measurable, that the indicators be clear, that the perpetrators be clearly defined and that there is coordination. These are the elements of every effective strategy, and I think that the particular, another fifth element, the participation of all actors in one process, is what is necessary, so that we can all experience a specific strategy as property, so that we have participated in the process of developing a strategy, because then we can take responsibility and the degree of responsibility for the implementation of this strategy. Parliament, the National Assembly wants to participate in the process. I think there are a lot of reasons for that, because parliament is a human rights guarantor, but also an organ that gives in some way legitimacy to all other forms of government. On the other hand, I'd like to share an experience with you. For example, Italy's parliament in its own time had one even ad-hod anti-corruption committee that tried to monitor in a very effective way how the elements of anti-corruption policy are realized. In this regard, I support this report by the Anti-Corruption Agency, and I believe that our co-operation, which we have successfully established, will continue with the very beginning of the Agency's work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57943	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, most of my time when I speak, or below, I will dedicate the DRI, but based on what I just heard from the exhibit and Mrs Markovic, but also on the representative of the assembly majority, I do need to say two or three sentences about the Anti-Corruption Agency, or for her report. If, Mrs. Markovic, you listened carefully to the head of the ZES parliamentary group, you have at this time received an answer as to why you are operating under extremely difficult circumstances. You know what Mrs. Kolundjia just said? The level of corruption is to an acceptable extent. It said from a low political initiative to distinguish between times when radicals were eventually part of the government and now they are power. While the political perception of corruption of those who make decisions in Serbia is such that the level of corruption is to one acceptable extent, you will come here from year to year and you will complain about your conditions, while they will also talk about how they support you, and we will all live in agony. Should we believe that the level of corruption in Serbia is acceptable? Well, that's what you don't believe. You fight, you know what you're going through in that fight, so don't expect any support from them, or count on better and acceptable conditions, as long as they have the kind of relationship they have towards corruption and this society. We're talking about a measurable level of corruption in a country where one of their time the director made bail of 710,000 euros to get out of prison. Now we need to close our eyes in front of that fact? Where did 710,000 euros get one man, Sarancic, to get out of jail? We're talking about a measurable level of corruption? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: What party is he from? So you didn’t mind the party when you and her destroyed this congregation and came to power. I must warn you or remind you that their conduct and you have helped. It wasn't us who brought them to power, it was you who came to power together. Everything that happened was consistent with you closing your eyes because it was your political interests. (President: I must ask only to allow the speaker Mr. Stevanovic to speak without direct address and without delay. Here you go. ) What I mean to tell you, Mrs. Markovic, you said earlier, I think you were talking about a relationship with congregation bodies, a precise shooting of topics. Is that right? Here are the MPs who are absolutely and at any moment in the SRS-Vojislav Seselj parliamentary group who are ready in the most open and brutal way to target topics and I think you are witnessing it and that you know it. As for that, in the Serbian Radical Party, you will absolutely have support. But, Mrs. Markovic, we want to and we want to expect from you, that you in the Agency open up the subject fiercely and brutally and point your finger to whoever stands in the signature of some corrupt act. Allow me, the Serbian Radical Party will really do nothing that will put your work and functioning at risk. We also appreciate that you do pioneer work, if you can call it that. But what do I expect from you? You cannot afford the privilege of a government ministry assigning a job to a construction firm, that the same construction firm pays millions of dinars to the party that controls the ministry and that your first statement in a statement is – unfortunately, it is also a practice in the countries of the European Union. I'm paraphrasing, that's what I read. So you, as someone who's in charge of a very serious agency, you can't afford such a luxury. We therefore ask you to point very clearly at anyone who is involved in corruption, who is involved in crime and to show courage and courage, whoever sits across from you at the table, to point your finger and say, from the President of the Republic to the last head of the local office, you are a thief, a criminal, because the Serbian language does not know any different qualifications or you are a good, honest and honest man or functioner. When such relations are established in the state and in society, and we will give you a warm support for such a thing, we do not have the right to behave differently from the model established by Vojislav Seselj, if you do not know how it is done, watch the trial in The Hague and courage, and courage and justice. And courage, and courage, and justice when you do something you believe in, they have no price. Then you go all the way. That's what this country needs to do to bring order to the state. But if you expect to be supported by those who say that the level of corruption is acceptable, then that job is barren. There's nothing to do with that. You don't have to go any further. Ask your colleague, Sretenovic, how long will he wait for another decade to provide him with space? When the conditions are acquired, they're likely to be conditions. Four hundred squares doesn't exist for a DRI without talking about who there's room for and how much space is untapped in this country. But that's just one thing and one example. So, everything I said, I said for the best. I really do, and I can guarantee on behalf of the party or the people with whom I am an associate that we will never do anything that will slow down your work, your work and your functioning. But you have to be, since you're sitting where you're sitting today, at the head of that column. That means courage, which means quotes and risks, but please accept that and I expect you, I repeat, point your finger. What's going on in Galennica? What's going on in these ministries? Here's the State Auditor's report, let's say who the quiet people are, they have a name and a last name, let's say who these people are and that the institutions deal with them. Mr. Sretenovic, we can talk today about the quality of your report. But the fundamental question is the political will and the political relations in which you operate. In these political relations, you expect your defects, what you found in your reports, in the ministries, in public enterprises, to get some epilogue, to get all this to come to an end. Who do you expect the outcome from? From the reformed justice system? Yesterday you had a debate in the Assembly in which one part of the ruling majority says that judicial reform is disastrous, and the one who conducted it says it is excellent. That you expect someone you found misusing taxpayers' money to process him, that's why he's answering, that's what we have problems with. The problems you insist on are technical, and it can wait, it will be solved, but these sick political relations, the corrupt political atmosphere, it's something that poisons both society and the state, and then you as an institution. I can say that your report is correct, but I'm asking what is the epilogue of all these things you found in one of your reports? Can you boast by putting a point on, say, that no internal control system has been established anywhere, or by most of the users you have tested have no internal control and no internal audit? How much of this report has changed to this day? How many political wills have shown to change that? The easiest thing is to come to the Assembly and say – you have our support, and practice and life deny it all. Look at this, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, without the procurement process – 200 million; the audited users paid less into Serbia's 397 million budget. They're ready for your support. He says the Treasury Department has made a three-million-dollar budget payment under a contract that is not concluded in accordance with the law or regulations that define it. The Treasury Administration, which takes the money, which controls the money of all taxpayers in Serbia, see what it does. The easiest thing to do is declare support, and when you get into the essence, when you go deep and into life, you see who the people who support you are. He said yesterday that Zoran Krasic would never take out the crow. I don't have enough time, unfortunately, otherwise there are some very interesting things here. What I'm trying to say, and as far as this report is concerned, to ask you a question, is that I'm interested in what's going on with these infringement proceedings, what's their epilogue? You have the Ministry's objection to every detection of their irregularities. They're all great, they're great, and we're getting poorer and more messy. What I'm interested in, on behalf of the SRS, is what are the intentions and what will be the strategy for revising the budget of local self-government? What the SRS insists on is that the sooner you create the conditions, as much as it depends on you, to enter local self-government, to enter public enterprises at local level, public enterprises that behave more brazenly and brazenly than all institutions together in Serbia, to stop the main topic in Serbia being the National Assembly, to see theft, to see abuse in a small public enterprise, in a municipality with 20,000 people. Let's not talk about Galenika, so those who cause problems in Galennica lead us to the EU. Not to mention the final accounts of local self-government, when they're adopted, whether they have audits, what they're doing, etc. What's also interesting, in the report you put, which we welcome, is that sufficient reliable and relevant evidence has been collected on the basis of which you started all the proceedings. That's good, but this applies to both you and Mrs. Markovic, if you think you're editing the state. It is your duty to recognize the problems and to act preventively through their resolution, so when three or five people suffer political responsibility, criminal, material, whatever, let's see who dares to do so in the next period. So it is your duty to establish it, with all the problems you have. I'll finish, given the time, I'm just interested in something, Mr. Sretenovic. The DRI showed a solid austerity measure, compared to the money you spent and the money you were granted from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Perhaps at this point, given the general situation in society and in the state, you can be an example. Whether this is a mistake or not, this is a substantiation for you, concerns salaries, allowances and employees' fees, and you said that since 1 July 2010, much more money has been spent on passing laws, among other things, saying "for paying off an institutional allowance to all employees". The table shows that these are the very additions to payment – zero. Is that a mistake or something you can explain, I don't know. Those are the questions I'd like to ask. In any case, what I can tell you, if in the next election Serbia clears up with a 10-year policy and the SRS gets a chance and a chance to decide, what we can promise you is that you will get conditions for brutally dealing with crime and corruption. That's what we can do, and I think it's enough to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57945	Thank you. Mr Nenad Konstantinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57946	Dear Vice-President, President of the Anti-Corruption Agency, State Auditor and Assistants, Agency Director and Few People's MPs, I think it's a great thing for all of us to come to the conclusion that for the first time in history, reports of independent regulatory bodies are being discussed in front of the Serbian Parliament, that it is a great and historic thing that we have succeeded in the past few years to form independent regulatory bodies and support them in their work. I think the number of MPs in the O.R. is also saying that we are not aware ourselves that independent regulatory bodies are actually an extended hand of the Assembly in the control of the executive authority. It was obviously not understood by certain representatives of the opposition, especially by the SNS, who talks about fighting corruption and stories, and when they can come to the Serbian Parliament, to make concrete proposals, to comment on the Anti-Corruption Agency's report, there are none in the hall at all. Their story is obviously just political marketing, and when something needs to be done, they're nowhere to be done. There are two reports ahead of us. I'll talk more about the Anti-Corruption Agency's report. I must admit that I am also personally proud to have formed this agency a few years ago, the Assembly has formed a single law and that we have succeeded as a Assembly to elect such people on the Agency's board to receive a truly detailed report after a year of work, which we can say to the institution that it is very successful in its work. The Anti-Corruption Agency has also co-operated with political parties, all political parties in the past, co-operated with both the Assembly and the government, when it comes to the adoption of certain laws. I thank the Agency for helping us to form an amendment and supplement of the Agency's Law, where I think in the right way and responded in time to correct what was in the law which was potentially not good, so that the Agency's work would be better and more effective. I thank the Agency's director, who played a significant role in preparing the Law on the financing of political parties, led a working group. We have brought into this assembly a new Law on the financing of political parties, on the basis of which we should absolutely and disabling and preventing any kind of corruption in this area. The agency has a large field of action and I think that in the coming years it will show how important an institution is. What has been done in the first year is really for every praise, it is that we have thought three or four times more registered officials than we had in the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, sometimes, that these officials have all reported their property, that the Agency is very valuable from reporting property to today's work on identifying any possible changes, I think that the MPs know well, we all get a regular letter from the Agency that we need to supplement or explain, explain, and I think that's good. I think that part of the job will be done the moment the Agency acts that all state authorities bring together integrity plans. It has to happen this year and the beginning of next year. Then I think we'll be able to round up the part about property and conflict of interest. The Agency has done a lot in the past year of conflict of interest. I think we've been able to overcome everything that we've been dealing with, and legal problems, so that it absolutely doesn't suffer the decision of the citizens who will be in which position, and on the other hand, to slowly put them in order and to meet the principle that one man should not be in more position, especially if those functions are in conflict. I think it takes us another practical year and that next year we will have an absolutely regulated system and that conflict of interest will no longer be an important topic in Serbia. What I want to recommend to the Agency for the next period, it's that much more, these things have been encouraged so far, but in the coming period that much more is based on concrete control of corruption. You have opportunities, resources, I think they're secure, you absolutely have all the support of the ruling coalition and you have the DS support you've had so far in what you're doing. You have no obstruction by any political party. I think you should focus on very specific cases and curb corruption in the coming period. We expect you as the Assembly to be effective in this business, both you and the State Auditor. There is absolutely no need for any doubt about the honesty of the parties that are now in power, the DS has declared fighting corruption as the most important thing we will be dealing with in the next period, so I ask you to go to this job and be uncompromising in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57947	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57948	Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which you as the government so pompously announced, to this day this government has done about 15% on this plan. So 15% has been done in six years and simple mathematics tells us that if this trend continues, it would take 40 years to fully comply with all those measures envisaged by the Anti-Corruption Strategy. But you decided to do something else. You've now decided to write, as you say, some new embedded anti-corruption strategy. What's happened so far is nothing, let's go again, now a new strategy will be made and after that everything will probably be fine. Is that so? It's purely a waste of dust for the citizens of Serbia. What do you guarantee now that this new anti-corruption strategy will be better than this old one? Is it a guarantee that Stefan Phil came by and said you weren't okay with this old one? Is that a guarantee that the new one will be better? Certainly not, it's just one of the orders you receive in the sea of those warrants, not only in this area, but in everything else. Now let's see what the difficulties you say you have in fighting corruption. So, what are the brakes that keep you from fighting corruption from being so good, so effective and so adequate a strategy to fight corruption. From what I understand, you listed some five elements that represent those anti-corruption brakes. One of the first is the will of the authorities to fight corruption. I agree with that, the will of the bearer of power is gone. It shows us all of this so far what we're doing on this plan. The next resistance is to change by the system's institution. It's already 90-100%. And you're right about that. The resistance of institutions exists. Somewhere it's an absolute resistance of 100%, and somewhere it might be relative, there's 90%, especially where it's supposed to be dealt with by political inexperiences. The lack of expert personnel is the next element. On that element, I won't speak. It's up to you to fight for it. I can't believe that in this country, where we have so many unemployed and young and professional people, you have a lack of personnel. The next element is finance. It is possible that finance is a problem, I could agree with you that you do not have enough money to fight corruption, but, gentlemen, I link it to the first element, with the will of the ruling majority to fight corruption. In translation, no will, no money. Well, you can't expect them to give you enough money to fight corruption when they don't want to fight that corruption. One of the elements that is listed is the poverty that favors corruption. It is true that there is enormous poverty, but I have the impression that there are some things involved here, that the causes and consequences are actually mixed. You don't work enough on causes to prevent consequences. That's the basic thing. Otherwise, I agree that poverty is one of the essential elements that represents a brake in this operation. What has the government come up with in some past period about allegedly preventing corruption? The minister of justice has been appointed co-ordinator of state authorities in the fight against corruption. I'm sure the Minister of Justice knows very well that it violates the law and violates the Constitution. He knows perfectly well that there is a strict division between three types of government, especially between court and executive. When she says she's going to get heavily involved there and coordinate everything, from the prosecution to the other state authorities, there's elements of the violation of the Constitution at the first step. Well, she can't get involved where she doesn't belong, you know what the D.A.'s office is, you know what the public authorities are, and you know whose jurisdiction it is. So the minister of justice can't be some co-ordinator between state authorities, the prosecution knows what he's doing, etc. He mentions it in one place, "Colabar," and he mentions "Gallenika." But why just Kolubara and Galenika? Where are hundreds of other privatisations done in a mob way? I have the impression that this is just one buffer zone between the prosecution, on the one hand and you, as the Anti-Corruption Agency on the other. I have the impression that the minister of justice is just setting up like that buffer zone just in case, evil shouldn't be. I think you totally understand what I'm saying. You'll see in your future work, you'll remember that I was absolutely right. Why the coordinator to monitor all this, why the coordinator to monitor all objects? The minister says that corruption is a relic of the past, a relic of some time spent, but I'm telling you there's absolutely no dilemma, and I'm going to show it on one case. It's not corruption of the relics of old times and past. Do you know about the statements of several tycoons or these controversial businessmen, several of them said that 10 times more had been enriched after October 5th than before? You can see for yourself that's not true. You know what it was about the government's anti-corruption strategy, not to mention, do you know what the government needed from the moment the anti-corruption strategy was adopted so far to do anything that it didn't do? So that's what I was just talking about - the will of the ruling majority. It's basic in the fight against corruption. That's where you probably meet as the biggest problem in the fight against corruption. I believe as long as this power is and while this is the way to fight corruption, it is an unsolvable enigma for you. On that side, I can understand you in part. I ask the question whether you and anyone need it, but this again applies to the Serbian government, to come to Serge Brammertz and say that this strategy is wrong, that this anti-corruption strategy is a simple boast, so he said, that it is not passing through in Europe and that a new strategy must be adopted? When the results of the fight against corruption were to be summed up for this time of six years, you were given the idea to adopt a new integrated anti-corruption strategy. Where's the real thing, where's the real fight against corruption? Where is the real fight against money laundering, against some monster that will lead this country to ruin? No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Where are you on this report from the Anti-Corruption Agency? Are the tycoons absolutely protected in this report and in every other report? Are the tycoons the ones who are the subject of the Agency's interest in fighting corruption? They were untouchable to the government, and to many others in this country, but no, you give us an example of one committee member who, at the same time, served as a board member in one company. Do you think it'll solve the problems in this country? Do you think if you found a council member there, who is also a member of the board of directors, that these are the crucial problems of this country or that council member who was also the director of a company? It's not gonna work out. People, believe me, the head smells like fish. Try working with your head if you can. I have the impression that it's all a blur and that if a councilman or a member were to be stamped, it really doesn't solve anything. I'd like to mention some of Mrs. Zorana Markovic's views. At one forum she said – I am extremely pleased that we have gathered together today in this number because it is a sign that we have all come to our throats. Well, there's been a hug for the citizens of Serbia. Don't lie to me. It didn't come to you or to us, it came to Serbian citizens' throats. It should be clear to everyone, especially to you, who fight corruption specifically and directly or should fight. What is your threat to the struggle against Mrs. Zorana Markovic? She says corruption is jeopardising the first democratic fluids, jeopardising the government's efforts, jeopardising the integrity of this government, that the weak institutions of the system, weaken trust in power, weaken morale, weakens the country's economic strength. I'll try to take a brief look at all the categories you're saying corruption is weakening. When this is thoroughly analyzed, it comes to the conclusion that this is absolutely nothing true. First of all, there is no threat to democratic fluids, because I'm sorry, the real democratic fluids anywhere in the world are not bribery, corruption, crime, robbery, mob privatisation, childcare, disease, disability, etc. So, a simple and logical conclusion, what does not exist cannot be compromised and that is clear. Keep going. There is no endangering the government's efforts to overcome the crisis. No, it's because this country is so innocuously in debt. It goes on to destroying agriculture this bloody way, that strategic branch of our economy, which is so blood-relieving workers from work. So there's no lack of trust in the government. The main thing is that this government is leaving power, and only then are conditions being created to achieve a real and true fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57949	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The next in a row of MPs is MP Vlatko Ratkovic, the ZES parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57950	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Markovic, Mr. Sretenovic and his associates, yesterday and today, the parliament is discussing very important issues. Important for implementing laws that regulate the position and competence of regulatory bodies, independent regulatory bodies, but I would also say very important general social issues. In transition societies such as Serbia, the position, jurisdiction, the position of independent regulatory bodies is invaluable, especially in the system of the division of powers that we have in our constitutional and legal system, independent regulatory bodies already have their reputations, Colloquially said, as the fourth branch of government. I would say that, with the construction of institutions, in the construction of democratic institutions, in addition to three branches of public authorities, and in addition to public opinion, media and civil society, the most significant role certainly play an independent regulatory body. Whether it is the area - the control of public finances conducted by the DRI, whether it is the Agency for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, or the Anti-Corruption Agency. As for the Anti-Corruption Agency and the report presented to the parent board and the proposal for conclusions sent by that committee to the plenary session, I can say that the report is comprehensive, that it is deep, that it analyses all segments of the work of this institution and what is more important, it projects the objectives and tasks in the coming period. In addition to the concrete activities presented in this report by the Anti-Corruption Agency, I believe that this system activity is more important, therefore, the activities of the Anti-Corruption Agency, in terms of the legislative initiative and in terms of the control function which Mrs Markovic spoke about, and in terms of strategic audits, the revision of strategic documents, especially the government strategy of the Republic of Serbia to fight corruption, which, in many segments, we have heard, anachron, overcome and which, definitely, has to be improved. Some fellow MPs today, whether out of ignorance, or using a political vocabulary bordering demagogy, simply prosecute and interfere with public authorities' competences and the authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency. So when we say corruption, the first association of the average citizen is corrupt crimes for which it is not competent, firstly, the Anti-Corruption Agency, but the competent state authorities, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and, of course, the judiciary as an independent branch of the government. We took a big step along with you, Mrs Markovic, when we recently had a public debate and a public hearing in this House on the Law on the financing of political activities. It is a system law and system regulation that allows corruption to be reduced to a minimum in this important area of financing of political parties, and in general, to finance political activities. There are many other areas where the Anti-Corruption Agency, I say, has had this affirmative action. You mentioned today and we were following up on the presentation of fellow Members, and we also saw on the website of the Constitutional Court of Serbia a decision made on your initiative on the basis of the constitutionality of certain provisions of the parent law. What is important to point out, as regards the relationship between Parliament and you representing these important institutions, is that your independence is ensured by the law and by the implementation of that law. We had problems at first. We contacted, Mr. Sretenovic probably remembers, and around the space, and about the status of employees etc. I can say that in the media of those first months after the constitution of these institutions, there was one real hack to parliament, to the government, that there were no conditions for smooth and independent work or DRI, and the Anti-Corruption Agency. It just took some time, technically, to put it this way, conditionally speaking, to solve technical problems. I think both of these institutions are operating today in full capacity in terms of human resources, in terms of the structure of employees, their expertise, etc. We are facing a joint business of passing very important laws that are important to us, not only for the sake of the European agenda, but also for the restructuring of the entire social system, and for various areas. For example, I will list the public sector system, i.e. public enterprises, large state-level enterprises, and local companies whose founders are local self-government municipalities and cities. Today, I was encouraged and happy to hear that the directors of public enterprises will be elected in competitions in the future, not in the division of these portfolios according to political membership. That is, what is used in a peri-curious sense as – the prey of political parties. In my view, it is also an important step forward against systemic corruption, systemic political corruption. Corruption, the etymological meaning of the word corruption, is corruption, to remind. In the translation of corruption means the corruption of a system. So, one under-organized system and the possibility of abuse, firstly, by public authorities. One of the important issues that we are opening today is the question of monoplomia, i.e. the protection of competition. In front of us and in front of this house, I hope by the end of the year there will be a new law on the protection of competition. I think it's something where the Anti-Corruption Agency can say a lot, in terms of the amendments and the joint work on drawing up a draft and a proposal for the act. These reports, which have been discussed on the parent boards and which we are looking at today at both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, are comprehensive. We need to realize that they are valid, that they contain sufficient parameters, indicators and criteria for the work of these agencies so far, as well as what is stated in the recommendations in those reports. Of course, I will support with my DS colleagues the proposal of these conclusions that have been delivered to us. In any case, our parliamentary group will always be available to independent regulatory bodies, at least in this segment concerning the work of parliament, which is the adoption of laws, and through the work of the parent committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57951	I thank Mr. Ratkovic. The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57952	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the famous Serbian writer Milovan Glisic wrote in his "Head of Sugar": "Do you not know what our captains are? It's simple, if he doesn't want to hear it, he won't hear it until you crack it. It used to be given in plain sight, and now it's going nicely under your hand. People know their tempers, so what they're going to do is pay. To complain again, where, a kick, with a hornet, will come to an end." How is it today in the 21st century? Many surveys of corruption in our country back several years have shown that virtually nothing has changed, i.e. that all those available instruments are working here, and unfortunately none of them are anywhere near an abolition. The facts could say that about everyone or everything has a price, and the biggest problem in curbing corruption is certainly its cover-up and especially what is being followed by the state sector that has actually been a fertile ground for the emergence of corruption in the past precisely because of the great interventionism of the state. Due to restrictions on economic freedoms, import, export contingents, price ceilings, monopoly position, poor tax mechanisms, etc., on taxes, on customs duties of various other duties imposed by the state, businesses today still see as a cost and often seek to just bribe these obligations. However, all this leads to the tax period being practically transferred to those poorer companies or individuals who have no one in a particular position. The result of this situation is, of course, and not enough inflow of funds into the budget, and hence, it is no wonder that the employees of education, health care, other social activities, along with these small personal incomes that they receive, therefore, often occur and corruption, but obviously it is a vicious circle from which at least at this point in time from this perspective it is very difficult to come out. A special story is public enterprises, and I would take this opportunity to specifically refer to the business of the public company JAT because of this expected report by the auditor who is doing this financial business control, so it will certainly have some special weight, if it is known that it is like other public enterprises, but JAT has always been the subject of both the party and post-election subjugation and the results of the audit that this eager public expects above all, could give at least a partial answer to this key question, how and why our air carrier is choking in debt. It may also be determined how JAT spends millions of infusions that through subsidies and loans, it has been coming from the state budget in recent years. I'll just remind you that about two days ago, here, we verified the latest 51m-euro loan. Therefore, the concrete results and effects of all current controls and audits of financial operations have never been practically notified to the public, and according to certain data in the previous six years, the authority has twice controlled this public enterprise and the accent has been placed on the payout of earnings and public procurement for the period 2004 to 2006. Just when it comes to public procurement, the budgetary inspectors found that the company did the procurement without an annual plan, and according to the report of the auditor "JAT" had an annual public procurement plan, but the document was a shrub, i.e. it did not contain all the elements prescribed by the law. According to the Public Procurement Act, the annual procurement plan is a basic prerequisite for the procurement to be carried out at all. However, regardless of the legal obligation in JAT, procurement has been made in the country and abroad by over 900 suppliers. The value of the procurements was as much as 8.7 billion dinars, however, was found in the control process, so certain purchases were made without any application of the procedure prescribed by the law. So, past the law, over 200 suppliers whose value is slightly less than 2.5 billion dinars were made. For example, without a tender, goods and services were provided by over 50 suppliers in the country and the value of individual purchases ranged from one million to one billion dinars. It was the exact same situation with 124 suppliers from abroad, of which JAT was supplying spare parts without a tender. In fact, how problematic these purchases are, the best say figures, i.e. the value of individual purchases of spare parts from foreign companies, and this example works from the Netherlands 27.9 million dinars, Italy 28.6, Turkey 46.6, France 80 million, England 107.5 million, America 544 million dinars, Switzerland 513, Belgium 626 million dinars, etc. So all these purchases individually exceeded the amount of a million dinars then by Article 17. The budget law was limited in order to consider some procurement to be of high value. For them, however, JAT did not call a tender at all. By controlling some of the individual public procurement, budget inspectors have found that JAT has opened two tenders as large-value purchases, to maintain the purchase of spare parts for computers and maintenance services and replacement of spare parts of the rolling stock. According to official statements, however, both tenders were annulled so that the purchases would then be made to that so-called. By means of a detour, regardless of the value of the purchase was 1.3 - 1.4 million dinars, it is clear that the procedure and the purchase of small value was unlawfully applied, i.e. that method with three offers. If all of these examples are the result of an audit method called a random sample, which has been achieved by this audit technique to jump, then it is really worrying what would have been discovered that the control of all public procurement in this public company has been carried out. The devastating fact is that none of the executives have ever been responsible for the abuse and violation of the law in the area of public procurement of the company. Of course, it doesn't have to be too wise to draw the conclusion that exactly public procurement that exceeds 10 billion dinars is practically the core of almost total annual expenditures of JAT. A similar story is with other public enterprises, and what else to conclude except that if money from the state budget, years ago, the Serbian government serves to patch up holes and cover losses, then it practically means that the money of all citizens is covered both by lawlessness and procurement corruption. This without a doubt imposes an obligation on both the state auditor and the police and the prosecutor's office to verify their business in detail and determine their responsibilities. When it comes to "JAT" in particular, here it may be possible to start from a statement by former CEO, Mr. Sasa Vladisavljevic, who said on 25 May 2009 literally "We are damaged by our inaction or corruption in the company itself for about 50 million dollars, and all cases have been processed". However, it is clear that for a more effective fight against corruption, first of all, strengthening institutions, passing more effective laws and, of course, more adequate criminal policies and what is obviously missing in Serbia, and that is a responsibility for everything that seems to be. As far as we are concerned in the SRS, we really expect that during this coming period you will have enough power to have your reports contain more serious facts than the increased bar companies of individual ministries, and we sincerely hope that you will finally announce for the public Mrs. Zorana Markovic's answer to our question about how the SNS is financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57953	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic will receive the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57954	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the DRI, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Corruption Agency, we are very pleased to approach today's debate. First, I thank you for all these exhaustive reports that have been made very pedantic, with a lot of effort they are very transparent and very clear. I would first like to say a few words about the DRI report, it is very reviewed, very clear, and I am particularly pleased that here in the report it is noted that there are paid and membership fees in international associations and European associations, which speaks about the credibility of this institution, because it is not easy to elect membership in those international institutions. I only have one question about this report. Since we see that you spent some of the money on the purchase of computer equipment and that you have a website, how much is it and the DRI site? We'd like to know, we don't have that in this report here, and because of the public and for everything that's been around the sites, it's important to make it clear how much it's spent on this independent regulatory institution that's very important for this country's democratic order. When we talk about the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, above all all all praises on the account of this agency, and I must say that you have done a huge job, because within a very short time, you have received 16,000 reports of republican officials who have been reviewed, updated, where you have published a register of officials within a reasonable time, which is very important for the public in this country, because the democratic public, the media and citizens have the right to know who is in this country and who are paying for it. When it comes to DS, we are really essentially committed to fighting corruption, not just programically, it is not just in our programme, it is seen from the day-to-day functioning of DS. I must remind you that not all MPs in this room voted in favour of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, that not everyone supported the amendments to the law, that not everyone supported your choice, and that speaks of the fear of individuals from the existence of such an agency. Of course, when we talk about corruption and when we talk about the degree of corruption in Serbia, it is important to note that in 2000 we were the first country in Europe and among the world's top 10. It's no small thing to be the first in Europe, but when it comes to tennis, water polo, volleyball. In 2000, a lot of work by the current government was invested in the championship crown. That championship crown, the world's champion crown, has also put a lot of work into it. It's no small thing to be around Angola, Somalia, Colombia. We are no longer in the company of these countries, we are no longer treated on that black map of corruption. Of course, corruption should always be contained, always fought against it, because it speaks of the moral depravity of a society, but when we talk about fighting corruption, they speak much better than words. From the DS ranks, there are no MPs here who are charged with the crime of corruption. No DS MP called for immunity from the Administrative Committee because he was caught receiving bribes. No DS MP was beaten by power workers who came to cut off his power. No DS MP stole electricity, so when they catch him stealing electricity, and they say, "Wait, sir, you have to pay for the electricity, and he comes out, and he insults them and kicks them out, and then he calls for parliamentary immunity." When we talk about fighting corruption, some in this room with great ease accept the heavy burden of condemning others and dismissing such a burden. It's very easy to see a thorn in other people's eyes, and they don't see the noise in their own eyes, and so clouded, of course, that they come into a situation where they're told, here's DS is the most corrupt party, and then they're ambushed by the Administrative Board and they say, wait till we see a list of those who are accused of corruption and then they're embarrassed because they keep pointing their finger at others, instead of pointing that finger a little bit at themselves and looking at the mirror, wondering what kind of we are. Of course, the fight against corruption is also being fought by strengthening institutions that contribute to the fight against corruption. I will just remind myself, when we voted for the Anti-Corruption Agency, for this law, trees and stones, some of them broke down and the composition and very excellent composition of the Anti-Corruption Agency, from very moral, honest and professional people, where we had a situation that many bothered by Professor Cedomir Cupic, most of all bothered those who were ministers in the government of this country and were accused of heavy acts against corruption. Today, they give the loudest lectures on the fight against corruption. Those who have implemented corruption in Serbia's political life, those who have invented, patented corruption, today are drilling into their breasts, calling for their own honesty, forget that they have committed severe abuses as government ministers, that they have shared clothes for their employees and their associates, that they have printed party books on the cost of the RS budget, that these party books have bought about the cost of the country's taxpayers. Of course, I don't have to mention them, they'll recognize themselves, I can see that some of them bend their heads when I talk about these unkind events from our past. I want to say that today we have one situation where Serbia becomes a much more orderly society, which rests on strong democratic pillars, on independent institutions, on independent regulatory bodies, that these bodies should be given constant support, encouraging them to do their job even more concretely. I am convinced that this assembly will discuss both specific cases and concrete examples, as Mr Sretenovic said at the outset. This is just a report on the DRI's work, but it's not a report on those reports that DRI filed. Also, people from the Anti-Corruption Agency have said, this is just a report on working with the most important recommendations on what needs to be taken and what measures to achieve, in order for Serbia to be even more orderly and even better on that map of corruption, that we once reach that level that has Denmark, New Zealand and other countries that have significantly reduced corruption and are in the first place. There are many problems why we are not equal to these countries, but the key lies that some have been energetically opposed to the formation of such independent regulatory bodies. Now we understand why against these independent regulatory bodies, when we see the report of the Administrative Committee, we see the reasons for their fear, we see the reasons for their panic, but their fear and their panic shouldn't burden the whole society. It should be a burden on their past, their political action, not burdening the citizens of Serbia. We cannot put two-ton weights on Serbian citizens' feet and make them jump 100 metres away. It cannot be with such weights and with such a burden and cannot bear the fight against corruption to be those political parties that patented and implemented invented corruption in Serbia's political life. Of course, some may not be comfortable with me saying this, some will welcome this with approval, but I will finish my presentation with a message that you should continue to do your job even better as decisively as you have done so far, that you always look at yourself better, that you are always like the goddess Justicia with a blindfold and a sword of justice in your hands, and that this sword of justice always separates from evil, justice from violence, wisdom from stupidity, but above all, honesty from depraved corruption. The sword works best when citizens of this country, in the form of a pen that has been voted on and Serbian citizens for 10 years, have clearly shown that they can recognize who these real anti-corruption fighters are and who they have invented and brought into Serbia's political life. I truly share the pride of having citizens who can recognize and share the satisfaction that these two independent regulatory institutions are working in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution, and I am particularly proud that, together with my friends from the DS, when voted for your election, I have pressed that button and voted for you, and I will do so when I vote for your report, calm conscience and absolutely certain that I am doing a good job for the benefit of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57955	The word is Dr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57956	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the Honorable Chairman and respected representatives of the regulatory bodies, are now in a good way connected these two points of our agenda, because we're all going to have to agree, I think we're unique here, that both regulatory bodies, and how important they are to prevent corruption, and corruption is again, we should agree, I'll try to prove, it's one of the wounds of this society. If I were to just look at these two reports with two or three sentences, I think they're characterized by something that can be carried out as a conclusion, which is that I can't today both regulatory bodies in full capacity to perform their functions. That's what you said and we see it from other reports unequivocally. We know when the law was passed in this congregation, which we didn't vote for in this way, and we'll say why. Now here's a simple answer -- we're telling you that you run with laws that are unrealistic and that you can't realize in life. Here's proof here, examples of people, that they can't accomplish all the activities that are foreseen by law, and you've already changed the law, this one since 2008, with 30 members in 2010, which also speaks of one indifference and Serbian Radical Party MPs point to that. That's why, in the interest of the citizens, we don't want to raise our hand here. Of course, you reject our amendments with a list and do not respect it. Then why should we respect your concepts? Mr. Konstantinovic said this is a very important topic and, of course, he gave a lecture on the absence of a styrofoam of executors, who are not here. That's what he said and ran away, he ran away. So he proved by his work how he was holding on to it, that it was important and, of course, he used it for political purposes. Well, the ones you invented and the ones you grow and today you won't even see here today. Why would they be? They have a better solution – you give them open media and you give them. What if they ran here and tried, when they'd be there in the set-up shows and scenarios together with you, talking to the citizens as well as to how safe it is for them? I mean, let's just leave it alone. It doesn't matter, it's the story we need to talk about, and it's these two agencies. Just one sentence and a comment. When we look at the state audit body, you see, they partially carry out their imaginary tasks that we thought they would perform. They can't even make a revision of the direct users of the budget. Some ministries take the method of random elections. I don't know why they're used to putting certain ministries in focus, not some other. That would be interesting to know. Then you can see they took three public enterprises. What about the other public enterprises? Why aren't these all public enterprises? When you have a place, just a review at the bar, it's just a catastrophic situation. Then you have, for example, in the central municipality of Vračar that this central municipality of Vračar rather than, according to the recommendations of the European institutions, which are here and how esteemed, the public sector privatises, no, the state creates public companies for the summer and recreational teaching of children. The money of the citizens from the budget pumps into the newly created company, faster and better, and of course the audit does not look, and there, when you look at anything could be found. The most I'm going to talk about is this second report on the Anti-Corruption Agency. I owe it for a lot of reasons. First of all, I'm a doctor. Secondly, I'm a member of the Health Committee. Then, problems related to corruption and health care are enormous. In order not to speak in my mind, if you are looking at a public opinion survey in Serbia on corruption, then you will see that health care is indicated to be one of the leading sources of this corruption. In that same report, you will see that, if we look at social sectors, with the healthcare of the competition of the institution of this system, which should be the bearers of the fight and prevention against corruption, which are, of course, political parties, judges, prosecutors and lawyers. I'm not gonna read the charts, but everything I'm saying is covered in clear data, but let me skip that. On the other hand, you who want pro-forma in such a parade way as to go to Europe, have filled out the questionnaire and there you are fine in chapter 23 at point 36 said corruption is a major problem for Serbia. Then you added that according to the perception of citizens and research health care, the police, the judiciary are leading. So you put the health care into this category. From this report of yours, I'm now asking one question, if I may, I don't see that the health system has been the subject of the Agency's serious interest. In society, however, there is a controversial action against petty corruption. But that's selective, too. When you need someone, you process them. Every time you scratch a little, you always find unprincipled reasons to do it. I haven't seen anyone who's given bribes have been processed yet, and they should be under our legal regulations. It's not there. However, systemic corruption is a taboo topic, taboo topic, and for your agency. Cases of systemic corruption have been documented on several round tables and on several NGOs websites. Here, and you received the other day proven examples of systemic corruption in health- Anti-Law trade on waiting lists at the Institute of Oncology of Vojvodina, with the approval of the Ministry of Health, thus denying the timely treatment of over 400 domestic insurance patients. You also got the names of the people who got hurt, who died without the therapy they were supposed to get. Both you and the other institutions remain silent. A 2006 emergency case, agreement between doctors and undertakers, reconstruction of two Belgrade-based clinical centres of Zvezdar and Zemun with loans from the European Investment Bank of about 8m euros. The harsh violation of the Public Procurement Act as well as the Law of the European Community, under which these contracts are concluded. The reconstruction of the Royal Health Center from the World Bank's loan, I'm not going to tax it, it's also a number of materials that are supported. The reconstruction of four clinical centres from the European Investment Bank loan, for which 150 million has already been withdrawn. Buying a vaccine. All this is not of interest to these people who are thrilled with the progress, the improvement and your good work. Of course, the law says that, I don't want to say what's said on the whistle, and that's where your members of the Council say - the state is trapped corruption. Here, one of your council members said, I have here, if you're interested, when and where, on one whistle he said it. It's that website that the American and Norwegian embassies fund. Not to talk about what's said there, what are drastic examples of corruption there. It doesn't exist, and there is, it's real, it's real life. You there by law need to resolve conflict of interest, and you've dealt with officials to prevent it. However, systemic legal solutions, which allow this in the Health and Insurance Act, are not at all your business. So how do you deal with prevention? You want me to list the members of the 199 and 202 Law that regulate so-called. supplemental work? Finale is a rule on additional work that a civil servant can work in the morning as a statesman by means of state funds, and in the afternoon as a private employee so-called. Evening hospitals. That doesn't touch you. Or in the Insurance Act, Article 57. – waiting lists, famous, you can skip if you pay. What about human rights, equal health care? Well, non-standard legal services. Let's not talk about other members when we want to talk about the prevention you need to deal with. You have to point to corrupt laws in health care that generate corruption. You don't have that. My question is why? To finish, a round table was held a few days ago. He says, "Corruption in health care and the process of Serbia's Eurointegration." It is interesting who was the guest – Paul Winken, president of the European Anti-Fraud and Health Corruption Network. They also said they called you, called the Health Department, responded only to a representative of the Simeon, and no one came. What did Mr. Winken say? He said, for those who love the EU, this way: "He pointed out the situation, in which many patients die because they do not get the necessary help. That's what a lack of transparency and a powerful lobby contributes to. It's hard to detect where money goes and who funds the system. The catastrophic problem in Serbia, but also in other countries, is informal payments to doctors. Specific to Serbia is that part of these informal payments has become formalised. Two and a half million Serbian citizens suffer from it. "It takes this officer from Europe to come and tell us this. Then someone's gonna hold my Filipinos for how great the situation is, how good this is. This is a problem, unfortunately, which you have to deal with, if you want to make the intensities of the law and what you should do, do. Otherwise, all of this is clear and Serbian citizens fully recognise that the corrupt government is part of the democracy, which is financed from corruption, a major obstacle to fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57957	Thank you. Mr Bozidar Delic, Vice-President of the Assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57958	Dear Chairman, Mr Sretenovic, Mrs Markovic and his associates, fellow MPs, this is a rare opportunity to have leaders of two important independent state institutions, which are also constitutional categories in one place. I've met him here before in Mr. Sretenovic's hallway, and every time I meet him, I feel bad, because when I meet him, I think about what kind of state we live in. I didn't get a chance to meet Miss Markovic. If we have two institutions that are state, or constitutional categories, which are created because of the European path that has been sought today, some of my fellow MPs, who are also unaware that there is only one breakthrough on this European road and that Serbia is only one step away from this break-in, and the SRS is constantly warning about this. I felt ugly because I understand that you as an institution are created forms for the sake of those who created you actually don't want you to work, and we in the SRS expect you to work the right way. How is it possible in Belgrade, where the former villa is the Federal Assembly and the Federal Institution, so the Republic Assembly and the Republic Institution, there is no room and place for two such important state institutions? That's absolutely inexplicable. We have dozens of other agencies doing some transferred jobs that, from our party's point of view, are absolutely unnecessary. There's room for them, and there's no space for two important institutions like this. Why, gentlemen? Because the ruling furniture doesn't want you to work. In fact, they want you to work formally, to exist, to make some reports, to have us here in the Assembly adopt them. I feel ugly as a National MP, because I keep saying that this Assembly doesn't have its place as the largest legislative body, because you're not responsible to anyone else, but to the Assembly, and it couldn't fight for your better status. Otherwise, I always say that the Assembly is just a transfer of the government's will, unfortunately. In Serbia, it will be better when the circumstances change. What can we do? There was nothing we could do for space. As far as the budget is concerned, we are for you to have such a budget that you can do your job. We'll always stand for it. I may have focused a little more on the Anti-Corruption Agency's report, and I'm just going to read one of the points of view in Article 2. The law: "Corruption, this is a relationship based on abuse of official, or social position and influence in the public or private sector, in order to gain personal benefit or benefit for another". As officials of the opposition, no matter what our colleagues say, we are not afraid of this word: "corruption", because as an opposition, it almost doesn't touch us. Another problem I have seen reading this report, this Assembly adopted the Strategy in 2005, the Action Plan, and the institution that oversees it began to work in 2010. When I looked at these 168 recommendations, there's a lot that's already gone, which should be thrown out. That strategy might have to be much shorter, and then your report would be much shorter because, you have to admit, 463 pages, that, with all the other obligations, is still too much. Of the 168 recommendations, you oversee how they are implemented and you have written that 25, partly 99, are not fulfilled, 24, permanent task or obligations that last – 15, and no data for five. Gentlemen, this fact alone speaks enough of our condition in these areas. You also said that 15% of the recommendations were fully met, 14 not met at all, 59 in part. Then, regarding the concreteisation of the recommendations through 473 activities of the Action Plan, where you also said that 97 activities, partly 128, were not realised 99 activities, 73 activities were continuously carried out, and there are no data on the implementation of 76 activities. Obviously something's not working here, someone's not doing their job. In this country, the problem is to force state authorities, including the ministries and ministers, to do their jobs. What's special to me tonight, in the late hours, I think it's absolutely realistic and true, as you estimated, in fact you transferred it from some other agencies, Serbia's rating according to a report on Serbia's global competitiveness, where Serbia is in 96th of 139th place. This is an assessment of the entire state administration and all the ministries, especially worrying, of these parameters that you have listed, which are important for foreign investors, since there are a lot of talk here about some foreign investment. It says – property rights at 122nd place is 139th place, a burden of state regulation, that's where we participate, 131st out of 139th place, the efficiency of the judicial system in resolving administrative disputes 132. of 139nd place, the effectiveness of the anti-monopol policy, there are you and here you must be 137th out of 139th place, the co-operation of workers and employers in 135th of 139th of 139th place. I think it was morning classes, I look at the diary and our prime minister shows up and says -- Serbia survives the crisis, we preserve our economy, our banking system, while it's a wasteland in the surrounding countries. That was this morning, and those surrounding countries, they are all EU members. This is the road you want to take to Serbia. Next: GDP growth 3.5% and export growth 25%. I don't know if I and Serbian citizens live in the same country with the prime minister, only a few days earlier you could see what was being exported from Serbia. It says – in the first place steel sheet, steel products. It's U.S. Steel, what does Serbia have of these exports? In other places, it's made of rubber. It's a Tiger, it's a Trajal, it's a Ruma Tigger, it's all sold. It's not Serbian exports. Third place, colored metals. Serbia and its brand is a Smedervac stove still in Vranje some stove factory, and I think I've read both "sirkov" and "Brez's" broom. Where did we come from in Serbia? Why am I saying that those who insisted on creating these two regulatory bodies because of the European pathway don't want you to work? If you were just dealing with MPs, some lower officials, that would be even more acceptable, but as long as we're talking disabled people from "DES" here are either here in front of the Ministry or in front of the City Assembly, but they're disabled. We are full of people with disabilities and special needs, and no one will solve the problem of the company that has 52% in its staff. Now let me tell you, I'll tell you the name of the company, I can tell you a dozen names, say, "Kongrap," 15 thousand workers, there are a couple of hundred, I got a memo where several workers died of maltene from hunger, and some because they can't be treated. Only Kongrap Makish, 107 earnings are owed to the workers. Are you going to do something about it? No, you can't, because high-ranking officials from two states are involved in privatizing this firm. If I told you the names now, you'd freeze and there'd be no real corruption. One of my colleagues said: "The little thieves have their heads, and the great thieves have their hats removed." This is what is present here in Serbia. So absolutely count on the support of the SRS if you dare to fight corruption, because corruption has three levels. The one lower, that's the hand, the pocket, the doctor, the professor, that's something low, and the police are fighting it, and they can fight it. Medium level, there are already enterprises, larger amounts etc. But the main corruption against which you can't do anything, it's politics-related corruption, with ruling circles, not with the opposition. You didn't make this strategy, but something that's very ugly, when you look at Recommendations 34, 91 and 86, because it's according to this information scheme, it's about the necessary means. That'd be all right, but why? This is the case with some training of judicial officials, public service authority officials, the first said that some 450,000 euros should be required, in the second, that 300,000 euros should be required, and in the third, 50,000 euros should be required. Gentlemen, we live in the state of Serbia. Corruption, one of the sources of corruption, is our relationship to our dinar as a means of payment. I'm saying again -- you didn't write this, but you can't let that happen next to our dinar, who we have to defend, protect, and in every place we mention, it's a means of payment in Serbia. In our official acts, we express our needs in the euro. You'll admit it's inadmissible when it comes to state authorities. When I read these recommendations, let me say that we from the SRS offer help. Recommendations 88, 94, 98 and 114. This is about connecting tax administration information systems, public payments administrations, customs administrations, the Republic Fund PIO, the MUP into a single system of state authorities. There was a deadline in 2007. There's no forward without it. But so you don't buy some systems, "Bam", "Navison", "Oracles", etc., in Serbia we have enough brains. We from the SRS are offering an integrated information system for which the professors, the doctors who made it, say they will give more to Serbia's budget every year, the one billion that you always lack. That's what science did. Corruption is not Serbia's first problem. Maybe he's only in third place. Serbia's first problem is ignorance. Absolutely the first problem. Crime and corruption only come later. Why not, this programme was offered to the Serbian government and we from the SRS say – when we come to power, the integrated information system will certainly be introduced into the state administration, public enterprises, into all other companies, especially in the Tax Administration. Why? Because every dinar can be monitored, and today's government doesn't answer to be able to track every dinar, because this program that those who made it say is the most perfect in the world, right on the day, can show you about every company when it enters the gray zone, which they can't pay the VAT, and especially who won't pay the VAT. We have in our economic programme, which we have called "The Programme for Serbia's exit from the crisis" a solution for all other issues. But I offered that if you had the courage, and the former finance minister didn't have them, she would be presented with this integrated information system. If I tell you that I solve the main problem that you have in your budget every year, to provide the billion euro that is missing, please report to the Serbian mind, because it is fortunate in Serbia, we do something for Serbia, so someone tells me about Europe, we have done a lot for Europe by simply accepting the SAA, which costs this poor country 300m euros. (Chairman: Mr. Delicic, your time is up.) () It's not just 300 million euros, how many jobs did it cost us? Let me finish. (President: Approach the microphone, please. () Once again, we regret that you do not have the opportunity to do your job. If you want to do it the right way, we need Mr. Sretenovic to draw closer to the budget audit and budget spending, so that what we did not have when we adopt the budget, which is that the government turns out to us the way the money was spent, we have never seen the final bill in this assembly, that Mr. Sretenovic ensures that when we adopt the budget we have immediately and how it was previously spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57959	Thank you, Mr. Delic. Mr. Krasic, you have your word, another ten minutes as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57960	Well, Mr. Novakovic, let me continue what my colleagues have opened as a topic. In order to avoid confusion, I'm going to give some concrete examples, so anyone who deals with this topic professionally can classify it as a lower, medium or higher level of choice. Here's an example. Radovan Tomic, Higher Business School, Novi Sad, 17 criminal charges. Nothing's worked out by now. I don't know what's gonna happen. I am very pleased to expect reports from the auditors on the 2010 final account control, and particularly the separate reports for the individual ministries. I'm expecting a nice report from the Department of Defense. I expect an even better report for the ministry this here as it calls, this Mladjano, this which twice a day performs with whistles, cops and those who protest, etc. Anyway, let's get somewhere. You see, I don't mind being followed by the gifts of state officials and the cheese that Bozidar Djelic received, you know, but I get the impression that we're dealing with ducks, we're dealing with some junk, some remains, something that's completely irrelevant to what Paja Momchilov said is systemic corruption. If you were to read us these laws that are deliberately collapsible or laws in which holes are left on purpose that one who applies the law can interpret it according to his will, then you know that we can hardly get out of this situation. I would have to correct something that was heard earlier in this debate, only to find out, as a fact and express my position, Kasalovic - I don't believe it has anything to do with corruption; Dragan Stevanović - I'm sure it has nothing to do with corruption; Mirko Munjic - has nothing to do with corruption; Vladan Jeremic - has nothing to do with corruption; Paja Momciov - has nothing to do with corruption; Bozidar Delic - has nothing to do with corruption. I don't know why someone mentioned the participants in today's debate who got a big bite into some corruption? I couldn't find a connection between the Administrative Board and corruption, because immunity and corruption have nothing to do with it. I just have to remind you, except for that colloquial notion of corruption, we have two, one in the law, one in the strategy, and they stem essentially from the broken elements of the criminal act of abuse of official position. If we take that and we start chivin' it, then we'll get to everything and everything. I would remind you of the subject of Goran Knezevic. Maybe you heard. They say they found some big money in the safe belonging to his stranger. It hasn't been resolved yet, but he's found a safe house, he's changed the party, and now you can't attack him because he's supposed to be an opposition, and he's yours, from your heart, he's succeeded. So if I were to make jokes at your expense right now, it could go a long way. Indeed, the paper endures everything. Here, let's say, on page 46, what are integrity plans, etc. and all of this can be beautifully interpreted, but you can't solve the problem of a phenomenon, but those who are a little over the age of, they know it from chance, and you didn't include "Peru potter"? Let's make a little joke. Who's that, he says. Well, I don't know. He says, "Who's the one next to the Pere potter?" Well, it says-- it's the Pope. Well, who's the one next to the Pere Locker in the picture? It says - Tito. So Pera Locator is the main function. He's nowhere to be found, and he's an alpha and an omega of everything and he's far more famous, etc. He doesn't have that plan of his integrity, he's inconspicuous. Now if I were to quote who could be with the title "Pere Locator" I'd have to skip the tycoons, I have to tell you that, but let me mention those who hold the media sphere in the Republic of Serbia. I'm going back to the monopoly again. There's a natural state and there's this party that's been established. Today you can hardly buy a second of advertising without asking Tucko Bucko, Shaper, Krstic, Gilas and very skillfully concealing corruption affairs at the level of the city. You can see Gilas in the campaign, pictured in kindergartens, in schools, and now he's going to fight corruption, when he came from Brussels that he needs to settle something, and in this room here Mr Dragan Todorovic has been punished, his word was taken because he mentioned "News" and "Luku Belgrade". Everyone smiled, those in power—what are you talking about, what you're making up, it's a dirty opposition doing something. What happened? Both "News" and "Luka Belgrade" are the main topics of fighting corruption and proof of the heartiness of the pro-European government, Boris Tadic. We have to figure out what's true, how acceptable she is. Here someone jumps and says – in 2000 there was the most corruption. All right, let's accept that, too. Whoever did this, tell Dacic in the coalition. How about Dacic, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. What, in 2000, they were corrupters, and in 2008, pro-European people were defined. Don't, people, find your own system of values. I can't keep an eye on the SPS anymore. You attack them, and they keep quiet. You're silent because they love the NATO Pact and the EU now. They suffer, you spit on them and they say – we call on the SPS not to fall in love with coalition partners. They only fall in love for this. This glue is important. What are we talking about? Speak Serbian, so the whole people understand you. It's the most important thing. Now we have Hope, super initial results, epochal results. Look at the size of the paper here. Zoran Stojiljković – can and can be written for this, but he doesn't need what he wants. You've built an institution and you've cut it off. I told you at first – property, accumulated functions and something you have now inserted around these political parties. End of the day, the agency can't ask questions. You've put in a strategy now and I don't want to tell you what my assessment of all this is written. Someone who participates in corruption can advance in the state. Here's an example. In 2001, a state security officer, Angelkovic Dragisa, appeared in Bosilegrad and threatened all state officials that a tour had to go through, something petty, some smuggling, some nonsense, and then the chief of police or whatever it was called, some Miki Anastasov, progressed because of it, and especially his wife, Daniel Anastasov, who was suspended six times as a customs worker. And they're now, he's now the chief police controller in Nis for the whole district. So, he had to get practically into corruption, get experience and apply it, and now the cops are chasing at will. Here's your system form of corruption. Systemic form of corruption - family Simic. Unfortunately, they had an apartment in the same building where Simic, the vice governor, was. And when they go after this Simic, they come down to this Simic. And they have not yet compensated for the damage, and they have carried away doors and windows. You know, who are you fighting in the fight against corruption? You must fight Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic, the complete government, the main DS board and all parties in power. That's where it has to go and break up more with those EPP stories. I don't know. Go back to St. Sava, maybe we should go back to those stories of yours. But, guys, it's been 11 years. Well, you came to power because this was supposed to be bad. For the past 11 years, you don't have any epochal results. One. Find me one area, one sphere of good results. There isn't. A DRI report appeared and immediately went against the auditor and could not be commented. What does Mirko Cvetkovic say? "That's the problem with bookkeeping, booking," you know, just writing is the problem. The bookkeepers didn't know how to get this job done. If we treat ourselves like this, this institution and this must be guarded by MPs, not by the government. (President: I thank you, Mr. Krasic.) I'm sorry if I ruined your trip to Europe. (President: Yes. I didn't mess up the road to Europe, did I?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57961	The presidents or representatives of the 96 parliamentary groups have the right to use and report for the word, but I don't see them. I'm asking, do the promoters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here you go. All you have to do is sign in. The word is President Dri. Mr. Sretenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57962	During today's debate on the DRI report, the debaters asked questions I would like to give answers to. I must remind you that the DRI Act is a regulated issue, practically, five points, five segments, five key subjects, performing a review. First of all, these are the revision of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, audits and organisations of compulsory social security, the revision of the NBS in public funds, the corresponding number of public enterprises and the corresponding number of local self-governments. According to the information we have, over 1,100 public enterprises exist in Serbia as well as a large number of local self-governments. By establishing and selecting top auditors in individual DRI sectors, such as the financial reporting audit sector, i.e. final accounts of local authorities and financial reports of public enterprises, we have practically launched a review programme set up by the Council during and at the end of 2010. The programme provides for 42 beneficiaries of the budget. Of this, direct users in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which are seven ministries, two administrations and the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, then, the NBS financial report in the work on operations with budgetary resources and public funds, then, 16 public enterprises, 14 local authorities and one social insurance organisation. During 2011, audits of individual entities were launched. Some are already preparing and issuing draft reports. I must remind myself, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the procedures implemented by the DRI, there is primarily a draft report on the audit of financial reports carried out, on which users and audited entities have the right to make observations within 15 days. Following the resolution of these objections at the clearing meetings, the authorised public auditor shall submit a proposal and a report on the audit carried out. After that and after 15 days of time, a proposal for a report where users can make observations, the Council finally sets out a report on the audit carried out by the users. When selecting the beneficiaries of the budget, the choice itself is not based on a sample, but there are harmonised procedures based on which DRI, and by applying certain criteria, ends, or selecting the users to be the subject of the audit. Thus, the 2011 revision programme, by applying the criteria and the participation of total revenue and expenditure in the Republic of Serbia's budget, then, is the participation of total revenues and revenue in the republic's budget. One of the criteria is that we also took into account those ministries and direct users that were not covered by the 2008 final budget audit of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all of which amounted to more than three million in certain financial transactions. This is the approach we had when regulating the revision of local authorities and the revision of public enterprises. With what we had in mind for public enterprises, whether it was a loss or a gain business. As the largest amount in determining local authorities, budget levels are. Thus, the review started the Belgrade city budget, the province budget of Vojvodina, the Nis city budget, the New Sad city budget. During this year, the final account of Zaječac, Leskovci, Jagodina and other local authorities will be audited. During the debate, a question was also asked by participants – what is the amount covered and what is the amount related to the development of the DRI website? I must point out that it is in collaboration with the "YNDP", with which the DRI established co-operation and the framework of a project to strengthen the mechanism in finance, and that together with them we have managed to create the DRI site –www.dri.rs. in the amount of 144,825 dinars. In addition, a logo DRI was also made in collaboration with the YNDP. When it comes to the implementation of the DRI budget, the DRI must also be an example to all beneficiaries of the budget, how budget funds are spent. So we, looking at our personnel resources and our inability to take more personnel, saw that the DRI budget had extra resources. We reported it to the ministry and it was accepted through rebalancing. What was the issue of payment of the historical allowance, in classification and in the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, this classification exists in economic classification 417. It's an adjective. In our act, however, we made the payment of the historical allowance under the salaries of DRI employees. When it comes to the revision of public enterprises I would particularly point out that during and during the discussion there was a mention of JATI just these days we expect a draft report we have carried out a detailed review in accordance with the DRI procedures. Following the submission of the report to the beneficiaries of the budget, the DRI, in accordance with the law, left the deadline and allowed the beneficiaries of the appropriations to, within an appropriate period, not less than 30 days and longer than 90 days, and we gave the users 45 days, to address certain irregularities during the audit, which could not be corrected in the audit process itself. For certain beneficiaries of budgetary resources and responsible persons who have identified irregularities in the non-application of the Budgetary System Act, the Budgetary Accounting Regulation, the Labour Act, the Public Procurement Act, the DRI submitted a total of 32 infringements. During 2010, 19 infringements were filed, while revising the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. I can tell you that all DRI applications have been processed, that in the first part, according to the 2008 final account, four judicial and final convictions have been passed, three of which are acquittal and one of them is liberating. At the release of the DRI, it applied for the protection of the legality accepted by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, in the first degree, three solutions were also made to express and judicial measures, two of which are condemning and one is liberating. Also, the DRI's acquittal filed a complaint with the High Court of Infringement. During 2011, a total of 13 infringements were filed and we expect these reports to be processed in accordance with the work of the criminal court. I would just like to add that I would like to thank the MPs for today's constructive debate and support the work of the DRI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57963	We thank the DRI, too. The word may be given to the director of the agency, Mrs. Zorana Markovic, if he logs in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57964	Thank you. I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Assembly and thank all the MPs who took the floor today and participated in the debate on this agenda item on the annual report on the common agenda item for DRI, the Agency. For the fight against corruption just to say that our impression, it is my pleasure that the overall debate has contributed to all these joint findings that both the Justice and Administration Committee has established on the annual report on the Agency's work. However, I just want to look at a few things, because there were no direct questions in the discussion for the Agency, there were certain opinions that I think are very important and show actually where we are today and how much together we recognize the seriousness of the problem of corruption, the seriousness of the problems that we all have to deal with together. The expectations of the public in the fight against corruption begin here in parliament. The expectations of the public are therefore also formed here in parliament and it is our obligation, all of us who have our role in fighting corruption to properly inform the public and to properly form public expectations of what we individually and all together can do. In that sense, I think it is important that we send a very clear message today and from here to the public about what it is and where the limit of the possibility of the Anti-Corruption Agency working in that area. So we're not all-powerful and we're not an institution that can solve all problems. Today, there have been mentions of several important areas in which corruption is present or the perception of corruption is extremely high. Health has been mentioned, the issue of public procurement has been mentioned several times, the issue of integrity plans has been mentioned, the issue of implementation of the strategy has been mentioned. So, all of this in a certain way is an area that the Agency deals with, but it's not entirely our jurisdiction and our obligation. So today's debate also showed that without co-ordinated joint activities by all state authorities, there is no success and no results. So, it can't be a successful agency, if it's not a successful and strong judiciary, if it's not a successful and strong police and a prosecutor's office. It cannot be a strong Agency unless it is a strong Assembly, unless the ministries and executive powers are strong. Strong in the sense of fulfilling their obligations, therefore, responsible above all. I think it is very important that we get to know the public about our borders and that we do not expect the Agency to address issues of public procurement and to address issues of direct health problems, unless the primary authorities responsible for this, or the Agency, are able to be in those areas, individually, as successful as those institutions involved are. On several concrete examples that have been shown here, I have to say that the Agency has responded, so there is no silence but there are silences from those institutions that should have done something about which the Agency has not provided answers or those answers have not been satisfactory, to get us out and say, we have successfully solved something. Therefore, this coordination must have been one of the conclusions that the Agency has proposed on the Justice Committee, which are within the framework of these conclusions, which the Committee recommends is that the coordination action of all state authorities is extremely important and that there is an obligation for the national authorities to determine one person who will cooperate with the Agency. If we stick to general recommendations, no one accepts it, no one sees himself as a responsible person. If we are more concrete in the conclusions we make, in the demands we make before the executive power, we will have the result. Therefore, the Agency insists that state authorities commit themselves to determining the person who will cooperate with us and become more responsible in carrying out their duties. Our next annual work report this year will be much more accurate in the work. I'll just give you one detail from this year's work, now very fresh data. Under the Act of the Agency, according to those amended provisions, all government bodies which are bonds under the national strategy and action plan have an obligation to report quarterly to the Agency on what they have done under these documents. The obligation is sanctioned by a felony sentence. In the second quarter of this year, which expired on June 30th, the Agency received only seven reports, only seven. How many bounds does the strategy have? So expect that in the next two months, the Agency will file criminal charges, but that did not solve the problem, so we applied the sanctions but did not solve the problem. Our goal is to raise awareness of the importance of these documents and there's only one thing I want to point out. It may seem that the Agency is dealing with small things, whether a local official can or cannot perform certain tasks, whether his property has been reported or not, whether or not all the data are in that property, but Serbia is not a state with a democratic tradition. We need to take one more step than developed democratic countries, and therefore we need to deal much more with the integrity, integrity of public officials, the integrity of institutions, and we all need to develop these capacities together and develop values. Thus, all these issues fall within the integrity of the functionors and fall, consequently, into the integrity of the institution they are handling. Why is the issue of conflict of interest important from the aspect of an institution? Because as an individual, I don't want to work in an institution where my colleague, whose integrity he threatens by doing things that are in conflict with the law. When this issue is properly resolved, and the following reports by the Agency will show that it is feasible, and not only through integrity plans, but it is mostly through integrity plans, then we will no longer deal with this issue, or that this issue will not be a central issue, which will be addressed by the Agency. Then we're all on the right track. So to thank again for the very useful suggestions, the MPs who pointed out in their presentation that they had a number of examples in which the Agency did not act, and concerning the issue of conflict of interest, and the issue of transfer of management rights, and it appeared at one point in the discussion, therefore, that there are ministers and presidents of municipalities, mayors, secretaries in ministries, who have private firms, who participate in public procurement, we have so far sanctioned all cases, there are no ministers who have private firms participating in public procurement, and that the Agency has not been informed of this. If there is such knowledge, I invite you and invite the Members of the People to report it to the Agency, because then we conduct the procedure. So, we have two basiss on which we conduct proceedings in the event of a violation of the law, it's according to official duty both by application and by representation. I hope that the support that has been presented today will be retained in the next period, it represents an extremely large aid in our work, our capacities are limited, but we've only been working for a year, we've fought for our space, but we're not limited, we'll move to new rooms by the end of the year. I think that'll make it possible for us to fill in our capacities. So, it's done parallelly, there's nothing offered on the tray, but I think we can all come up with successful results together, and I'm on behalf of my colleagues and on behalf of the Anti-Corruption Agency thanks for today's commitment to this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57965	I thank all the participants in one good and smart atmosphere today who has adorned this home and this discussion, which shows how we can agree and disagree, and that it is extraordinary. I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Annual report on the 2010 DRI work with a proposal for the closure of the Finance Committee and the Annual Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2010, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Administration. Having conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals of the committees responsible for considering these reports. On the basis of article 87, I'm setting a break, or I'm taking a break for an hour and we'll continue the afternoon section at 14.45. Have a nice lunch. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I apologize, this is the usual way of opening the afternoon work, which is now starting with a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Committee on Charters of Values, a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board and a proposal for a decision amending the Committee of the Republic of Serbia (points 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda). A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, allocated according to the struggle of MPs, and that: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia (G 17 plus and Together for Shumadija) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the SRS parliamentary group has authorized the agenda to be a member of the People's MP, Ms. Radet, according to the points of the agenda. Pursuant to Article 192, paragraphs 3 and 193, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Securities Committee, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance; Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the SRS; Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia (G 17 plus and Together for Shumadi). Does the proposing representative, MP Branko Ljiljak, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57967	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda to elect a president and four members of the Securities Commission. One of the most important items in Serbia's financial system is the market and stock exchanges and even securities. An important part of this is also members of the Securities Commission, which run this important area. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has a task, and this is in the Law on the National Assembly, as well as in the Rules of Procedure, as well as in the Law on Securities of Value, to elect and resolve members of this commission. The committee responsible, which is the Committee on Finance, is tasked with gathering candidates from all parliamentary groups, checking their accuracy, checking that all papers that are filed in order and proposing to the National Assembly at its session are members of this important and important institution. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the majority of the votes were accepted and the motion for a decision came at today's session, that is, the agenda of today's session. Now I would say who the candidates for president and candidates for members of this respected institution are. Dr Zoran Cirovic is proposed for the president of the Securities Commission. By the way, I forgot to say that candidates are proposed for a five-year term. For the president, Dr Zoran Ćirović was proposed, and Dr Dragutin Radosavljević, Milko Šimac, Dusan Bajec and Mr Zorica Krnjević-Miskovic are proposed for the members. In the proposal for this decision, MPs received their biographies. I think they're extremely impressive. I wouldn't read about each other now. I think we could all get that and look at this material. I hope that these candidates will be elected by most members, or MPs. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57968	Thank you, Mrs. Ljiljak. Meanwhile, the DSS parliamentary group authorised MP Zeljko Tomic to represent her. Does MP Susana Grubjesic, deputy president of the United Regions of Serbia (G 17 plus and ULS), want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the MP, the Prophet of Radeta, representative of the SRS parliamentary group, want a word? Yeah. The word has Mrs. Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57969	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has been trying for nearly three years to convince the ruling regime's representatives that the SRS was the most brutally stolen by stealing our mandates that we won in the previous 11 May 2008 parliamentary elections. You then, to remind, above all, the public of Serbia, allowed some parliamentary group of members of the SRS to be formed, who are still being led as such today on the National Assembly site, and under the company of some progressive party who did not go to the elections at all at the time these elections were held, or did not exist as a party. Why this introduction when this point is on the agenda? Because the SRS in all committees and in all working bodies of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged by the number of seats won in previous parliamentary elections. We tried both through the board and here at plenary sessions, whenever there was an opportunity we tried to resolve that question, but there was no will by the ruling majority. When we saw in the agenda the LDP proposal, which was accepted, that Vesna Pesic, a colleague who is no longer a member of the LDP, resolved the function in some committees of the Assembly, instead of setting someone from the LDP, which is absolutely legitimate, which is in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure, etc., we applied for the Fifth Extraordinary Session to choose indeed members of the SRS instead of Jovan Damjanović, who was once a member of the SRS and as such proposed in two committees, the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Reduction of Poverty. For reasons unknown to us, you did not put it on the agenda, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it was possible, regardless of the extraordinary session. The logical conclusion is that you avoided it because it is right at the vote of the 5th extraordinary session 126th was right by Jovan Damjanovic. It probably wasn't time to touch him. On the other hand, when you accepted the LDP proposal to change Vesna Pesic, several days after that, when on the Administrative Committee, instead of representatives of the SPS, the quorum and the vote for the ruling of the Administrative Committee on the Elimination of Immunities of the SRS, apparently tended to be voted by LDP representatives. So, you do everything by the principle of trade, agreements, you don't care about principles, you don't care about the Rules of Procedure, you don't care about the law, the Constitution, etc. Finally, you put this proposal on the agenda of the SRS parliamentary group. We will also discuss these concrete proposals and the work of these committees, as far as possible within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, but we hope that the parliamentary majority in the voting day, as well as the proposals of all parties in relation to the resolution and appointment of people to certain committees or other working bodies, will respect the will of the SRS parliamentary groups and will finally correct only one of the injustices that our MP group and our party have done almost three years ago, I repeat, in part between Tomislav Nikolic, Vukic, Boris Tadic and US ambassadors, perhaps the German and British embasssies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57970	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Tomic Zeljko, so Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57971	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently this should be a mere form, to do something that has long been prepared and where everything should be all right. In addition to this, the incredible absence of nearly all MPs of the ruling coalition, honors the exceptions that can be counted on the fingers of one hand. Mrs Ljiljak is an authorised representative, so I would like to know how she will answer at least one strict and concrete question. Let's take it in a row. Article 230. The law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments is identical with Article 246. The capital market law. I will quote him: "For the president and the members of the commission, he may be a elected citizen of the Republic who has a general working capacity, has a high professional capacity and at least five years of work experience gained in performing business in relation to securities of value in the Republic or abroad." I am responsible for saying this more because of the public, that, apart from Mr. Bajec and Mr. Stimec, the other candidates do not meet this condition. I will be more than specific and read Dr Dragutin Radosavljevic's biography. Working biography: traineeship at the Municipality Court in Kragujevac since 1995-1997; property and legal affairs in the JP "Odred for Urbanism and Construction of the City of Kragujevac"; director of the Kragujevac construction land foundation. I'm just asking you to pay attention if I'm wrong, you have to tell me where the securities are. He is again working on property legal affairs in JP "The Directorate for Urbanism and Construction of the City of Kragujevac"; State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and today Director of the Tax Administration – the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. I will also ask the authorised representative, but also the public of Serbia, whether those laws are directly violated, where it is decidedly said that it takes at least five years of work experience gained in the performance of the securities business. Please don't accidentally let anyone tell me that the District Court in Kragujevac, property and legal affairs or the secretary of state in a particular ministry is related to this. The basic condition that has been regulated in two laws is not met. On the other hand, we have Mr Milk Stimec and Mr Dusan Bajec, who have worked for seven years in the Securities Commission and therefore meet the requirements. I can't object to giving those for whom it's decoded in the biography that it's not the case. Article 257(7) of the same law stipulates how and how many years the Commission is elected. I will also quote this: "In the course of the election of the president and the members of the Commission, within the meaning of Article 5 and Article 6, the president is elected for five years, one member on four, one on three, one on two and one on one year." I must insist that members, in the event that they meet the conditions of choice, and not meet, which I have decoded and proved, are chosen in a described manner, and the choice of all members in five years, if we respect this, is also the direct and harshest violation of the law. I ask everyone in charge to reconsider this, because if this is adopted, Serbia cannot say for itself that it respects the laws it has written itself. This biography, and I've only read one, so I don't spread the story and bother both you and the public, with two other biographys, but securities are one thing, and being a secretary of state or working in a public firm in Kragujevac or in court is a whole other thing. You can see elementally and Decided that there are no conditions for this commission. You vote it in the voting day, but it'll stay stained and we'll mention, this is one, maybe it's not a small example, who knows what's right behind the hill. I have a right to doubt on the basis of everything said why this is done like this. It's not the Securities Commission. It's nothing small. It's nothing small. Since we have seen certain irregularities, the DSS will continue to insist on solving this problem, which is why this is happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57972	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mrs Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57973	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the basic question that should be asked at the outset is – which European clerk did it occur to you to order you to do a job in an emergency session that you had an obligation to do two years ago? What's this about? Mrs. Branka Ljiljak, as an authorised representative of the board of directors, said that the capital and charter market is of great importance, as you normally like to say, for society, and that no one questions. It is indisputable, but then we ask you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, how could we function as a society, as a state, when we haven't actually had a Committee of Charters of Values in over two years? It has never been resolved by the Committee on Papers from the value of which the mandate expired two years ago, nor is it now, as we can see, being resolved. How is it possible for you to go too quietly over it, not to solve anyone, name other people, and in the meantime, those you don't now do, who must have extended their mandate, we have no idea how it happened, that one body that, as Mrs. Ljiljak said and with what we agree, the body of extreme importance, how is it possible that this body never occurred to anyone to introduce it into the legal procedure for more than two years? In your explanation, you inform us that the member of the 249th Law provides for the competent working body, which is the Committee for the Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the termination of office, i.e. the resolution of the president and the member of the commission by launching the procedure before the National Assembly within 60 days. The question to which we are looking for an answer, indeed, is the least we can expect to really get an answer from the representatives of the committee responsible, when did this committee determine the fulfilment of the conditions for termination of office, namely the resolution of the president and members of the Securities Committee? It's never, of course. We are today discussing this in an emergency procedure and in a completely reverse order, we are not solving anyone, but a new commission is being appointed, of course, with a number of old people, or those who are already doing it, but in an explanation you have not dared to comply with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure explain why this is a matter of urgency. The Rules of Procedure make it clear - a law can be passed by an urgent procedure that regulates issues and relations arises under circumstances that could not be foreseen. You, therefore, for two years when the law says, of course, that you are referring to decisions analoguely, you could not predict that someone's term of office has expired, and the adoption of an emergency procedure, our Rules of Procedure, in this case, could have caused adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations, this certainly refers to the work of bodies and organisations, as well as to the fulfilment of international obligations and compliance with EU rules, which, of course, does not interest us, but obviously, that was precisely the reason for you. The question, too, to which we expect an answer from the committee's competent representative, what consequences have arisen, did they come and who is responsible for the consequences, and the congregation's majority has not done their job? If there were no consequences for two years, then that means we don't need this today and we don't need the Securities Commission at all. Your answer will depend on the position of the congregation majority. A little bit on the Securities Commission. I remind the public of Serbia, above all, that this commission was very current at the time of the privatisation of "Knjiz Miloša". If you remember, and the citizens of Serbia should remember, then the assembly in that previous meeting formed a polling committee. On behalf of the SRS, I was on the committee of inquiry. We then examined the legality of privatization "Knjiz Miloša", i.e. taking action from small shareholders. We were looking into it then and trying to trick small shareholders, sell their shares under the grain at a much cheaper price than the one that was later achieved. Unfortunately, it was not like many survey committees, and since the work of the survey board, there was nothing because it was never put on parliament's agenda, and this was also the responsibility of Parliament's president in the current and current Rules of Procedure. I recall that back then, and now Mr. Milko Stimac was the president of the Securities Commission and as a member of the G17 Plus party, his party chief and Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, at the time, openly tried to influence Mr. Milko Stimec's decision, when it came to taking over the actions of small shareholders "Knjiz Milosa" by "Apurna". The government of Divac and Danilovic and the Central Register and the Stock Exchange and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister for Economy and Privatisation Predrag Bubalo were also linked to this. The intention was that at that time, people said, small shareholders were fed up, and apparently this was, and I'm now saying on the basis of the survey board's work that Miroljub Labus had some kind of deal with "Apurna". I remind you, if you have forgotten, that he did not come to work in the Serbian government during those days, because he allegedly had a legache, but therefore he met with representatives of "Apurne" in his apartment and tried to make this deal and to deceive small shareholders, mostly citizens of the city of Arangelovac and the surrounding area, not only the Arangelovite, but mostly the Arangelian and the surrounding. Then Mr. Milko Stimac tried to follow the law, to reveal what was behind that attempt to trick small shareholders, and the man told the survey board that Labus had yelled at him, that he had to listen. If you remember, too, a man gets sick. Ended up at the Emergency Center. Thank God, it all worked out well in health, but it almost cost a man's life that then the government and then the government wanted to trick small shareholders and take money instead of people who really deserved it and should have taken it. At the same time, a member of this securities commission was also a member of the DS, a member of the city council, Dusan Bajec, and then said he couldn't handle so much crime and that it was obvious that he was so breaking the law and he said he was resigning. Nor did his resignation be established, nor did he continue, nor did Mr. Stimac, with it then, seem to me, sincere intentions to fight for legality, to fight corruption and crime. It is obvious that the positions of party chiefs and party chiefs have been overcome, since neither of them resigned, neither of them have been resolved but, on the contrary, here, signed one and the other that they are still ready to work in the Securities Committee, however, is not Stimac anymore as president, because he will now be replaced by Zoran Cirovic, who spent most of his working life in the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, this reminds me a lot of your "trange-frange" transfer now, reminds me of Mirko Cvetkovic, his beginnings at the Privatisation Agency, before that in "Deloitte&Touch", so when they finished all these dirty privatisations, a man reached the Prime Minister. We expect and hope that what your European bosses have given you will indeed, among other things, be reviewed and privatised, say, "Sartida", where "Deloitte&Touch" was directly involved, Vlahović, Cvetkovic, etc., so that finally this people will know the real truth about it. That is how this reminds me, Cirovic, who went through this ministry, however, has some interesting features in his work résumé. He started in the Belgrade Stock Exchange as a broker, then at the Faculty of Management of BK University, and worked at Karic Bank, and he was executive director at Karic Bank, then at BK University, etc. And then somehow directly from Karic to the state authorities, to the ministries. Well, good. This Mr. Zoran Cirovic boasts to us here in his biography of all that he did. He was also at many international courses and programmes, which is very important, of course, if we are joking, and he was at a seminar on health funding organised by the Regional Office for Europe of the World Health Organization, and then he was in Ljubljana, Slovenia and again at a seminar on the subject, public debt management strategies, etc. Why are we bringing this up? Because it is very characteristic that wherever you send some representatives to these European organisations, when they must return there they get such instructions that this part of society starts to fall apart. This is also one of the proofs of the SRS's position, that Serbia must stay away from the EU, that Serbia must stop meeting EU conditions and, of course, stop this path without returning and turn to ourselves and that countries that will not interfere with our internal affairs and internal affairs, which will, in any case, help you, which are, above all, our friends from the Russian Federation. When it comes to these decisions to amend members of the National Assembly Committee, we have a proposal from party G 17 plus and a proposal from the SRS. The proposal of partyG 17 plus is for co-worker Elizabeth Paunovic to be replaced by Gordan Rajkov in the Committee on Poverty Reduction, while the SRS proposal is to replace Deputy Mirko Munjic in the Committee on Poverty Reduction. Of course, as far as party G 17 plus is concerned, we don't have any comment or we think we have the right to interfere with that party, or any other party that has legal MPs in parliament. It is certainly their right, such as our right, the right of the SRS to propose amendments to this decision. What we expect is that finally this poverty reduction committee will start to deal with the problem of poverty in Serbia, so if nothing else, to initiate some session of the People's Assembly where we could talk about this problem in Serbia, where we could also hear representatives of the ruling coalition and representatives of the Assembly and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to see that it will explain to us millions of unemployed in Serbia, 700 000 people in Serbia who are below the existential level, 300 000 children without a third meal, so this committee is really very important, very important, but here we hope that a colleague of Gordana Rajkov and Mirko Munjic will make a contribution, when they are elected today or already a day for voting, that on the basis of today's discussions, they will initiate solving some problems. Of course, the Assembly cannot resolve this because it is the executive authority, but certainly the Assembly can initiate a lot of things, such as, say, the SRS recently proposed a family law with more children, but unfortunately the law did not come to parliament's agenda. We proposed a VAT reduction law for some categories, but unfortunately that didn't come on the agenda either. So this is only about what is the interest of the non-government majority, not of the RS government, but of some third-rate EU officials. It is truly devastating for this parliament, the state of Serbia, to have recently passed laws and decisions in parliament that the ruling regime receives as an EU order. The next committee, where we propose that instead of Jovan Damjanovic, who otherwise serves as the 126th ruling majority every time they miss him, be our colleague Dragan Stevanovic, who has repeatedly asked parliamentary questions here, and whenever there was an opportunity he talked about the problems that are evident about international problems in Bujanovac and Presevo, about the position of Serbs in these two municipalities in Serbia and about the relationship between the Cypriot institutions in here two municipalities towards Serbs living in Bujanovac and Presevo. Also, at a time when Mr. Stevanovic was president of SO Surdulica and when the SRS exercised power there, then the Roma Council was formed in Surdulica in the Bulgarian minority. At the local level of the International Relations Council, then, too, much has been done for these national minorities on the territory of the Bujanovac municipality. At the same time, a editorial was also formed on local radio both in Roma and Bulgarian, due to the existence of a national minority there. And, imagine, by coming to power by the Democrats after 2008, all of these rights, which the SRS established on the territory of the Bujanovac municipality, were abolished overnight. Also, Mr. Stevanovic, our colleague who we propose to this committee, spoke here about a major problem that is happening in the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad and related to the extreme functioning of some cultural information centre, which is influenced by Ataka, this extreme party in Bulgaria, which is trying to cross the borders of Bosilegrad and some other parts of Serbia, and see them as parts of so-called "Stealgrad" in some of its public statements. Western Bulgarian provinces. So what we're talking about is that we're very, here I'm finishing up, that we've really taken care of who we're proposing on these committees and that we believe that the majority of the congregation will finally, at least in this part, correct the injustice that you've done to us for three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57974	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. Four MPs have been reported on the application for the word. According to the order I will read, these are the MPs Mr. Mirko Munjic, Mr. Momir Markovic, Mr. Milorad Buha and Mr. Zoran Krasic. The word has the first on that list, Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57975	Thank you. So, in time, the Securities Commission was conceived as one key institution, as you said at the time, to preserve the credibility of the financial market. It was supposed to be an independent and independent institution. Why on your own? Because it would have the right, within its jurisdiction, to decide which actions it would take, when it would take those actions, by which it would take. So she would have one complete independence in work and would be independent, as planned, and that independence simply means one absolute independence from everyone, especially from the executive authorities. However, the question arises, is that really so? Is the Securities Commission really an independent and independent institution? Unfortunately, it's not. It's only in the domain of theory. The reality, as far as the Securities Commission is concerned, is completely different and this as well as other commissions, including committees, agencies, advices, etc. They are neither independent nor independent. They are all dependent on this and this kind of government of Serbia, which is self-dependent, and it plays as others play it. Why are all these agencies, commissions, etc., formed in Serbia, and in the end, why is this government doing so? Why are they acting like that? I will remind you and the citizens of Serbia, that in 2005 at the time, the Securities Commission warned of the possible money laundering in the purchase of the "Palic" tourist-hotel company, which it had a lot of indications that it belonged to Darko Saric. Or, after a conversation we had just heard, and I will do it again, in the Serbian government, and that conversation allegedly referred to the sale of "Knjiza Miloša". It has been announced that the then chairman of the Securities Commission ended up at the Emergency Centre. What's been going on, it's not even clear today. It's just a coincidence. I guess a lot of people know that. I ask the question – what about dozens of those questions that the SRS has asked, and it concerns the mafia privatisations of "Luke Belgrade", "News", the Usce Market Centre, etc., dozens and dozens of privatisations made in an extremely brutal mafia way? To remind you, they have had a severe impact on the collapse of the financial market's credibility. Let us remember, as you yourself stated, that the Commission's priority for securities is to preserve the credibility of the financial market. I will also remind you of a statement by a minister, who said in time – it is necessary at this point that the Securities Commission should be as close to the Government as possible. Then where is her independence and independence? After this, if someone thought that even after today's debate, and after the election of these members and president of the Securities Commission, something would change, they're wrong. After such a statement that it is necessary for the Committee on Papers to get as close as possible to the Government as possible, simply, and if there was any of the independence and independence of that Commission, it is no longer available. Finally, it puts a noose around the door of the Securities Commission and, therefore, of its independence and its independence, there is nothing. What happens when you select members and this president of the Securities Commission? In order not to happen to think that the Commission has independence and independence in this work, from the original competences that the Securities Commission had under the old law, these powers are now entrusted by the Government. And that shows us and points to the contribution of that fact, that the independence and independence of this commission has nothing to do with it. Finally, any idea that the Securities Commission can be independent and independent in its work has been choked. I'll remind you of just one more thing about the Securities Committee, if you remember, when Dejan Malinić resigned from membership at the Securities Committee, he gave a very interesting notice and an explanation that can serve you as an example of what I said. He says -- out of deep disagreement regarding the continued functioning of the institution, and that the independence and independence of the Commission from the political influences and influences of different participants in the capital market cannot be ensured by the domination of political and private interests in the process. That's why this is today, and that choice when you make it, it really doesn't have any practical significance. That is why you will be members of the Commission, and all of you will do it nicely, but in fact nothing will change there. When it comes to committees, I have to say what has been repeated here several times by representatives of the SRS, which is that the position of the SRS in the matter of committees and when it comes to the election of committee members, individual board members, etc., is a principled nature. You all know that very well. This is not an attitude that has been profiled only in this meeting of the Serbian Parliament, which is one attitude that the SRS has really been bearing since the beginning of parliamentary life and multilateral life in Serbia. So, what does he mean? Each party entitled to a number of Committee members shall have a legitimate right to propose to that committee, etc., its candidate at its discretion, and we shall never, nor interfere in such a proposal. I said it's our principled attitude that we stick to all this time and attitude, I'm sure we'll never change. But what we will always do and what also makes us consistent and great fighters to respect the principles of democracy and parliamentaryism, that is what we will always do. And what's that? It's our fight against the policy of double arches, against the policy of double standards that is so common, not only in this assembly, but it's been present all these previous years since 2000 and here. However, the SRS is sure I'm ready to fight this consistently, whether it's her or some other party, when it comes to what I'm talking about. So we will always fight for the consistent implementation of these principles. I say, we'll fight when it's damaged and some other party, though unfortunately, I have the impression that such a struggle will not be much, as it has never been before, because it seems to me that most of the time we, the Serbian radicals in all these things related to the selection of members of individual committees. The most violations of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, as well as these good customs, are when it comes to the SRS, when its representatives are in this House. Most importantly, it's done in one continuity. However, as we fought hard and sometimes when certain members of the Administrative Board were helicoptered in pajamas to remove immunity from our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, so we fought afterwards and when it was stealing parliamentary mandates, so we fight today when it comes to this request, this proposal that is on the agenda, so a proposal for the appointment of members of individual committees, to what belongs to us. We're raising our voice today, too, and we're only looking for what belongs to us, no less, no more than that. It's just that much. We ask that you positively resolve our request when it comes to members of the committee for which we have submitted the proposal. I think it's the elemental postulate of democracy, that it's the elemental postulate of parliamentary life, which, by the way, you call yourself here in this house. I'll just say a few more words about this poverty reduction committee in which I've been proposed. This, as well as other committees that our Rules of Procedure know, in his work, unfortunately, is bound in some way by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. But not only is it related to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but it is in fact very often neglected by this change in walking, the change in the walking of certain provisions, in order to make something better. Why do I say that? What used to be maybe good and enough, now it's become maybe a dead letter on paper and it needs to be changed. The information you've provided for this committee is obviously insufficient now, but insufficient only on one condition. The condition is that you really want to eradicate poverty. Note, this is about the Committee on Poverty Reduction, but one question is: is poverty reduction your strategic goal, and what is it that you today prove that you want to eradicate poverty or at least to bring it down to some decent measure? Do you think it's enough for Boris Tadic to show up and say that in this country, a lot of unseemly rich people have grown and that it's all settled. Instead of saying, in this country, a lot of thieves, a lot of criminals who are on the back of this people and we're going to arrest, we're going to take away what they stole from the people and give back to the citizens what is theirs. It would be a positive signal by the state's representatives, it would be a signal that you're really ready to fight and root out poverty, to fight corruption like this, and all those monsters that are really pushing this country, that there's really nowhere else to go. But the fact is, you're going the other way. You've decided on some other kind of game, you're in some kind of chain circuit. This reminds me of that box with the devil, and it really doesn't look like you're getting out of that wagon. But citizens need to know something else when it comes to this. The citizens need to know, of course not you, I'm not talking to you because internationals don't admit this, that God never directly punishes you. He only lets evil men reap what they sow with the devil. Unfortunately, after this, the collateral damage is quite large, and that the collateral damage most affected by the very citizens of Serbia who are the poorest, that's another thing already. But I hope that in the next election, the citizens will really know that they recognize all this and that they will not make the mistakes they've made so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57976	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to realize that among the ruling majority MPs, absolute gender equality has been achieved by three representatives of the less-represented sex, two representatives of the more-represented sex and you, Mr. Novakovic. That's 50-50. Here, right now Mrs. Gorica Mojovic is ruining that balance. The choice of this Securities Commission is impossible, today impossible, with this proposal impossible, because at least two members of the Capital Market Act are being violated. Member of the 46th says – for the president and members of the commission may be a elected citizen of the Republic who has a general working capacity, has a VSS and at least five years of work experience gained in performing business in relation to securities of value in the Republic and abroad. When we look at the biographies of these people, we will find that only two members, two candidates for members, Milko Štimac and Dusan Bajec have this condition met. The president and two commission members were never involved in business, with securities of value. So, you directly violate a member of the law, a law to remind you of what you have brought and who you have heartily defended before this Parliament as one of the most needed laws, so that you finally care about the end of doing so in this large, economic, financial area called the Charter of Values. The second member you are violating is Article 297 who directly prescribes how members, presidents and members of the Securities Commission are elected. He says – a commission that performs affairs in accordance with the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, the "Official Messenger" and that, since 2006, etc., the last position in this article – in the first election of the president and members of the commission in terms of the 5th position of this member, the president is elected to five, one member per four years, one member per three years, one member per two years and one member per year. So here it has tried to change the membership of the Securities Commission in continuity and to avoid the possibility of any abuses. One member of the Securities Commission would be elected each year. One member of the Securities Commission would be elected each year. Since two years have expired and the president elected for five years, you would have logically been that the proposal at least was such that it was chosen as the first time it was elected, to be president for five years, one member on three, one on four, one on three, one on two, one on one. Then you would achieve that continuity and then you would honor Article 297 of the law. In this new proposal, however, you do not even suggest it, but says so – all members are elected every five years. That means, gentlemen, that you're breaking the laws you've passed in the most brutal way possible. Let's go to the biographies of these people you suggested. Here's Zoran Cirovic. You look at the radio, studied at the Faculty of Economics, mastered, doctored etc., that's fine. Next working résumé – Ministry of Finance and that is fine, of course I have nothing against it, Faculty of Economics and Finance and Administration of Syngidum University. If it was that university that was a prominent citizen of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Cume, as some called it, so something didn't settle, they didn't agree on the price, did they, or did he realize that he was intellectually outgrown the University of Singapore, so he doesn't need it anymore. This gentleman is a good salesman, he probably saw what they do in Kragujevac, what they did in Kragujevac at the Faculty of Law, so who says the state university can sell diplomas, exams, so it was 200 to 300 euros a exam, if the exam is a little harder then it goes up to 500 euros, 15,000 euros a diploma and a man saw the opportunity for a great business. When he realized that this is not exactly how it works, not because it's not traded and especially at those private colleges with diplomas and exams, but because there's a lot of crocodiles around and a small bar, so it wouldn't be a big profit to get out of there, Mr. Cirovic worked at the University of Syngidunum. The Syngidum that was supposed to be, that great ideas had come true, Mr. Chummet's business ideas, were in his hands today. Furthermore, Mr. Cirovic worked at Karic Bank, so that reminds me of a long time ago was Mr. Novakovic you and I remember that, we have quite a year, so we can remember Dafiment Bank, the pyramidal savings. Jugoscank Bank, pyramidal savings, Karic Bank, pyramidal savings. The victims and Dafina, you still keep this in prison, you don't even know what you're going to do with it, Jezimir Vasiljevic, but Karic did not miss the hair on his head. We move forward, the same biography, the same gentleman, the authorised representative of the Republic of Serbia in the Mixed Committee for the Distribution of Financial Activities and Passives of the former SFRY of Annex C to the Agreement on Sucession Issues in the period from January 2009. Great. What this gentleman, as an authorised representative of the Republic of Serbia in the Mixed Committee, has done to prevent us from getting the kind of miserable assets we are suggesting, or possibly already have been divided, or prepared for distribution, what he has done with the protection of assets in the former SFRY republics, so today countries in the environment or in the Western Balkans, as you like Europeans to say. So, what he did with more than 60 billion euros in the value of Serbian property, which is private, which is social, which is the state, which remains on the territory of Croatia alone, that we're not talking about BiH, that we're not talking about Macedonia, that we're not talking about Montenegro, that we're not talking about other countries, for example, about Slovenia. It would have been in the biography if you'd brought that in. A fierce struggle for the property of the citizens and the state he did it and that, that and that...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57978	Please, the Securities Committee, and not about the conflict, I understand your approach...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57979	Well, that's why I'm lighting up the character and the work of the man you've proposed to be president of the Securities Commission. And worst of all, he's never done anything related to securities of value and his choice is directly opposed to Article 246. The capital market law. Let's move on, Mr. Stimec was told by Mrs. Verica Radeta what she had to say and I absolutely support every letter she's said. It seems to me that there's Danone involved, I can't remember, and there's Knyaz Milos, but I know I was an MP the moment Mr. Stimac passed out when they were revealed that the Commission had found some dirty work there. I don't know. I haven't seen a man since. Let's move on, another one of those who did everything, just didn't do value paper work, dr. Dragutin Radosavljevic. Born in Kragujevac, married, if that too, acquired a medical, doctoral degree, if that too, etc. He was the Director of the Fund, he was a secretary, director of the Tax Administration, but there is no record of value, but he is a very interesting one in the biography, a solution by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a member of the Working Party to resolve property issues between JAT, JAT Technics, Nikola Tesla Airport and the Flight Control Agency. It's a shame we didn't bring these points together with the previous points, because the Anti-Corruption Agency gentlemen and the auditors would have something to hear, even if they did check and find a lot of corruption. I'm going to do one sentence, and then I'm going back to the subject, namely, of the flight control agency run by Nikola Stankov, who, by interest, was the husband of Biljana Stankov, who was head of the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic, only in 2005 to raise two loans. One is worth 30m 820m euros, raised on 9 February, and 31m280m euros on 10 June. The money was raised to modernize the technique. Sam Nikola said that 18m euros were spent, and the total credit the state gave the counter-guarantee, and paid it off, is 62m, so I would like to, and I think he listens to Mr. Sretenovic and Mrs. Markovic, so he'll probably do something about it. Where it's from 18m to 62m euros, for which this country has been robbed. I'm still talking about crime, about a barrage of crime called flight control, I don't want to talk about it. I ask you gentlemen, first of all, is it possible that none of those people who have worked in the Commission so far, around it, if not in it, have gained experience so as to suggest it, but you suggest people who have no contact with securities of value. On the other hand, how are you going to overcome this problem called Article 297th century 1,2,3,4,5 and 6, which says – in the first election of the president and the members of the Commission, in the sense of the 5th term, the president is elected for 5 years, one member for 4 years, one member for 3 years, one for 2 years and one for one year. You've all suggested that he be five years old. Is it possible that you missed this or have decided that everyone is now five years old and then directly broke the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57980	The word is Mr. Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57981	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, we have two proposals ahead of us. I'll try a few sentences to tell you both about each other. When we talk about the selection of the Securities Commission, we must say that the Government is not consistent, but it is not the first time that its inconsistency is shown. Yesterday we could see the government's decision to have all the directors choose to compete, and it was announced as if it were a new revolution, etc. No one has said, "Why have we not used it so far?" Why haven't we elected directors of public enterprises and state institutions to compete? If it were luck, we would have here today a proposal from the Finance Committee, which would have found that 30, 50, or maybe 300 demands were received, that is to say, requests from people who want to, who meet the conditions in professional and experienced terms, and in terms of school preparation and other general and special conditions for the establishment of a working relationship in this commission. Unfortunately, we don't have that. We have only one political agreement to choose in the commission people who respond to political colour, not by expertise, not by quality and not by willingness to deal with enormous problems in this area. This commission that's been working so far has done its job. She covered all the crime that started the moment the privatisation was accelerated on the orders of the West. Why is her term seven years? That's why it ends. We will pass a new law on the capital market and they will appeal to this law and then we will say – now we also have formal-legal conditions to choose a commission and thus satisfy the form. It's just a form of satisfaction, nothing more. We haven't really solved the problem. A fundamental problem is that in the field of securities of value, transport and privatisation related to securities of value we have had huge crime, huge problems and these problems will culminate in the future. Be assured that this is not a point on and, on the selection of this commission, privatisation will be discussed. The audit is necessary. The position of the SRS is that, regardless of what we formally completed privatisation, we today have 450 companies that are not privatised, no matter what, the declarative commitment of the authorities is made and leads to the end of the privatisation because it is not finished. When we talk about this commission, about the privatisation problems, we need to point out the enormous discrimination that the small shareholders had, their struggle to survive in this process itself. They filed dozens, hundreds, thousands of criminal charges, pointed to all state authorities for the problems they had, and unfortunately none of them were known to me, the procedure was brought to an end, no one in the criminal proceedings was found, no trial was initiated and those who committed abuses in the process. This is where "Prince Milos" is mentioned. There's been an apparent abuse. Who answered? Nobody. Here we must point to another characteristic example of poor privatisation, and this is about "The Port of Belgrade", of taking action from us known Milan Bek, who has made use of "Luke Belgrade". The Serbian Radical Party has almost dozens of times referred to abuse in this privatisation through parliamentary issues, taking action, and has asked the competent state authorities to decidate themselves with what funds Milan Beko purchased actions from, or "Luke Belgrade" actions? Did we get the answer? We didn't. We pointed to abuse of position, in this case, in the process of taking action itself. Have the investigative authorities completed the procedure? No, they're not. We pointed out the enormous damage suffered by the state and asked the state authorities to bring it all to an end, to find the culprits involved in all this, and this is to dozens of people who have been in various institutions that have decided on the value of the actions, on how to implement the privatisation. Unfortunately, it all fell into the water. For the sake of time, I'm going to point out another characteristic example of abuse here. Perhaps even the largest and least publicized abuse is an estimate of the value of the privatisation company. How did she come to be? It was created in such a way that the immovableity assessment agencies, which have been conducted and politically placed in a position to decide for themselves what value of the action in the company will be. So it was right by these actions, and we're going to mention some participants, owners of these actions, directors and managers in these agencies who have been assessing and pointing to a conflict of interest in which they have also been to abuse their place, position and position. It is one agency whose director and one of the owners was incumbent Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, the agency is Ces Mecon, which participated in a value assessment process of over 600m dinars, somewhere between eight and ninem euros. His agency, or agency where he was the manager, took part in estimates when he was the director of the Privatisation Agency, which is a conflict of interest. It's an apparent conflict of interest. Is any such assessment of the value invalidated? It's not. Is everything legally done? It's not. Who answered? Nobody. That's tragic. On one of the issues of Serbian radicals, which we have raised in the form of parliamentary issues to the competent state institutions, how much the total state paid for the assessment of the value in the privatisation process, which we did not include those companies that were in bankruptcy, which came out of bankruptcy, so they went into bankruptcy again, etc., but it is a naked list of only those companies that were bankrupt, which is worth about four million euros. if it is shown in euro values, it is somewhere around 60m euros, as it is the period from 2002, when privatisation rights start until 2008. For an estimate of 60m euros. We've had a situation, we've seen it through reports that we've received from the competent state authorities, it's hidden, it's hidden under paper, but there's still a lot of things in the paper that we can find, in those financial and other data that we could get. We've seen certain areas of work by certain agencies. Is that an accident? It's not an accident, it's targeted, it's arranged for certain agencies to carry out those evaluations. The abuse is the task of future authorities and I hope that the SRS will participate in the next government, to review everything that has been done criminally in the process since 2002, when rapid privatisation occurred. What else is important to emphasize? It is important to highlight the participation, place and position of the banking system. We handed the banking system over to foreign banks, foreign institutions and that capital, banking capital, it was appropriate to finance those activities of companies that came by to buy shares, take stock, buy capital and the assets of those institutions with which they had related ties. Do geographically, do financial etc. So these were tied circuits. After 2007, the banking system came out of all this. There was neither the interest of foreign investors any more serious in the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, because there were no serious companies that were in the privatisation, but at that moment attention was shifted to state institutions and the purchase of securities of value, i.e. the National Bank's vault records. There will be serious problems, and Serbia's country will pay for the participation of foreign banking capital that has moved and which has financed the country's liquidity in a certain way. In 2008, Serbia sold 8.5 billion dinars for its own liquidity, in 2009 it rose to 202 billion dinars, in 2010 to 254, for this year 285 etc. It's a dizzy growth in the sale of vault records. The question is where and when it can be stopped. This power obviously cannot stop it and therefore it is necessary for this government to withdraw, to come a more normal government that will think far more seriously about this charter than the value and method of funding the regular liquidity of the state. A few more sentences about the board's work. Since I'm the chairman of a committee, I'm going to try to state the SRS' position on the committee's work. I think, as in this case, we've satisfied the form. We through this Rules of Procedure have received a certain maneuvering space for the work of the board, but they are, in fact, put somewhere in the short term. All the official government has been saying is that the committees will now work much more prominently, that there will be debate clubs, that there will be a new momentum in the development of democracy, the development of parliamentaryism, etc. It's not gonna happen. The committees don't work, we need to be clear about that. The fact that we now satisfy the form and instead of the Jank we set up Peru, instead of the Zelena we set up Mara, there's nothing to do with it. The committees don't work, it has to be clear. First of all, ministers don't come to committees. What is required under the Rules of Procedure, the ministries must deliver quarterly and half-yearly work reports. I'm the chairman of the board, and I'm forcing them to deliver a report on the work. Is it the role of the president to insist and seek? You've erased the board's control function and the control function of this assembly. The executive government does what they want. That's why the formal position of the board is like that. If you really thought that committees and this assembly were a control body for the work of state institutions, executive authorities, a completely different function would be a far more serious approach in practice. We now only have the satisfaction of form. These are cosmetic changes that won't do us any good, unfortunately. The election's close, so I'll see you after these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57982	Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57983	Mr. Novakovic, it's a good thing we finally opened this topic and what I'm saying is, above all, a point called – the election of the president and members of the Securities Committee. At first, I have to give some precise information because I get the impression that there's a little bit of a mistake about these issues and even some facts. Two years ago, in accordance with the applicable law, the Finance Committee asked parliamentary groups to submit their proposals in order to fill the seats in the Securities Commission. I think we've repeated that letter two or three times, to inform the MP groups to do so. Now to skip those two years, they did it at one point and as a result, a proposal for this decision arose. Of course, he's a majority voter. I must draw your attention that we have a systemic problem when it comes to this commission, and not only when it comes to this commission, but also when it comes to the selection of other para-state and state bodies, whose choice is in the power of the Assembly, and when it is prescribed in law that the applicant is a committee or a parliamentary group. It's totally unacceptable. How'd that go? It started with amendments to the National Bank Act back in 2003, when Kori Udovici was elected. That was the first time the choice of governor was changed and it was said – on the proposal of parliamentary groups. Later, this automation entered all our laws, where the National Assembly chooses members of an organ, and these organs are not defined by the Constitution, nor are they constitutional categories. One of these categories is also the Securities Commission, which regulates the law governing securities of value and the capital market. When the situation occurs that the parliamentary group has the status of first proposing to any committee, and the committee is officially proposing to the National Assembly, then we really have this situation. We have a situation where the proposed candidates strictly fail to meet the conditions of choice prescribed by law. My predecessors, starting with Zeljko Tomic and beyond, quoted the relevant provision of the law. However, I get the impression that they got a little confused in that reading. One variant is the first choice, and the other is this. We can interpret that as a kind of lapus, that doesn't change the essence. What is important for the fundamental debate on the Commission, on membership, on the work of the Commission? I think we had a chance to hear a few very striking details today. Just to remind you, taking action when it comes to "Knjiz Milos" - a scandal that can't be bigger. As a result of the scandal, numerous resignations of members of the Securities Commission have occurred. These resignations have never been considered in the National Assembly. On the basis of one member of that law at the time, they continued and when he gave them the term of office. This, by some principle of legality and continuity, is kind of recognised, as it comes from the assumption that it is impossible for the state to remain without a state authority. The state in all variants has some continuity. It's problematic if it's even possible as an interpretation. The very fact that a scandal occurred with the takeover of "The Book of Milosha" had to be a tectonic event, that everyone in charge was wondering what kind of commission was in the personal composition and whether something should be changed in terms of the authority of the Securities Commission? It's not just about trading securities of value, it's not just about taking action, it's about having a significant impact on the register of securities of value. In addition, the Securities Commission is in one part and the regulatory body that prescribes who can be a broker, which the conditions must meet, etc., not to spread, since it is not the subject of this law, nor the competence of this Commission. When you look at work experience on relevant jobs, no candidate meets the requirements. This is where you found it for two. Yes, but they didn't meet the conditions even during the first election, so the question is whether they even met the conditions. Who seriously warned us that something was wrong with the composition of the Securities Committee? Well, one member who resigned -- Malinic. He said openly in a letter – people, I've run out of mandate, no one changes me under official duty, I resign, I replace myself with the help of the National Assembly, and you'll have to open the topic of the Securities Commission. This has opened the topic, although it has been open for two and a half years as far as the Finance Committee is concerned. We see from this, when proposing parliamentary groups, that this is a bad solution, because MP groups are handling certain requirements, some interests, and we can say that there is also a group of gaps in terms of meeting the conditions for the proposed candidates. You know for a few years now, the highlight of democracy has been where most of them are. We have dealt with many things in the principle of the majority here, so we have chosen some who have not met even the basic conditions, so through that vote we have done a kind of amnesty. It's like at the time of Radoman Bozovic, he said with 70 votes in this hall I have to declare the country a quarter. Something similar is demonstrated by Mrs. Komic, but Radoman Bozovic worked on the order of Slobodan Milosevic, and this is what Mrs. Comic is doing on the orders of Boris Tadic. That's the change. Most people can do anything. Most of it can't, most of it can't make these people five-year work experience in value paper business. Why? They wrote in their biographies that records of value know through textbooks. Probably one of them wasn't holding a bond in his hands, etc. Who did you propose? Party personnel, we need to say that these aren't party personnel, they are. In what way? In terms of how the government is formed, and that's a fact, and you can demonstrate that majority of yours, but you can't change that fundamental flaw in the elemental conditions that need to be met. Let me just distract you. The National Assembly has not passed any final budget bill, starting in 2002, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and this stop. In 2008 and 2009, they are in the process. Then the question really arises – if the Republic of Serbia as a state through the government and the National Assembly does not want to draw a line at the end of the year and inform the citizens that the government has been acting in the spending of people's money and it has its continuity since the moment when democracy hit us, then who are we calling for insubordination of the law? Do we have the moral right to invoke someone for contempt of the law? This is the most obvious example of breaking the law. Then they find themselves smart, and they say – in the meantime they changed the rules, so they needed an internal, external audit, and before the DRI was invented, it was by the system of excuses. Fact is, the government didn't file a bill. Why? There's a reason why the bill hasn't been filed. Now I'd like to go with this band. I won't talk so much about names and last names, because my predecessors have read everything that's interesting in their biographies, and it can serve as proof that they don't meet the conditions, but I would draw your attention to the facts, I'm reading a document signed by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Branislav Zec. Very interesting data. These are data on privatisations and broken privatisations. This has to do with securities on value, because it's about stock companies and their actions are registered in the central register. Here's some interesting data. Mirko Cvetkovic was the director of the Agency from 26 December 2002 to 7 April 2004. During his term of office, 795 companies were sold, and was immediately terminated in 199. The next very interesting director of the Privatisation Agency was Miodrag Djordjevic. From 15 July 2004 to 5 October 2006, sold 497 and broken 111. The third on this list was Mrs. Vesna Djindjic, who was the director of this Privatisation Agency from 25 May 2007 to 18 June 2009, sold 531 companies, i.e. the company, was terminated 193. Happy Vladislav Cvetkovic, who today has sold 46, has broken up eight. When all this is settled, it starts with Vladimir Čupic, who was the first to find Vladimir Čupic, which is now the director of the Hypo Bank, which he knows little about the arms trade, which is inherited by him, otherwise the Hypo Bank was created in Klagenfurt, the bank's chief founder was this Gider party. The bank acquired large assets during the 1991s. In 1992 or 1993, because they were a channel to pay for illegal weapons coming to Slovenia, Croatia, BiH. Just so you know who did what, how he did it, and what side he was on. Since this building was set on fire and democracy has come under the highest European standards, 2,280 companies have been sold, of which 625 have been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57984	I'm sorry, Mr. Krasic, only privatisation and the securities market aren't exactly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57985	Yes, Mr. Novakovic, but you spoke to the secretary when I explained why it was relevant, so you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57986	Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57987	It has to do with the fact that all these companies, companies must have their own shares registered in the central register, and the central register is not so independent because above it is the review of the Securities Commission. I am now making a connection between successful, unsuccessful and all these privatisations and the need to ensure that such a composition of the Securities Committee of value whose members don't even have to meet the requirements prescribed by the law, because most of the 126 will vote and thus cover it, as is covered here, and the fact that we haven't had final accounts since 2002 ended in 2007. These are all the black traces of democracy, the blackest traces of democracy. That can't change with 126. I'm trying to explain to people why someone feels like they're having a hard time living today, that they're having some problems. Mr. Novakovic, since I have succeeded what I have planned, you have directed me towards the subject, I am extremely grateful, because I have to explain to you another kind of manipulation that this commission has completed, and the same will continue. What's this about? You remember that in 2008 under the influence of the global economic crisis, we call it SEKA, there was a disturbance on our financial market, and at the request of some of the people from the AP Vojvodina, according to Bojan Pajtic, the province government, or the Finance Secretariat, has withdrawn some funds that were deposited at "Metals Bank". They have insinuated to question the liquidity of the bank and rather Jelasic introduces measures and inserts personnel DS to be a temporary body that will handle it. Now you're going to hear what she's done, it's designed, you're going to see below what function the Securities Committee has given me, and I've been admitted to the Finance Committee, so don't worry, there's everything in the stenogram. When they finished this well, because two years before they thought about how it could become a Vojvodine Development Bank, then moved these, came theirs, returned the AP their funds and now the bank, having taken those measures away from it, asks the Commission for the values of the closed recapitalisation procedure, to allow the AP to only buy new actions that are in the function of increasing the capital of that bank. Who was involved in the operation? The National Bank, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister and had to get the Commission's opinion on securities of value. The Securities Commission held that the Autonomous Province belongs to these priority state entities that can buy in a closed procedure and have forgotten only one thing – the Autonomous Province is not that state body, only the Republic could do so. Why did they exceed the authority they had? At the address of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, he made a little effort, that's what the board members know, and then the Saric affair exploded. Within this affair, Traveler knows what he was doing there, shopping, etc., and everyone knows he was celebrating the fourth billion when he earned in Novi Sad. You weren't at the party? Some of your friends were at the party, Mr. Novakovic. I'll tell you later, so you don't punish me. So, we know all that, but the Balkan warrior happened by accident, because the ship crashed. If it hadn't been for the boat, Saric would've gone out and dressed even more. However, there remains an enigma whether Saric even exists. You see the role of the Securities Commission. This composition of the Securities Commission is with such an opinion that the Autonomous Province is a priority public buyer who is allowed, it has shown in fact that it cannot, by its personal composition, be a regulatory body, or be able to prescribe rules, or organise these exams for brokers, for dealers, for porphylio managers, etc. They ruined everything. They just can't be trusted. That is why, Mr. Novakovic, I am warning you and most of it here, Milko Stimac, Dusan Bajec, since they are from the old band, should not even be candidates for members of the commission, regardless of what Zeljko Tomic and my predecessors have said, that they do not meet the conditions prescribed by law. So, just because they made it possible to hijack the Metals Bank, the creation of the Vojvodina Development Bank with a solution to the Charter of Values, they gave one opinion that is essentially illegal, but what does that matter? Based on that opinion, the Regional Finance Secretariat has become the largest shareholder of the Development Bank. Why is it all done? Because of the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, which is not only a white elephant but a protected bear. They can invest directly in some local communities, skip everything in a row, don't need a law on public procurement. They used eight billion. Four billion have lost, they can't justify it. What especially did they stand out in? They stood out in the additional elections because Pajtic went and concluded contracts with local communities – just close the deal, we will arrange 50% by election day, and if you vote in the local community for autonomists headed by DS and then 15 days after the election, we will end it all. All those who believed still have unresolved sewers without me telling you when they're building some playgrounds. I'll find out better tomorrow. They built a playground in Ratkov. I don't know how many millions they gave. People who get a little bit of understanding in those baskets and in that asphalt, they say, so it could all end up for 500,000 dinars. They must have given six or seven or eight million dinars, and is someone going to read about what's going on with that Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund? Is there a commission's jurisdiction? In one part there is, but fear is much greater. Do you see what it's for and why these people are coming back? Maybe you don't know who Zoran Cirovic is. It's the one that always comes with Bozidar Djelic here and smiles all the time. You show him your finger, he smiles. You show him another finger, he smiles. The doctor's like some. I don't know why doctors laugh so much. You'll see how thin the résumé is. Mr. Novakovicu, his name is Zorica Krnjević. Does she have anyone at the Ministry? You don't know? How do I need to know everything and you don't have to know anything? It has something to do with that ministry where the two Thaci Albanians are busy working on Serbian affairs. You don't know that? Why do you do politics when you don't know? To deal with politics, you have to know everything. You have to spy, you have to hijack the data, you have to skip to room G17 plus, open the window, take the data. You have to do everything. Why? Because a politician can't make a mistake. If he makes that catastrophic mistake, here's where Boki brought us. It's not Boki 13, it's Boris Tadic. You see where he brought us? After this, I'm really asking the public who's gonna raise a hand for these candidates. You don't have to believe me, but you should probably trust this Mr. Malinich because he's been an insider for years. He knows best what his commissions were like, what they were doing and how they were doing. I could tell you more about that securities commission, but I won't, Mr. Novakovic, so you don't sweat, so you don't have to bother. Otherwise, the funniest thing we've heard on the Finance Committee from Mr. Stimec was - this commission itself is being funded and at the end of the year we made a profit and returned to the budget. Look at that, folks, so we can get rid of our regulations immediately. No state body should be self-financed. Everyone has to be financed from the budget. The fact that they charge their services, goes into the budget, and out of the budget to fund it, because if someone becomes self-financed in terms of the market economy of the law supply and demand and logical assumptions of the morning session where we had those two institutions, we systematically develop corruption. In order for Mr. Stimac to behave financially with his commission, he must respect market principles because more will be appreciated by the commission if two million are paid in the budget at the end of the year. If only 500 grand was not very successful. I now appreciate that Guta Radosavljevic is only going to this commission because he is head of the Tax Administration, and you know that it is their responsibility to kidnap, collect, etc. I hope no one realized I had anything personal or any of my colleagues with these people, with these names and last names. The purpose of today's debate and our participation is to indicate that such serious things or issues that have to be serious cannot be resolved in this way, especially we cannot propose candidates, and these candidates in their biographies are data and facts that show that they do not meet the basic conditions of choice. Forget all this other stuff I said, this formal condition that they don't meet is so dominant that, because we all swore here that we would respect the Constitution and the law, that oath obliges us not to accept this, but to do something else. Did I go too far? I congratulate you, Mr. Novakovic, as soon as possible in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-08-0.u57988	Thank you very much. I've been very patient. The lists of political groups are no longer signed up for the word, so before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the word wants anyone else who has not used the right of Article 96? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. This concludes the debate in principle on all points of the agenda. We will continue on Tuesday, July 12th at 10.00pm, by discussing details of a joint principled search of library laws.
