ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61562	Dear People's MPs, we are continuing the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. Before moving to work, I would like to inform you that, in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, I have called for this part of the session, alongside the members of the government, to be attended by Mr Borislav Stefanovic, the head of the negotiating team for talks with representatives of the provisional institutions in Pristina, who has shown willingness to answer the questions of MPs regarding the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Before we move to parliamentary matters, allow me to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked: The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a particular minister or government, out of their jurisdiction, which is in accordance with Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated, as provided for in Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the MP asking questions cannot last longer than three minutes, in accordance with Article 204(4). The Rules of Procedure, and the President of the National Assembly will warn the MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority (Article 204(6)). Rules of Procedure. The Government, or the Minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. This is provided for in Article 206(1). Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or on the second additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. This is regulated by Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for asking questions if they have not already done so. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. Allow me, before we move on to ask parliamentary questions, to inform you that you have received the resignations of Drago Damjanovic and Nebojsa Zdravkovic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, in view of the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that by resigning the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law, the Law on the Selection of National MPs, and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandate of these MPs. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office, before the end of the time at which the MPs Drago Damjanovic and Nebojsa Zdravkovic, elected from the election list ZES-Boris Tadic, was elected, on the date of their resignation, that is, on 27 September 2011. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. First of all, the People's MP, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61563	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President and Mr. Ministers, on 10 May, I asked the government a question concerning restrictive administrative measures announced to prevent the arrival of asylum seekers, particularly Roma and Albanians, which at that time threatened visa liberalisation. That's why this issue was then particularly updated. On this occasion, I drew attention to the fact that these measures are not only sufficient and I have sought a deeper analysis of the reasons why the Albanians of the Presevo Valley are forced to seek asylum in developed European countries. I also explained that the number of Albanians in this area, seeking asylum, is far less than the number of Albanians who are leaving their hearth mass to find a job abroad. This mass departure from the Presevo Valley, not only towards developed European countries, but also towards Kosovo, was caused by a catastrophic economic situation and a record unemployment rate. So I asked the government then what would be more concrete in order to create the necessary conditions in this area, in order to create at least minimum conditions for normal life for Albanians, of course, with the necessary analysis of the reasons for these very negative phenomena. I received an answer from the Home Secretary that such an analysis is impossible because it is a complex and complex job and I have received notice of certain activities carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in underdeveloped areas. I am now taking another chance to ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic directly, and to get an answer, what can the government do to prevent this mass departure because, may I say, the Bear of the former 5,500 Albanians currently has only 500 Albanians? This municipality, as you can see, is a witness, in the 21st century prior to total ethnic cleansing. This danger threatens other municipalities, both Bujanovci and Presheva. That's why the question is asked then and now – what can the additional government do to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61564	The time for asking questions is up. Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The Prime Minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61565	Dear People's MPs and MPs, first of all I'd like to say hello to you, we haven't seen each other in a little while, and I just wanted to have these conversations. At the same time, I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate you on the really great efforts and work you've made, and even over these summer months, which we've managed to adopt very important laws and to practically fulfill all or almost everything we've planned to do. With regard to the question that is raised here, which basically, if I understand correctly, concerns the problem of high unemployment and the problem of economic migration, is it now, based on the demand for false asylum, which has a problem of the economy behind it, that is one of the major problems, primarily the state as such, and also undeveloped areas. A similar case with a large abandonment of birth and life in search of a better and happier life where you have the opportunity to work, we have recorded in eastern Serbia where a large number of people move and move to more developed parts of the country or seek employment in Western Europe, and of course we have that case, as you said, in Presevo Valley. The issue of unemployment is one of the most difficult issues facing the government. We have over 20% unemployment. Practically all the measures the government is taking are basically trying to create jobs and solve this problem. Of course, the government is not an entrepreneur and it cannot build factories, but what it does is it changes the economic system and changes the business environment and thus creates basics that would be stimulating for people, entrepreneurs, foreign and domestic ones to open new factories. Of course, it is a process, especially difficult to achieve during a crisis that is unfortunately combined with a period of transition. I can say that you are here, too, through the adoption of these legislations that change our economic and political system to a good extent, practically on the task of providing incentives for greater production and greater employment. If it is specifically about what can be done additionally in relation to the general measures for the part relating to southern Serbia, you know that the Co-ordination Body was founded and that the Co-ordination Body, among other things, has certain economic functions, which is probably better than I can be told by Minister Markovic, who is otherwise the head of the Co-ordination Body.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61566	Thank you. Mr. Halimi obviously has a comment or an additional question, so it will be an opportunity for Minister Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61567	President, I think the problem of going to emigration is present in other parts of the country, mostly mountain-mounted. I'd like to remind you that Bujanovac and Preshevo are also passing Corridor 10. Both municipalities have even additional border crossings. We know that the Government cannot directly open its own companies, but what has been done to enable the capacity of Corridor 10, that the municipal authorities also have the capacity and opportunity to do certain capacities in Corridor 10 which would be in the interest of the development of these municipalities. Those citizens who have border crossings, when no Albanian has been there so far, have had any expeditions from Presevo and Bujanovac there, or any other economic operator. They come from developed centers. I think the municipality under such a geographical position, with such adjustments, has income per capita seven times lower than the national average, based on the latest data given by municipalities, which is since 2006, where the unemployment rate has reached 70%, which is 4-5 times the national average. I'm talking about a dramaticly difficult situation where appropriate measures are to be taken urgently, to prevent massive departure, so that the same fate of the Bear does not experience Presevo and Bujanovac. Secondly, what did the Ministry of Business do when companies were privatized? Do you know who bought the Company of Brethren? I asked the Minister of Economy at the time – what will he do to prevent discrimination against Albanians in Presevo, above all, who were not allowed to apply, to be potential buyers of the trading company, because the condition was that the candidate had a four-star hotel? Who had it - drug traffickers. As you know, it's already been established who bought the Brethren then. A similar fate was the "Electrocontact", which was sold for only 2,700 euros. There are 30 workers left on the street. The same fate had a "July 7th" and a number of other businesses during a drastically unfavourable privatisation that was carried out in the area. What can the state, which is its intention to help, such as Vranj, and other developed municipalities where 5,000 euros are given for one job only? There was no such help in Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear. So I asked the question - what can the Government do, what can the Prime Minister do to prevent this disaster that is at hand?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61568	Minister Milan Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61569	Thank you, President. No one can disagree with the fact that the economic situation in many municipalities and the Pcinjski and Jablanik districts is very bad. There is no dilemma, but this must not in any way lead to the fact that in one municipality there live members of a national minority, because I will immediately tell you that the situation in the Shop is far more hopeless and worse than in Bujanovac. If we look, outside of statistical indicators, the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac are one of the few municipalities where statistics are much more cruel than what they are in the truth, thanks to the large number of our fellow citizens who live abroad and have donations to their families living in Presevo and Bujanovac. Of course, this does not mean that we should not work in Presevo and Bujanovac much more, it does not mean that we generally do not face the economic situation we are facing, just as in Presevo and Bujanovac as in other municipalities in Serbia. I just want to say that we cannot specifically talk about these municipalities outside the context of all other municipalities and beyond the context of the situation in which many municipalities are located in these districts in Serbia. However, for these three years, I think that and your success, we have significantly improved life in Presevo and Bujanovac in many areas, starting with the judiciary, through education, through integration. That I'm going to make an amazing example. Two, three years ago, when we started working together, no Albanian worked at the Presevo Customs Administration, and today it is close to 25% of Albanians. We in one adequate policy are constantly integrating and improving the position and Albanian national minorities, as well as all people living in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. As far as asylum seekers are concerned, we have worked hard and worked together to address the problem of asylum seekers as much as possible. What is most important to point out is that these asylum seekers are people who were economically motivated to look for better living conditions. Far from having any political reason to leave Presevo, Bujanovac or Medvedja. I think that's where you and I get along. There we have also had talks with the police minister and with foreign representatives, and I hope that this autumn this situation will not be repeated. It's hard to describe now concrete dozens and hundreds of projects and actions we've done together over the past three years. It is very important to encourage those who want to help us, to see that something positive is happening down there, and I think that more has happened in these three years than in the last 10 years. I could be maligned and ask why none of the Albanian representatives for the past seven, eight, 10 years, before I became president of the Coordination Body, asked some questions, but found myself in a situation where I first asked them, where I realized that certain rights of the Albanian national minorities were not adequately achieved? It is likely that there are some political motives that led to the Albanian national community boycotting the census, which for me was a huge disappointment in the middle of a process that we have been successfully carrying out for three years and for which we have been supporting both the local public and the international public. In a situation where, for the first time in 20 years, we have raised the issue of adequate healthcare and that is what Minister Stankovic and I are taking care of, and by the end of the year, we will reach final arrangements in Presevo and start the construction of the maternity home. So, in the year when we end the most important things in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, such as maternity, such as Minister Zarko Obradovic, the opening of the Faculty of Economics from Subotica in Bujanovac, which will be bilingual, such as the affirmation of the work of the Faculty of Medvedja department, legal and economical, such as scholarships studying in Subotica, scholarships working in the authorities of the state administration here in Serbia, such as the first time, that we have resolved the issue of Bucharest and a total of 14 textbooks, and in hopes that, at the request of the National Council of Albanians, we will solve all 50 in the course of the following year. So, when we finally set up a policy with a common agreement that will indisputably solve the problems of Prescha, Bujanovac and Medvedje in two or three years, so there was no worse moment and there was no greater blow to that policy, but what was done now when the decision on the boycott of the referendum was made. I must say that I am very sorry about this, but I must say that we will continue to do everything in our power, to implement the policy that we have agreed and that this government is behind, which is a policy full of affirmation and full and the exercise of all rights of the Albanian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, i.e., specifically, since the coordination body is the municipality of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. As for the economic situation, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has so far tried several very good and meaningful initiatives and we have agreed with the President of the Assembly that I would not now leave out something for them to deliver in writing. But for three years, I propose to the presidents of the Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities that they agree that we form an industrial zone for the government of the Republic of Serbia and there is nothing today. Presevo and Bujanovac can no longer be cared for by the minister of one or the other from Belgrade, but by the leaders of the Albanians themselves from Presevo, Bujanovac show interest. It is not the idea for leaders from Presevo and Bujanovac to go to completely pointless gatherings in Tirana, to deal with issues that are absolutely beyond their mandate, their task is to help those who chose them, and these are people who live in Presevo and Bujanovac. We have an incredible situation all the time that initiatives to solve the problem of Presevo and Bujanovac come from the co-ordination body and from Belgrade and we constantly have greater activity for Belgrade in solving these problems and the totally passive role of Albanian politicians, so we cannot solve problems. Neither we nor you were chosen to do it that way. Albanian leaders from Presevo and Bujanovac need not to deal with political issues but rather to help solve the problems of the people who chose them. What problem in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji will be resolved by boycotting the list of Albanians? It's a list of civilization fluids. The list is the thing that exists in civilized societies to see how many of us, to see how we live, to see the structure of our community, to see what our needs, what our problems, what does a boycott of the list have to do with anything, and what good does anyone bring? I have to say, it's one big pea. So we've done more than international standards when it comes to the list. Once again, I ask you, as the most prominent representative of the Albanian political community, to consider your decision and to all work together to make the list in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji the way it should be conducted in every civilized country. The director of the Institute was in Presevo and Bujanovac, I was in Presevo and Bujanovac, my associates were in Presevo and Bujanovac, we translated what should have been translated, the censusers in the list committee in Presevo are of course all Albanians, in Bujanovac is about half – half along with two Roma. Those who list in Albanian communities are only Albanians. They exclusively use Albanian, there is a collection translated into all languages of national minorities, there are instructions exclusively translated into Albanian. But it is not true that the central record relating to local self-government, that the language of national minorities is applied, is not true and is not in accordance with the laws of this country. So the list is fully in line with the standards that exist in the international community and fully with the practice and standards that we grow in the Republic of Serbia. There are no technical reasons for the boycott list. It is a bad political decision, Mr. Halimi, a bad one, which will burden you and me both as chairman of the co-ordination body in the future, which will burden relations in Bujanovac and Presevo, which will burden as much harmony as we have managed to establish a multiethnic government in Bujanovac in the future. So, in any case, I sincerely hope that, I think the list is a very important thing and I think it's important to hear from this place what kind of a problem it is. So, once again, I ask you to reconsider that decision, and once again I ask you to think only in the future about what is the interest of the citizens who live in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, and not to listen to the dictatorship of someone who really does not care about the citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, because of some of his calculations. It is clear to all of us that the decision on the boycott has not been made either in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, or at a meeting of the committees from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. It's a decision made in Pristina. Are you willing to sacrifice what we need to do for the sake of courting someone in Pristina who obviously doesn't mean for the benefit of people living in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61570	Gentlemen, your dissatisfaction has no basis in the Rules of Procedure. As you know, questions and comments are limited. You have two more minutes, Mr. Halimi. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Government members and those who answer your questions will take care of the need. The Rules of Procedure give them the opportunity to speak indefinitely. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61571	These explanations we heard from Minister Markovic, I think in style, the surgery was successful, and the patient died. I'm talking about having a massive departure of people, in these moments due to a catastrophic economic situation, not to talk about refugees during the 1999 wartime until 2001, but about 15 thousand Albanians who were forced to leave their hearths at the time, were not returned because they were not created the elemental conditions for their return. During this year, we even have the appearance of legally invisible Albanians, until then only the Roma were legally invisible now Albanians have had the treatment. I've explained this problem a few times, if it wasn't for workers abroad, the situation would be catastrophic. We now have a situation that in this municipality, for example, Presevo, that every 30 Albanians are unemployed, every 11 Serbs are just employed, and only 60 to 66 Roma, only so many employees, all others are unemployed. That's what I'm talking about right now when we don't know the exact number of people who are temporarily staying in Europe, who will be returned to this country for reading. In a situation where we have a large number of people in Kosovo, temporarily and not yet allowed to return, I ask a question, to whom it is worth a list if it is incomplete. Let's first of all create conditions to have one serious, objective, complete list. No one's against it. The decision was made in the Presevo Assembly on September 3rd of this year by Albanian committees, not Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61572	MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61573	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask a few questions. I am very sorry that at this serious moment that is happening in Kosovo, we do not see present ministers here in the government, key ministers, who should have been there and given some explanations. We see here the Minister of Local Self-Government, Education, Health, with the Prime Minister and Mr Negotiator who was totally unsuccessful because as he appeared, everything went wrong. So I'd be very specific. Mr. President, who approved this government and gave it the legitimacy to introduce EULEX to Kosovo? Why did this government violate Security Council Resolution 1244, when everything is clearly written there and everything is suitable for Serbia? You have enabled a small door to Eulex over about six points. What were those points that were very important to enter Kosovo? It's been complicated ever since. Today, in Kosovo, it is shot with battle ammunition. Part of Serbia's territory, according to Resolution 1244, has facts on unarmed citizens, some group you've introduced down there. As you have introduced her and who they are, you should explain that to the Serbian people. Another thing, is it possible, Mr. General, you're the Minister of Health, that someone shoots a dream in the 21st century that drives wounded and injured? Is that the democracy you stand for in the government? I'm not telling you, I'm asking you directly, since you're the Minister of Health. Is it recorded anywhere in the world that someone is shooting directly in the dream while driving the injured? Of course, where is the president of Serbia who kept the key word both Kosovo and Europe? There is no Kosovo or Europe, gentlemen. Have you, gentlemen, who have spoken Kosovo and Europe for both European Serbia and have won and taken power, are you now feeling responsible and now that you do not have a majority and cannot vote the laws, and should you call the elections? What else are you waiting for? You don't have a majority, you don't have a parliamentary majority behind you. You rule I don't know how or who's responsible for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61574	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61575	I'm trying to define what the questions are so I can answer them. If I understand correctly, the first question is about six points on which EULEX came and which were given by the UN Secretary-General. I believe it's known and I don't understand what the question is right now. If you want detailed information, they can be prepared, but this is a thing that is generally known and already said. As for the second question, about the shooting of sanity, I will give, of course, a word and a resolute minister to say something, but I don't think anyone approves of such a move, and in this context, the government of the Republic of Serbia in today's session has reached a conclusion asking the UN to examine the whole case in detail, investigate and to come up with facts, in which this requirement does not only apply to the sanity, but to all the events of which we are witnessing. I want to tell you that this is not about someone sitting here right now, observing someone's suffering and acting indifferent, on the contrary, this government is fully behind its people in Kosovo. Finally, when it comes to the question of the majority, among other things, there will be a budget rebalance within ten days here in the Assembly, then you will see if the government doesn't have a majority that it's a different situation, but we have no reason to talk verbally about something that is pure numbers and what will be seen. Finally, we're six months away or something before the regular election, so there's nothing special about it to add.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61576	The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61577	I was expecting the minister's answer, but no problem. Please give me back my time. Mr. Prime Minister, I was very clear and specific, I asked you a question specifically - who signed the entry of EULEX into Kosovo's territory and who are these six points to list me? We don't know who they are yet. It has been said that those points have solved all problems in northern Kosovo and Kosovo and that Serbs are fully protected. I am very clear and concrete – what are six points? It's very ironic how you addressed with a smile in this crisis situation. I expected to see you, Mr. President, in one concern in front of the MPs at this time, when part of the Serbs downstairs bleeds in Kosovo, when people are wounded, injured. You're here smiling, relaxed, we came to see each other, we haven't seen each other in a while. It's lucky to see you again, but it's your fault that you don't come to parliament. Therefore, the questions are very serious. I'm telling you, Mr. President, you've located the police wrong now. I'm not saying there should be any war facts or anything, but someone has to be in that area. Now you're bringing in a bunch of police and equipment for a gay parade. You're getting ready intensively for a gay parade. Are you in government thinking straight? Do you think it's justifiable to make a gay parade at the moment when this is happening in Kosovo? Is it normal for a government to seriously discuss this and seek all security measures to finally maintain it? Is it a problem now to cause some problems in Belgrade as far as your government is concerned? Do you want to make an incident in Belgrade? Who needs that now? Why is there no unity in the government now, but everyone at this moment, when the burning in Kosovo, when the problems are great, now the skull who arrives -- they're looking for the railroad, they're asking for this to vote, they're looking for what? Mr. President, you're in a complete collapse of the system and you're totally falling apart, that's what this House feels like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61578	Do any of the ministers want to give an answer? Yeah. ) Prime Minister Zoran Stankovic said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61579	Mr. Ilic, there are known cases, especially in the war-stricken space of the previous Yugoslavia, when it was shot at sanity. Colonel Buda Radulovic was killed in Dobrovoljaka Street in Sanitation. Missile i.e. The bullet was fired by putting a handgun tube in his mouth. This isn't the only and only case, so it's also known during the bombing of our country. What I can tell you is that these two sanityes during the morning were excluded from KFOR and went to the review to determine, given that they contained missiles fired from handguns, carried out ballistics and rears and determined the origin of the missile and what was done on that occasion. For your information, I'd like to tell you that the driver of the sanity that was hit received a severe eye injury and medical attention was provided to him in Kosovo Mitrovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61580	MP Velimir Ilic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61581	I'm pleased, Mr. Stankovic, and thank you for your reply. But this part of the question I asked the prime minister very specifically, I expect the prime minister to answer and he hasn't answered. The question is very serious – what are the six points? Because you have boasted for months that you have solved the Eulex issue with six points that are important to the Serbs in Kosovo, that they guarantee full protection and security and that those six points are enough that resolution 1244 cannot be violated. What are those points? Who blessed that? Who signed and who introduced EULEX outside the Security Council decision and Resolution 1244, and the Assembly resolutions, and against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Who acts like this and who's obliged to protect the naked citizens if there's a problem? How and in what way? Did you define it through six points or not? Why today, in the 21st century, when we are expected to join the EU, to get candidate status, do we get combat ammunition in Serbian citizens on Serbia's territory? What did our negotiators do? What was the minister for Kosovo doing? How did he behave in this situation? They went out after that and said they were giving out solid guarantees that everything was gonna be okay, and here's how it's gonna be. Do you have the strength to end it? If you don't, there's a way and way to do what you have to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61582	Before I give my word to the next on the list, MP Bojan Đuric, a notice confirming the mandate of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with the RIK Report on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats of MPs in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Administrative Committee, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with the MPs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Jaroslav Hrebik and Niko Stojsic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find confirmation of the mandate of MPs Jaroslav Hrebik and Niko Stojsic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. The word is from MP Bojan Djuric, followed by MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61583	Dear Vice-Presidents, Prime Minister, Minister, Mr Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I congratulate my colleagues who have confirmed the mandate at this time. I'm afraid it will be the only beautiful and solemn news from today's session, especially because of the way it began and the atmosphere in which it takes place. I would say it was actually a stalemate position, not what Mr Stefanovic spoke of as a stalemate in his statements last night or this morning, when he spoke about the way they broke up the negotiations in Brussels. What happened in Brussels and what has been happening in Kosovo for the last 12 or 13 days is either the defeat or the last defeat of a policy that has been doomed from the very beginning. There is no need, Mr. Cvetkovic, to humiliate both Serbia and ministers in your government by giving Mr. Stankovic, who is the health minister, the word to explain the situation of people being killed in the sanity and everything that happened in that area in Kosovo. Mr. Stankovic has no jurisdiction over that territory. Nothing can say more to this parliament or the citizens of Serbia than he has said – that everything is in the hands of KFOR or in the hands of KFOR, Eulex and the authorities in Pristina and that only one can receive a report that will be forwarded here. When ballistics, judicial medicine, and pathology are reached in that field, such as in 1992, 1993, and 1995, then I fear that the next step is the same as it was in 1995 or 1999, or as it is announced these days. My first question is to Mr. Stefanovic, in fact to explain to us exactly what a stalemate position implies for him? What exactly are the options for Serbia at the moment it rose from the table, as the only place she could still talk about anything that Kosovo's Serbia could get? What's the state's message to them? I don't believe it's your personal message, Mr. Stefanovic, I think it's a message from the state summit, the state leadership, so I assume you've also received such instructions from Mr. Cvetkovic, who is your nominal boss as Prime Minister. So how will that message of yours end where you say that citizens must remain calm, dignified, and if they endure long enough, that the problem will be solved. You have no problem with Serbs in northern Kosovo or Serbs south of Ibra. You have a problem with the international community, the most important European states and the United States, which have no understanding of Serbia's views anymore. You admitted it yourself, after talking to Riker and Cooper, that your views in the diplomatic formulation had not drawn close to you. They won't get anywhere near it for another five, ten or a month. The rounding of Kosovo's territorial integrity and independence will end and there will be an exodus in Serbia. There will be a re-recording of that hotel in Mataruska Banja, which has now broadcast RTS before the very beginning of this session, where 28 refugees live on the same floor with one toilet, and if they remain calm and remain still. That's what will be the epilogue of this policy, regardless of the patriotic attacks you're exposed to and any discounts you give so-called. The patriotic opposition in this House. If we don't go one step further today than what we talked about here two months ago, then this session is pointless. RTS could have played the session footage at the end of July and everyone was itching again the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61584	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61585	Before I give my word to Mr Stefanovic, I feel the need to say something about the previous discussion, not this ongoing one. In fact, the Rules of Procedure, as you know, is not intended to, after the third address, be given the word to the representatives of the Government, which implies that there can be no questions in the third address, but only findings. On the contrary, the MP has asked questions. Of course, because of our business inability, we stayed silent. Turns out we don't have the answers to those questions. The truth is quite the opposite, but it should simply be borne in mind that after the third address, we do not have the right to speak. That's why I urge other speakers to only give their opinions and opinions in the third address, not to ask questions. Since the question has been asked, I'm going to take the opportunity to answer it very briefly. So, where did Eulex come from? The Security Council made it possible for Eulex to come. The same Security Council also adopted Resolution 1244, which is the same organ, so to speak, which is the basis for the stay of Eulex in Kosovo. The six-point document is public and you can find it on the Internet, and whoever needs it, we can deliver it to it. Finally, it should also be borne in mind that in a concrete situation, given the relentless shooting events, EULEX did not shoot but shot KFOR and that is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has asked the UN to determine the facts about it. By the way, KFOR, as well as Eulex, has the obligation of status neutrality. Before I say another word, I would just like to make another finding about the insult or humiliation of parliament, as the previous speaker said. If someone humiliated him by asking Minister Stankovic to apply, then it certainly wasn't me. I thought I'd give him my word after he was explicitly called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61586	Borislav Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61587	Mr. Djuric, thank you for that question. There were a few findings that absolutely reflect your political position and the position of your party. There are various options, but there are some options that cannot possibly bring any benefit to this state or its citizens. I don't think that these options should be considered at all, because their use would lead this country into an even greater disaster. I think we agree in that sense. What we disagree on is that there is no way out and that we have a problem with the international community. If we had a problem with an international community that is insecure, believe that it would not be possible for Mr. Cooper to come here to Belgrade at the beginning of next week, to continue the conversation we started, it seems to me a very detailed conversation in Brussels. This shows that Serbia is defined for dialogue and that we have not interrupted dialogue. That's what I'm trying to say very clearly. Why didn't we break up? Just because that dialogue can only produce results, and that's the only way to solve problems, and everything else is passwords and patriotic drilling into a hero's chest. At that moment, however, we could not continue the dialogue with Pristina on issues of electricity, telephones and regional initiatives, while what was happening in the north of KiM, what was going on, that someone was shooting at unarmed citizens with ammunition. Our position here was very clear and will remain that way. We think it is a priority to resolve the issue of Jarinj and Brnjak and the problems that exist there. Believe that there is a lot of understanding in the international community that this is a burning issue. I don't think your skepticism and pessimism have any basis. If we all stand with those positions that parties in this Parliament and a respectable home, which tend to European integration, on the one hand and those who are against, sort of get along strangely, then I don't think we have a bright future as a people. I think at this point, the easiest thing to say is the following things -- you won't agree on either five or ten days, not in 15 days, and so on, on the one hand, or on the other hand to say -- what you have to say at all. Since you have such conflicting views in this House, the government must find a way to ensure the best possible outcome and the best possible outcome for this country. That outcome will be difficult to reach, no one slows it down, but does anyone here think it's an alternative to raise their hands or someone thinks they're putting their hands on something else? If they think this differently, I expect them to say it publicly. Let them say what is the option that brings us the solution, let them tell those citizens at the barricades. I think it's very simple in this situation to go to them and tell them what they've all told them. And I think we all agree that citizens should be supported in a peaceful protest and they should continue with a peaceful protest because it defends not only their lives, their survival and their property, but defends the interest of the Republic of Serbia. But everything beyond that is a mistake and everything beyond that leads us to ruin. What's the state gonna do? The state will insist, despite all the pressures and criticisms, the plantings, the lies, the misrepresentation of everything that is going on, continue to seek a solution through dialogue. If someone thinks the situation can be like 1999 and before the war, they're wrong. If anyone thinks that the KiM state of Serbia can function in full scope, in Kline, Serbian, Prizren, it is very wrong. If anyone thinks that the state of Serbia wants to leave its citizens both north and south of Ibra, the same is wrong. If anyone thinks we're going to give up our constitution, the law and our institutions, we won't. But the question arises – if the international community stands in the position that there is no change in the situation established by Pristina's unilateral move, on the one hand, and the citizens will not accept that solution under any conditions, on the other hand, it is a stalemate position, Mr. Gjuric. The only way out of that stalemate is through a deal, and we'll get a deal and that's bold of the government to say, but it's even bolder to say that this deal will be the best possible for our interests, and above all for the interests of Serbs in the north of KIM. If we don't have that faith and we don't have a plan and we don't have an initiative and an active approach, then we shut ourselves out of everything and we bring the state into a catastrophic situation, and then we won't have an answer to those citizens who are there. It's normal, and I end up with people being impatient right now. I think it's normal in these difficult circumstances that people are under terrible pressure, that different sides tell them different stories. Now, the easiest thing to do is move towards black and white solutions, easy solutions. Easy solutions in the Balkans lead to disaster. If our only problem with some opposition parties is that you're going to say we don't have a plan, what you're going to say is that we don't know what to do, what you're going to say that you'd do better, and you don't say how, what you're going to say you don't have patience, then we don't have a problem. Hold on, gentlemen, the results. I am prepared, of course, as the Prime Minister and everyone here is, to answer all questions and every detail, as we have told the Serbs in KIM every time, as well as the Serbian Parliament, but don't make a question about something that doesn't exist. It's an old story. Who brought Eulex? Who signed up for Eulex? They all know, a thousand times it's been repeated. That's it. You don't know what to do, you don't know the results, you don't know the results in front of your eyes. No, that's not enough. It's supposed to cloud people in front of their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61588	National MP Bojan Đuric, supplemental question or comment, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61589	First, with all due respect, Mr Stefanovic, I don't think it's appropriate for you to use the answer that you're giving to my question to lead justified or unwarranted verbal wars with other parliamentary groups or other questions, whether you're doing it in relation to the questions that have been asked before mine, or to anti-cipe some other questions. If you're trying to send a message that there are two extreme solutions here, one that is wary and that is proposed by some political parties and another extremely extreme, which for four years has been proposed by the LDP, and that is to sit at the table, understand, accept Ahtisaari's plan as a basic solution and then work on his promotion, then your middle solution leads nowhere. It leads to the stalemate you were talking about. I would believe that this is a stalemate when the two sides disagree, which will end with some solution, that we did not have the same stalemate in 1991 when Serbia did not accept the Karington plan, so in 1992 and 1993 when we did not accept the plans in Bosnia, so in 1994 or 1995 when we did not accept the ZE4. And then they told us that this was a stalemate and that only if we lasted long enough in the end would we win, and it ended the way it ended. It ended with stenographic notes from the Supreme Defence Council, where today it is said of Ratko Mladic who will not sign the map if Neretva is not included, and there is no ammunition to defend Trebinje either. And that's what you have to say. Of course, the war solution is not a solution, but also in the performances of the ruling coalition of the highest state authorities, the thesis that if we endure long enough, if we make parallel institutions, if we act as Albanians in the 1990s, that we will fight for our affairs. That's not true. In 1999, Albanians did not fight for their independence because they had parallel schools, but because they took the rifle, went into the woods, clashed with Serbia, received NATO support. If you think it's a solution for both Serbia and its interests in the North, say so. I don't think you mean it, but it implies your behavior every day, not just your own, but all the other state officials. Please don't call on the international community and the successes. When you mention Mr. Cooper, he is a man, an international official, who sent Belgrade and Pristina two days ago for a well-deserved summer vacation, with a message to return colder heads after an annual vacation. That Belgrade or Pristina did not understand enough what the message was, is the problem of Belgrade and Pristina. I think it's Belgrade's first problem for us. And how much support we have in the international community can be discussed yesterday's performance by Mr. Werner Hoer, who is practically the head of German diplomacy at the moment in Bundestag. That's also a question for Mr. Djelic. Mr Hoer said that at this point due to the conflict in northern Kosovo and the fact that Serbia is unable to prove that it is fully defined for peace that not the start date of the negotiations is at risk, but a positive decision on Serbia's EU bid is at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61590	Borislav Stefanovic has a word, if he understands the additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61591	I didn't understand the question, but I think it's appropriate to apologize if I hurt someone, as you said, Mr. Djuric. I'm really sorry, but I didn't understand. I mean, I understood your attitude, but I didn't understand the question. However, I think it is important that I say that it is not the government's position that we should endure, so we will reach a solution. No, I think that's where you're wrong, as I think you're wrong about the epilogue of this being an independent Kosovo for the Republic of Serbia. Such an epilogue for the Republic of Serbia will never be. I also think you make a dangerous mistake when you use the term "parole institutions". The parallel institutions, even in logical terms, are impossible, inconclusive, because they have nothing to be parallel. You know that very well. To be parallel to something, something needs to exist. The so-called Kosovo institutions do not exist in northern Kosovo and Metohija and I hope they do not exist. As for the fact that our strategy is a delay, it is not our strategy to postpone and it is not true that there is some other way, realistically, to solve this problem except through agreement. I think we agree in that sense. If you feel that this agreement cannot be reached through dialogue, that is. a solution through dialogue, then tell us how to achieve it, if not through dialogue and not through difficult negotiations that are often such that they do not coincide with the full need to achieve all our interests, but we will try to get the best possible solution in difficult circumstances. I think that's quite appropriate to this situation we're in. No one broke up the dialogue. The dialogue has been delayed and will continue very quickly, perhaps before you know it. If you say that Ahtisaari's plan is the only solution, I tell you that Ahtisaari's plan is not the only solution, because Ahtisaari's plan for us cannot be acceptable for two reasons: firstly, because in his end it writes – this plan leads to Kosovo's independence, and we cannot accept it, regardless of your courage to say it, it is your party's position, but it is the state's view that it is unacceptable; secondly, this plan has not been confirmed by the Security Council. Thus, in the plan itself, the people who had led the previous negotiations, including the respected professor. Samardzic, there are elements that are positive and can be used to achieve good solutions for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but the whole plan cannot be accepted. Some elements may be the basis for further conversations, and they themselves cannot be acceptable. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, in the north of KIM, cannot get less than they have. I think that's clear. How are we going to come up with a situation where they are provided with all rights? How are we going to get into a situation where they feel secure, that they have their own institutions, Serbian institutions? How are we going to get into a situation to preserve the national interest of the Republic of Serbia? Only a patient active approach through negotiations, addressing the problem of the north in an adequate way through negotiations with the international community and Pristina. Everything else is just that answer – stay at the barricades, but without continuing that sentence. We support a peaceful protest, but we say -- there is an exit, an exit is not easy to find, but believe that we are working on it and doing everything to get an adequate positive solution that will satisfy the interest of the Serbian state, primarily Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, in the north of KIM and that will avoid these scenes that have happened, that someone is shooting at citizens. It's totally unacceptable. There is no excuse for such behavior. So, if anyone thinks, and I believe that many people think here, that there is some way, that the negotiations are microcrisis, fiction, let them explain why they're microcrisy and fiction. Somebody explain what that means - no results. This is a rhetorical question. I think it's very inadequate and unfair, in a situation like we have now, to have a normal legitimate criticism and not all of us should think the same thing, but I think the basic thing, the basic political thing, is that you have some kind of suggestion. You have a proposition. I think the proposal is bad for the interest of the Republic of Serbia. It's bad, if from nothing else, you can't apply that plan to Serbs south of Ibra symmetrically as well as to Serbs north of Iber. Simply, the situation is different, and political and security, if you want ethnic. There are specificities you must consider. Let's put aside the legal argument of that document that I explained. So let's let the citizens know that they are, that we're not going over some really cheap statements and passwords, I'm not telling you specifically, but I think that's the worst thing in this situation. There's nothing easier, there's nothing easier than some opposition leaders to go to the barricade now or visit the wounded and provide support. That's good, and they should do it, but what's out of it? What do we do next, gentlemen? What's the next plan? I would also have the opportunity to look back at the initiative to return to the UN, which is often being chased around as a new and fresh idea by the opposition parties. I can talk about it too, but I'll leave it for later because I'm sure the next MP will explain it nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61592	National MP Bojan Đuric, a statement of response.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61593	Mr. Stefanovic, once again, there is no single opposition here on this issue. So, in the Serbian Parliament on the Kosovo issue for five, six or seven years, you have existed, along with all the other parties who are pushing this policy that has reached the wall today and there is a LDP that has a different policy. So don't explain yourself to them through us, claiming we're part of the same opposition block. I think it took you about 15 minutes to first mention Serbs south of Iber. So you're saying that Ahtisaari's plan is unacceptable because it says it leads to Kosovo's independence, and you keep talking about it as if it's perfectly legitimate for the northern border of Kosovo to be the Ibar River in Kosovo Mitrovica. Is that a concept? If that's the concept, then say so, but don't take cover behind the law, behind the Constitution, behind the fact that Ahtisaari's plan has no legality, at the same time building your tactics on barricades and blockades. There's nothing legal about it. It is also a message for Mr. Cvetkovic, to explain to Mr. Markovic that when he says that the list is a civil matter and fluid, then customs must also be a civil matter and fluids. If it can function on the Merdarama and Conchula with an Albanian or Kosovo customs officer, why can't it go to these other two crossings? Unless it's Serbia's stake in stretching the rope and trying to get as much for itself as possible. It's a legitimate political method, but then you have to tell people and you have to tell them that's why they sacrifice themselves. I only hope that we from the LDP to you and the DS on the Kosovo issue will once be respected by gentlemen and colleagues, as Mr Samardzic has been for several years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61594	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic, and after it will be followed by a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61595	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, you could have expected that there would be a lot of questions about the events in Jarinj, but the composition of the minister is absolutely not responding to the subject. Of course, I have a question about that, but I don't know who else to ask it to anymore. I will appoint him to the government, but the Prime Minister is no longer here. Whether the technical person from the negotiating process will answer that question will be your choice. I don't have a choice. I cannot question Mr Stankovic or Markovic or Djelic about Kosovo. They're not really in charge of what's going on right now. It's a shame. Maybe there's more room for you to break up and bring in the right people so you can give me your word. If you don't, I'll use the word now. It's just that it's not right to discuss these topics with people who aren't in charge of it. I spent a lot of time on this, not for no reason, because this is really inappropriate. This is the relationship of the Assembly's leadership to the Kosovo issue today. We heard from the Prime Minister that the government is ready to request an independent investigation into the UN. She figured that out today, if I understood correctly. You see, things happen that go past the government, like the government is responsible for the arrival of Eulex, quite the opposite of Mr. Cvetkovic's response, which is there, and he simply doesn't know it. Eulex was determined by the Security Council, based on Ban Ki-moon's report, not on any proposal from the Security Council or any member. There are six counts of Serbia in the report and nothing more. There is no plan Ban Ki-munovod six dots. He cheats on the public again, but he doesn't do it consciously, he does it because he doesn't know it exists. The second question is these others who deceive the public, who know that there is no such thing as a six-point document, and they keep saying that. Now it's the KFOR issue. Eulex came in thanks to Serbia, because if Serbia hadn't allowed it, the Security Council wouldn't have accepted the report and EULEX wouldn't have come. It's quite clear. But now it's KFOR, which is now shooting at the population with combat ammunition, killing people. Has KFOR become NATO? That's a question for the government. If he's turned, why does the government keep quiet about it? The government had one good reason to react to this, a decision by the Atlantic Council that KFOR operates at administrative crossings in the forbidden zone regime. So he has the right to fire. Who's the Atlantic Council to give KFOR a mandate, an order or a command? KFOR is formally under UN mandate. Why is KFOR now working under the mandate of the Atlantic Council? It's been going on for a month and a half. It could be expected at any moment that these war dogs at the administrative border would shoot the unprotected population, because it was their mandate given to them by the Atlantic Council. Today, therefore, the President of the Republic of Fog Rasmusenomhode is going to discuss who is responsible for this. Mr. Rasmussen is the Secretary-General of NATO, therefore, of the formations that shot the population. Is he normal? The government made the right move. There's a matter to be put in front of the UN. We'll see how things go further, but your question is -- do you, as Eulex was brought in, now bring NATO here? Why do you keep your mouth shut in front of facts? How come the Naples command gives an explanation of what happened on Jarinj? Of course, with lies, all lies themselves, and no one reacts. You're not bringing NATO here, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61596	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Please, MPs, I listen very carefully. So MP Slobodan Samardzic said he had no one to ask and asked the government and this round of questions was over. (Free Samardzic, from the place: I asked a question, don't say that. People's MP, please sit down. You have asked a question, it will be sent to the government, you have no answer because you do not want an answer from anyone present. (Free Samardzic, from the place: I do not want to sit, I asked the question. You don't have an answer. You do not listen, MP, look at the stenogram, I said – the MP said there is no one to ask, the question sends to the Government in writing. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61597	This is not the first time that by not answering an MP's question, in fact, it has denied the right to use an institution to ask a parliamentary question about a topic. Here, Mr Djelic once did so to me, asking a question from the economy, which was not an adequate answer. We MPs interpret not answering as impatience to the authorities to answer the right questions. I will use my right to ask a parliamentary question not in the way I thought it would be the order, that this topic KiM deserves a special session of the Assembly and that it is discussed in it, and that in the time to ask MPs questions, we ask whether it was necessary to be in charge of Euro bonds at the time when you pay the interest of 7.25%, in such a time of crisis when you have unemployment, etc. Aren't you ashamed that you gave us a budget rebalance this month for the government that was formed in March of the month, and that's what you've been talking about since November? Today I ask something that is most important to all of us, short and clear, does anyone in the world expect to be a cold bloody head? Many warn us that because we do not have to sacrifice, and we are aware of it, the European path and to preserve that perspective, but to preserve the constitutional part of this country and what is not a myth, but my orchard that remains down in Kosovo and the graves of many of us, means, not a myth, does not talk about it, is it possible for this government today, and as it deserves, to face a statement from a diplomat who says -- I really don't know whether this government wants Europe or Kosovo anymore, but I know that they want to stay in power as long as possible and to fight corruption alone? My question is how did this government change its relationship with Kosovo, that since March, when I and my colleagues were at the Interparliamentary Union meeting, we talked about both the candidacy and the date of negotiations, at the same time, as a very certain thing, the situation has changed so that today we are asked to be cold heads, and we have heads that are bloody? What did it do? What's changed? What promise did the government fail to fulfill, and we didn't know? What are you signing today, agreeing, and changing circumstances, which neither the parliament nor the citizens of Serbia know about? I'm not asking you to make it difficult for you in any part of this terrible business. This assembly and MPs want to make your job easier by supporting you to fight for the most difficult issue and the most difficult problem that a genius cannot solve, even if his name is Stefanovic, with the best intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61598	The word is Mirko Cvetkovic, so Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61599	I would comment on the euro bonds, given that I see that this topic is quite heated in public, with many misunderstandings that appear in some sense, even in this assembly. First of all, it should be seen that the classic maintenance of the liquidity of the budget is working through several channels, of which we have so far had three channels. One channel is loans from the so-called. Hiphis or international financial institutions, which lend loans under extremely favourable conditions. I mean, first of all, the World Bank. We, of course, use that channel to the maximum. It is, unfortunately, insufficient and very small, so additional channels must be used through it. The other two channels we've used so far are the borrowings from commercial banks and the bonding channel. Therefore, the issue of perse bonds is not any news that has now happened in particular, the only difference is that the bonds that the state has issued so far have been bonds that have been directed, or issued on the domestic market, and their customers have been banks from domestic markets. Those bonds, I must say, were on a relatively short notice. At first, the deadlines were a month, three months, six months, but a further extension, when we tried to circulate these bonds for three years, it proved that we did not have the opportunity in the country to secure it, because banks do not have long-term sources, or long-term deposits, to be able to finance such a thing. With all this in mind, we have now offered bonds on the European market, we have offered them to investors who have long-term sources and who can enter into far longer deadlines. In particular, this is about a ten-year deadline. So, along with these three channels, we have provided this fourth channel that will allow us to substitute at least two of these channels, if not in general, which is to a significant extent, which is the channels of domestic banks and the sales of taxpayers on the domestic market. What are the benefits of that? The first benefit is, relative to the economy, which will leave our withdrawal from that market to banks more liquidity than those they now have and the economy will find itself in a situation where it can be offered more credit funds, because we will not allow banks to invest in government securities of value as it has been so far. The other thing is that we've positioned ourselves on, to tell the world market, and despite what we've had so far -- trade in goods and services, and now we have a share in that financial traffic. In that context, it's a significant moment for this country. What should also be taken into account in the issue of euro bonds, I said they are within ten years, to give us certain positions on the market. I have no intention of talking about what the offer was, how much demand, you had the chance to hear it, but it certainly is to enrich the channel for financing the current activity and liquidity of the budget. I think it will also allow the new government to wait much more calmly and to function in the next period. On the other hand, complaints or criticism that this is about a new debt and that the debt suddenly exceeded some percentages etc., that seems to be true and formally, but essentially not, for the following reasons: you basically, when you talk about debt, you can look at gross and net debt. What's this about? If you take an example of an individual man, if a man raises a 100-euro loan in one bank, then puts it on savings in another, and you ask him how much he is in charge, he is formally in debt of 100 euros, but since the 100 euros he has not spent, he is holding them in a deposit, then he is defacto and has no debts, there is no increase in debt. The money we have won will not be spent or will be spent in a succession that will cross over to the next year, and in that context, the story of a sudden increase in debt is one complete, to say the inaccuracy and inaccuracy of those who launch this story. Indeed not only do I not see the problem of introducing channel diversification, in providing additional funds for the economy, in that we have positioned ourselves on the European market, on the contrary, I see only the positive elements of all this. Finally, it should be borne in mind that, literally, all developed countries use this channel very intensely, and unfortunately for us, we only did it this year, and all the countries around have euro bonds already issued a year or two days ago. It's an entirely regular activity with these purposes I mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61600	Borko Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61601	I'm very sorry that we had that scene a little while ago when the MP gave a bunch of findings and questions without telling them... (President: Mr Stefanovic, it's a little early, and now if you have a chance to respond to the MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, answer, otherwise it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I don't know him enough, that's why I'm wrong. The fact is that there has been no change in the policy Mrs Tabakovic mentioned, although I must thank you for clearly understanding the weight of this moment. I wish that level of understanding were permeated in all segments of your party. The fact is that neither Serbia can give up on the European path nor can give up on Kosovo. Both are very important for the survival and future of this country and this people. The thing is very simple: if Serbia only isolates itself, you lose every opportunity to defend your interests at KIM and defend Serbs on KIM and open the front, create new enemies, limit your market, reduce your economy, reduce investment and everything you know well. On the other hand, if Serbia gives up its constitution, its rights, to protect its citizens in KIM and preserve the state and its interests, then no sacred goal nor future can replace it. This policy is very complicated, it is difficult to achieve, but, unfortunately or fortunately, it is only possible. Everyone who drags genders to the opposite sides doesn't realize it's tearing the future of this country apart. I don't think it's true that we gave up that policy. The policy faces criticism and pressures, but it must continue because the alternative to this policy is to choose one or the other. Selecting one or the other means giving up either the future of your citizens or giving up your vital national interests. I don't think we have any alternative policy. We have an alternative policy, but I don't think we have a good policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61602	Thank you. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, three minutes, additional question or comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61603	Mr. Cvetkovic, we'll talk about borrowing when the budget is rebalanced, and what you're saying now, we all listened very carefully when you were visiting B92 and we're very careful what the Prime Minister says. I just said that in the context of the Kosovo issue, it still comes second. Mr. Stefanovic, support is not required by prosecution. I have no intention of giving you, and I can, you're a younger man, I give you advice. When you expect support from someone, you need to be constructive and tolerant, but in this situation and in every situation of this kind, you know exactly what the job of the government is, what the job of the opposition is. It's not the opposition's job to give you advice, and to be the government, to present yourself as such, you have all the privileges, but also the problems that go with it. You of the opposition need to get support, and we are unique in giving you support for one of the next solutions. That's my question for you. Is it true that the state of Serbia and you as authorities should insist that both NATO and the EU act outside their mandates within the UN? Is this the way that it's supposed to mean that we're not gonna lose each other? Can you, in the context of such a kind of insistence, in a dictionary where we will not reject investors or those who support us, respect all others, but above all the opposition we need for a unique approach, to find practical ways to support Kosovo Serbs, but not only verbally, to get that support from others, to be problematic? Let's all give support in the same way that it won't be - Albanians won the state by war and should have two Albanian states in Europe, and we should be patient and calmly watching down there afraid of spending the night. So, if human rights were individually at the moment of NATO aggression to become more important than the state of the nation, and what is the question today? What about today's individual right of every Serb to be able to move and live normal? I know you know all these arguments, I know you're well-read and ready to do it, but your strongest strength to vote for it is unity in the state you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61604	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Borislav Stevanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61605	Thank you. You're absolutely right that the opposition's unity is necessary and needs to do its job, government of its own. I think the legitimate right of the government in difficult times for the state to seek a constructive position of the opposition that is depicted in concrete proposals. I don't see what's the problem? Unity cannot only be created on one side by supporting power, or on the other hand full of passivity. I mean, if it were completely legitimate to say that it was easier to agree through what would be a common relationship that you mentioned earlier, I think. Yeah, we insist on all the international forums in all the capitals on what you said. So insisting is lobbying to show the real state of things in Kosovo. What really happened there, the day before yesterday? Yes, what we do every day, however, is a sufficient condition, but I want to say it's a condition of normal diplomatic activity, but it's not enough. We can't just stay on it. That's why we can't just finish all our activities by telling everyone that it's inadmissible and that it's outside the scope of the mandate, etc. The practical way to support Kosovo Serbs is not only in parallels and support to persist in peaceful protests. They are very tangible, first of all, through the functioning of the economy, through the functioning of our institutions which, with the inflow of budget funds and everything that happens every day, even in difficult conditions. I'm sure the Minister of Health would probably have and what to say, what does it mean to provide full supply of drugs and medical material, but there are other things, how to secure salaries, how to ensure people normal incomes to stay in that space, and nobody's talking about the problems of the repromation that our companies operating in northern Kosovo need to get, and how do you say, steel or woodwork in northern Kosovo, if you have a full block of all roads? It's just Merder and Concur. We have full trade liberalisation, full liberalisation of trade in goods, no one's talking about it. It's essential for the survival of these people, they have to have jobs, they have to stay there, they have to have their institutions. It is not peaceful enough to resist what Pristina wants, you must ensure that they remain there, in that sense I fully agree with you and thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61606	National MP Jorvanka Tabaković, two minutes to comment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61607	You called me, I just didn't mean to answer, but perhaps the most important thing is that you said in the end, Kosovo should work. You know, I know a lot about what a repromation needs, I've been involved in creating this pheronical and financing, and at the time of the sanctions we knew that we were operating by changing tables, exporting from "Orvine" and "Kosovo's Wine" and Orahovac and Boeing, etc. It hurts me, maybe even as someone, I'll never say more than the other one, but all of us, but the government more than the opposition accuses today's statement by one of the arrested and released drivers, one of those trucks that says - they all used us. Why does this people feel used? The benefits of both power and opposition, used by us and Pristina, they feel left behind by international organisations that propagate human rights, feel left behind by their own country. I am convinced that no man in Serbia is in the way of him alone, from what is called the future of all of us. It's up to you to pick it up and find the strongest strength. There is no Serb, from a Serbian citizen who will refuse you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61608	The word has the People's MP Boris Alexic, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, I ask you a specific question. What will the government of the Republic of Serbia do if KFOR, NATO Pact, the United States attacks Serbian barricades in northern Kosovo and Metohija? Do you know, Mr. Cvetkovic, that U.S. Army and NATO pact, they shot unarmed Serbs on the cross-country this year, that they were shot in the back, that they had a large number of wounded, that it was a miracle that no one was killed? Do you know, Mr Cvetkovic, that surviving citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs, are crying for your help? To watch Belgrade and wonder what you're going to do? Are you just going to sit there and talk about repromation and economic issues while they're being killed, while the Americans are shooting at them or are you going to do something concrete to protect them? Do you know, Mr Cvetkovic, that last night around 20.00 hours of the German KFOR unit in the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica have produced a new contingent of forces and technical means to destroy barricades? The German troops have strengthened their forces with special armored vehicles to break through barricades so-called. ropes, armored vehicles with stakes, water cannons and different technical means. Do you know that the Americans have been further armed with combat ammunition? The chargers first prepare to attack the barricade at the bridge on Ibra, then take over the court building in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, etc. The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija are jeopardising the occupation force by brutal violence and violation of Resolution 1244. In this situation, instead of turning to Russia, instead of turning to our traditional friends, instead of implementing Resolution 1244 to the end, you are turning to Robert Hooper who wrote the book "The Breaking of the States", you are turning to the United States of Serbia, which they have been shooting at, they call a mob. They say it's a Serb mob and they're telling you they're going to shoot Serbs again. You don't want to fight, no problem, go to Mr. Cvetkovic with the ministers in Kosovo to the barricades, call the MPs, our MPs are already down there. There is Zoran Krasic, vice president of the party, there is Bozidar Delic, there is Ljuba Kragovic, there are others, every day there are people. Let's go too, let Boris Tadic go, see if the NATO pact is going to shoot at you. There's a solution you don't have to fight, gentlemen. Call Russia to send a mission to Kosovo and Metohija, make a deal with them, and don't tell the Americans that you will reject any proposal from Russia. Russia's foreign ministry issued a statement, officially about the aggression in northern Kosovo today, do not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61610	Three minutes. Thank you. Is the word looking for Mr. Cvetkovic? The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61611	I listened with attention to your speech that was quite emotional and, of course, I share certain emotions about the problem these people are facing down there. Of course, all the options were about some consideration, but in the end, what I can say is that the government policy, that we can't conflict, or call on some third countries to come, to defend us, etc. It is already our policy to solve the problem with dialogue, as you have heard with one resistance, the peaceful resistance we are trying and so far we are successful in doing so, we are realising in Kosovo. On the question of going to Kosovo, I would be the first of those to leave, who would believe that it helped, and at the same time I have to say that our government is already present in Kosovo, our minister is not here with us for that reason, he is down there. We're in constant contact and regular session, so to speak, so we have information about what's going on and that we can react in case there are any problems. At the same time, we also had Borko Stefanovic, who was with Goran. He's here with us today for yesterday's trip to Brussels and again to solve this problem. So our policy is dialogue, our policy is diplomatic means, our policy is conversation, our policy is the United Nations, our policy is all we can do without including entering war conflicts. By the way, some other policy has also provoked war conflicts and we all know what the effect of that other policy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61612	National MP Boris Aleksic, three minutes, supplemental question or comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61613	Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm not happy with your answer. First of all, let me explain something to you, time is measured for hours. Time is ticking, counting to the moment when the United States and its terrorists will attack the Serbs again on KIM. So if you're ready to go to KIM, now's the time. Secondly, as for calling some other missions, you called on Eulex, you called on Western countries, and you forgot Russia. That's the problem, Mr. Cvetkovic. Your policy is not dialogue, Mr. Cvetkovic. Fortunately, we have the U.S. Government's file ahead of us. Their late 28th September 2006, protected as confidential, classified as a confidential ambassador Michael Polt, talks about a meeting of the president of the Republic, Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and Branko Raduka with US representatives. Boris Tadic said on that occasion that he is ready to accept Kosovo's loss if it is properly presented to the electoral body. You've got that dispatch. I can deliver it to you. You cheat on the public all the time, just like in the same 2008 dispatch, it says to your SNS partners that they are ready to accept the division of Kosovo. It's a 24 December 2008 dispatch. It's U.S. government files. Mr. Cvetkovic, why are you lying to us? Why are you cheating on us? Why are you cheating on us? One story from Boris Tadic to the Americans, and you're telling us another here. In Parliament, it's a whole different story, and when you go to the Americans, something that's unimaginable. Your mandate is to help the Americans master the entire KIM territory. When you spoke of some others who caused war, so they caused war because they committed a crime against peace, the most serious crime under international law. Why don't you talk about it? Ask your lawyers for it, it was the court's jurisdiction in Ninberg, but it is not the jurisdiction of the UN tribunal, Mr Cvetkovic. Why do you think? Because the blood trail leads to Washington, leads to London, leads to Paris, leads to Brussels. They decided to break up the SFRY to achieve their strategic goals. Today, Serbs suffer the consequences of this policy. Answer me specifically – how will you protect the citizens of Serbia in KIM at the moment when it is known that the aggressor will re-emerge against them?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61614	I ask the MPs to ask the question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So the additional question is complementary because it's different from the question asked in case you get rights for three minutes. I also ask you not to throw away, since the time for asking parliamentary questions implies that there are no replicas and that there is no request for words for violations of the Rules of Procedure, but does not mean that there is no sentence for breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that we understand that the additional question means a question different from that which has been asked as a basic question. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61615	Given that the question is essentially identical and that I gave the answer, I would just refer to the comment that concerns our president. It is in this case that you can see how many of these dispatches published by Wikilix are inaccurate in some parts and perhaps something is misunderstood, because we have no difference in performance compared to Kosovo. There is no difference between the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all officials. If what you say were true, there would be a split, but as you can see, we function as one team and as one team with the same attitudes we come out. In all these segments where I said we fight, so you can be calm. There's no difference, there's no lie, it's just like we publicly declare here and at any of our shows. One more thing to say, all our activities have just been directed so that what you're afraid of doesn't happen. So we are trying precisely to promote these funds that we have to ensure there is no more shooting, no more acts of violence, and that is also the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the complete political leadership of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61616	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic, two minutes to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61617	Mr. Cvetkovic, you're still talking about some measures, and you're not talking about exactly what measures you're taking to protect the Serbs in KIM, you're still easing the fact, you're not going to go over your mouth, you're not going to condemn the NATO Pact and the EU that shot at Serbian citizens, you called it a mob, U.S. officials, and before that they lied about shooting with rubber bullets, so when they showed those bloody pictures that your media didn't want to publish, then the public realized something was happening. So it is interesting what measures you are applying to respond to such a challenge, as Serbia's biggest security challenge is currently the NATO Pact and the EU. They are headed for Serbia, they are headed for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as these dumplings are concerned, I can give you these dumplings, you can officially find them on their website. They're very authentic. It's not just about President Tadic, and other senior DS officials, such as Djilas, such as Vuk Jeremic, some other people have been saying, too, in that direction. There are a number of gaps that testify to this very specifically, because the Americans, while you, as their CI, spoke to them about everything and everything, and with you and others, they kept a close record of it. They probably filmed everything, so that's why they wrote it down. On the other hand, look at what a Russian representative of the NATO Pact, Rogozin, says. He says NATO is causing a new conflict in the Balkans. Why can't you say that, why can't you say that against the NATO Pact and the EU? Why don't you cancel a SOFA agreement that allows the U.S. military to walk through Serbia's territory and supply its troops to KIM, occupied by KIM. The agreement can be cancelled within 15 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61618	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61619	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I belong to DS, and as a member of the DS, I have a sense of responsibility, not only as a member of the KIM Committee, but also as a man, I have a responsibility to the people of KIM, so I would ask Mr. Zoran Stankovic if we can get a report on what condition they are injured in KIM, what their injuries are, where they are located, how they feel, if they need additional healthcare, whether there are options if they need to be transferred to some hospital in Belgrade for further treatment, whether there is a need for such treatment and if there is a need, how these people will be transported in view of the situation at KIM. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't read American dispatches, but I spent time in this room and in this assembly reading stenographic notes and in stenographic notes I read a sentence- if a NATO boot steps on KIM, we're going to pull out of politics for life. That's what I've heard from the people who are making the most of you here. I have heard that sentence many times, so please, as Prime Minister, when such politicians who are directly responsible for releasing KFOR KIM in 1999 and allowing the port of the High Decana to turn into a parking lot for NATO tanks, to ask them – excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which you offer alternatives here? What are these alternatives? What resources will we defeat the NATO Pact? If you had those resources back in 1999, why didn't you use them then? Also, I have a question for you to ask them a question – excuse me, before you address the citizens of Serbia, by calling and hitting war drums, tell the citizens of Serbia where your war schedule is, and please, say what alternative policy methods you have? And I would like to ask Mr. Stankovic's reply regarding the injured Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61620	Minister Stankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61621	Mr Milivojevic, honourable MPs, during yesterday's day in the Kosovo Mitrovica area, in fact, in the area of the crossings spoken here, a total of 118 Serbs were injured. Of which, six were wounded by combat ammunition and they were admitted and taken care of at the Health Centre of Kosovo Mitrovica. One with severe eye injuries was admitted to the eye department, which I was already talking about, so he was the driver of the sanity vehicle. Of the others, 19 were injured by rubber bullets, and 92 of the tear gasses were also shown help on the ground or in the House of Health Leposavic. From the moment the first shots echoed at the crossings, we were in contact, as well as in the previous period, with the directors of the health and health care centers. They have sufficient amounts of blood, drugs and sanity material, certain needs they had, such as tetabulin and some blood derivatives are under way yesterday, i.e. Today, transferred to Mitrovica, certain medicines requested by the House of Health in Gracanica were also prepared during the day and will be transferred to the House of Health in Gracanica, in accordance with the agreement reached with the World Health Organization and the International Committee of the Red Cross. We're on a daily basis with the directors and the people who care about the medical condition of the injured. So far, there is no need for any person to be transferred to a health care facility in Serbia, and if needed, then we have agreed on the routes of transport and care in Serbia's health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61622	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61623	Mr. Minister, I thank you for these very exhausting answers through which you have truly shown real life care for the fate of these people. I think it's very good that all reserves are provided necessary for health centres in these institutions and institutions, alternative transport methods. Also, I think that for every commendation, the speed of the reaction of the state authorities is, but in any case, since in this room we attend a constant attempt that those who have made the problem now would want to solve the problem. I think of those who said in 1999 – if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, we will withdraw from politics. I think that, in line with the development of the situation, I would ask that you and Mr. Stefanovic inform us, are there any opportunities for the Assembly Committee on Kim to visit all people who are injured? I pray those who have stated that if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo that I am not disturbed as I speak, because I understand your shame and guilt over what is happening in Kosovo. But if you can't talk me out of it, you can keep your mouth shut. So, I'd like to ask, is there any possibility that members of the KiM Committee can visit the injured at the KIM hospital as a congregation delegation? Would that visit make it easier or difficult for any possible situation down there? Do we, as the Serbian Parliament, need to take steps to arrange for us to send humanitarian aid to the KIM? Also, I have a question and clarification, I ask for clarification, as I often hear them speaking to me here - your Prime Minister, your minister. I think this is the President of the Government of all MPs in the Serbian Parliament, that Ivica Dacic and Mr Zoran Stankovic and Mr Bozidar Djelic, ministers of all citizens of this country, and if anyone says - your minister, then I expect you, Mr. Prime Minister, to ask you - excuse me - who is your Prime Minister and who is your minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61624	Here you go, Mr. President. Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61625	I will briefly refer to a set of questions that you propose to ask the MPs and these questions are indeed on my menu, but unfortunately, I understand that this is a forum where MPs ask us questions rather than the other way around. If the counter forum is made, I will be happy to participate in it and ask this and many other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61626	No further comments. Thank you. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61627	My question was first and foremost addressed to the prime minister. So why aren't those ministers present at today's session who would have to answer questions about the KIM situation? First of all, I mean the Secretary of Defense and the Minister of Police. The second question, why is the government not in a permanent session, given the circumstances? The third question is, did you manage to find out in the meantime which six points were based on which, practically, Eulex entered Kosovo, thanks to Serbia? Who's the signator of this agreement that doesn't have the character of the legal document? Who will bear the responsibility and consequences for accepting Eulex, all other independent implementers, and above all, Mr Cvetkovic, and do not let any technical person from the Government and Mr Negotiator suit me, I ask you – does the government think that EULEX should leave Kosovo? What we have seen is that it is a harsh lie, as both NATO and Euelsk are status neutral, because they use all the means and all the force to practically establish an independent state of Kosovo. Are you ready, at last, to make a decision that Eulex will leave Kosovo? I have more questions for you, and they are related to the presentation of Mr. former KIM Minister, DSS MP Slobodan Samardzic, because you went out at the moment, he asked you – did that turn KFOR into NATO? Why does KFOR work under the mandate of the Atlantic Council? Instead of answering, there was a group of injuries to the Rules of Procedure and the DSS MPs came out, because the government was allegedly not asked a question. I now use this question as a People's MP to repeat it to you and to have you personally answer me. Besides, as far as the Secretary of Defense is concerned, it's a public secret that he's hiding these days. It hides because the day before the barricades were destroyed and the armed attack on Serbs in Jarinj, he gave the following statement – it should enable international forces to move across the province. This was practically an introduction to activities that NATO forces were working on in Kosovo. Immediately after the armed attack on Serbs, the EU says barricades limit freedom of movement and must be removed. After these sentences and the apparent similarities of the occupation forces and the very important minister, the defence minister in your government, will resign and will you ask him to do so?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61628	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61629	There were a lot of questions, I don't know if I wrote them all down. I'd like to start with this first one - why aren't all the ministers present? I have to tell you, this isn't a call sent to me, and then I'm taking with me as many or as many ministers, but vice versa. This is the obligation of each individual prime minister and ministers and those not present, they were to justify themselves, but not to me, but to justify the Assembly. I don't know why any of them didn't come. That's probably the kind of information that exists. So this is an individual call for everyone, not that I'm in charge of them individually. As for six points, I'm looking right now and I'm going to get exactly as it says in this document. Otherwise, they refer to the judiciary, to the rule of law, of course, to status neutrality, which you have called for, too, and customs, etc. But since I see that you are interested, you have not come to that information, although it has been known for a long time, I have asked, so they will dictate and send it to me during this session, to read it to you. As for the issues of status neutrality and exiting from the framework of status neutrality, both KFOR and Eulexas, we have also asked this as a question in our addresses, and this is one of our demands both to EULEX and KFOR, that they must stick to Resolution 1244 and later to the Security Council's decision, regarding Eulex, and in one case and another, it is about the obligation of status neutrality and wherever we see or believe that this status neutrality has been violated, then we react to it. The issue about KFOR and why it came as it is, why it is related to NATO, whether it is NATO, is NATO, etc., is a question which is fundamentally a question related to the document that de facto did not allow, but defined KFOR's arrival, which is Resolution 1244 and in that resolution defined KFOR and the way it should behave on the ground. I believe, since you have longer political experience than I do, I suppose you know better, since that document was brought before I entered politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61630	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, again, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61631	As far as I can understand it, Mr. Prime Minister, you don't in one case run the government, everyone gets a call, and you have nothing to do with whether or not they will respond to that call. In the second case, again, they must prepare the text of a document that you do not know how to respond and it is quite embarrassing, frankly, gleaning, that in the Serbian Parliament, the Prime Minister of Government does not know what the government and what six points it has accepted and that it has so quietly let Eulex enter the KIM territory somewhere. But it's not just your ignorance. You say Resolution 1244 regulated KFOR presence. Yes, but that KFOR is then under the auspices of the UN, not the Atlantic Council. So you don't know that either. Now, since you didn't know this, I have the next question, for you, and of course for the health minister, because it's really a matter of mental health in Serbia to say it now. Is it normal and does it belong to something that is a Serbian tradition, is it even within the code of some civil, human rights to create "a parade of pride" as Kosovo burns? What will you do as Prime Minister to come, not to a ban, but to a failure to maintain such a parade in a situation where our southern province burns? Is it normal that when a member of your family is sick, you're making a wedding? No one in their right mind would do that. Mr. Cvetkovic, the government has the power to make some kind of decision and to have some kind of attitude, not to constantly argue with the MUP. Otherwise, the interior minister is not there, but probably voices from the police union, which says the situation should be prevented, that as long as we have Kosovo, while people are bleeding down there, we are just missing another Serbian-Serbian conflict here. Why? Do you care more about white-world gays, God forgive me, because that's the word? Could you have considered making that gay parade in Pristina with Thaci headed?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61632	The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61633	I have to comment on whether you didn't understand me, probably. I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure and the papers that the Government did not bring, but this assembly and these papers, it's clearly said that the obligation to come is individual. So it's not my choice whether I call or not. It's actually about each individual calling. We represent the government here, but everyone is responsible for their resources. Of course, they all come, unless someone is prevented, about which, as I said, they deliver their apologies. As for the pride parade, I just want to do it again next. Since there was speculation about today's government, whether there was an examination, there was no etc. There was no question discussed in the government today, but I don't remember whether there was ever any question in the government that some people wanted to demonstrate. It's usually directed to the police. On the basis of a risk assessment, the police decide whether it is safe or not, and they are likely to have a position on the matter in that context. What is the government's position as a whole, as well as individuals, including the interior minister, is that it is not disputed that the Constitution of this country must be respected, that everyone has the right to vary and that we support diversity. The second question now is whether a security assessment will now show that it is too risky or not, etc., so a decision will be made in one direction or another, but certainly that does not present any particular problem for me to say that I respect the difference, that I respect the Constitution and that every body is obliged to make appropriate decisions within its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61634	Thank you. Mr. Health Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61635	I can give one to your question, i.e. two answers. As far as I know, the government doesn't organize "a parade of pride," it's organized by the gay population. On the other hand, when it comes to me or when it comes to the Ministry of Health and when it comes to people in Kosovo and everything that is going on in Kosovo, I can tell you that we have organised a twenty-four-hour preparedness of the Ministry of Health and we are on daily communication with people who are in Kosovo and who run health institutions and so will be in the coming period and at a time when the gay parade is held. We are currently facing this problem. I can say I can also see someone making weddings, but now it's the decision of each and every one of us how we behave. In particular, I can say that the health system is ready to help people in Kosovo at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61636	Thank you. Mrs. Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61637	Thank you, Mr. Stankovic. As far as I could understand the Prime Minister, we respect the Constitution in part. Freedom of movement has been provided in Serbia by gays, but not our countrymen in our southern province, as far as I could understand. At this point, I feel here for the first time as I felt his Excellency of the Ambassador of Russia at that Belgrade Security Forum, only I didn't talk to you – Mr. Vejvoda, but – Mr. Cvetkovic. Indeed, I have a question for you – is there a Serb here, is there a Serbian government among you?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61638	I'm sorry, Mr. Prime Minister can't answer the Rules of Procedure's question, because this was supposed to be just a comment. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61639	I have to say, no matter what, unlike the government, we live with the citizens of this country, I have to share my impression with you, so you accept it or not, insult us or not, it doesn't matter to us. There are many different countries, Mr. Prime Minister, where we live and where you live. This country is so different today that it is painful to listen to your unblemished answers, and to try to play a game where you communicate with the ruling coalition and give some prepared reports in which you insult the MPs of the opposition, as well as with your behaviour. It's so painful, I'm sure it'll come back to you, as I've been sure many times before, for many previous governments. You are neither the first nor the last in which we are the opposition. People in Serbia today live in one stress. It's funny to you all, it was funny to your coalition partners, the SPS, in September 2000, that's a lot of fun, and then? Maybe you should think about what happens after today. My neighbours in Belgrade are today to wake up and not buy newspapers because they don't know what's going to happen on the front page – is there a burning border crossing that isn't there, is it getting ready for Sunday chaos, under the slogan "No Stone, but Fire", whether the children who came here, "The Joy of Europe", which is due on Sunday at 1200 hours to gather in the Republic Square to go to Calemegdan, will they be alive that trip of 300 metres? People don't have money, it's completely imperceptible. And that bubble of lies, which you keep building, may be enough for you to fit into it, but this country, although not very big, is big enough that your fake balloon can't cover all of us. Now I'm going to ask you one specific question, so you call me a traitor, as your government official, not a respected professor or as this other party that you agree with and who you're messing with a coalition that will be interested in following the next election, but that will be voted by all Serbian citizens and not me, tell me why you're in charge of a billion dollars and whether this debt is a direct consequence of the decentralisation Act, of the false decentralisation that you adopted here three months ago and who left such a hole in the budget that you can't cover it from current incomes? Answer me if the plan to spend that money will be known to us before or will the government do so in their hallways as part of their election campaign?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61640	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61641	Before I answer, I'd like to take a different order to understand what this is all about. Because despite the fact that some things are often explained, they remain unclear. So the cost of money is tied to the budget. The budget is being adopted by the Assembly. This government, or any other government, unless it violates regulations, cannot spend more than it says in the budget. Therefore, no additional money exists. I can also have a billion euros in additional, which I will have to keep in the account if this assembly does not allow me to spend for some purposes, and that spending and those purposes are defined by the budget. Therefore, some speculation that these are now some money for special purposes, for nationalisation, for pre-election campaigns, etc., not only are they not true, but they are pointless. This task is an assignment to be used for the same things to be used for and current duties. I explained what channels exist and how they are used. Perhaps the mental problem with some people is that we are able to go, when it comes to some small daily amounts, to withdraw less funds through domestic bonds, but you cannot go to the euro market and say – I want to issue euro bonds worth $500,000 or euros. It's just that it's not like that, and you have to go to a large amount, to hire and interest big partners, and then that amount, of course, will not be spent or spent in this calendar year, but, as I said, will be left to some future government and for the next period. So there's no talking about spending outside the budget, there's no talking about spending for any specific purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61642	National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61643	I have to comment on this answer first, and then ask you one more question. So that's exactly what scared us, that you're going to spend that billion as much as this money so far. You didn't take the final bill. This congregation didn't adopt him. What it says in the budget, the budget says that you're spending money on 27 ministries right now. How much do you have? So you're proposing rebalancing for October 11th. I tell you, it's too late. Your government will exist in the opinion of the European Commission, which comes on 12 October. After that, whether we, Mr. Stefanovic, betrayers or be stupid, so we don't understand the budget, you'll have a very difficult time after that, and you'll be looking for a foothold in those you call traitors today. It only says that you are traitors, not us. Let me tell you one more thing. This expense that you say is adopted by this assembly, not adopted by the Assembly, adopted by the ruling majority, and by sending it to us late, we are unable to examine it, no argument has been heard, and no amendment has ever been accepted. So, just your own, because you write that budget so hasty that you have to submit the amendments to it. The second question - why did you charge yourself in such a way, whatever you call it, bonds, one way or another, under such unfavourable conditions? Let me tell you one thing, or a few things. The town of Novi Sad, the town of Serbia, is located in Vojvodina, issued bonds, on bond emissions at 12 years at a price of 6.25% for the euro. It's you, your price is 7.20 for the dollar. Countries similar to us, for example Croatia received an interest rate of 6.38, even better past Turkey, which received 5.63. These are countries like us. We're not talking about Great Britain, France, Germany. Or do you want other countries? Indonesia – it will pay the interest of 4.86. Philippines - 4%. I ask you - what was your interest in putting yourself in charge of 7.20 to forgive the debts of public enterprises run by the directors you have set up without any competitions, so these debts are now a billion euros? Since we're paralleling two laws next week, one rebalance is in the budget that you're in charge of, and you won't tell us why, and the other is to forgive you for the debts you've made over the past four years, also not wanting to tell us why, because you have 126. We'll see about that Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61644	The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61645	I think it might be good for us to see each other individually, so let me explain in detail, because I see that you have information that shows a significant degree of misunderstanding. First, I want to say about the table you read in the paper, where similar countries are shown, I don't know by what similar, whether by size or by rating, I can tell you that the table is completely incorrect, that I've been responding to the paper from the cabinet and saying that they can write incorrect things. Croatia, as much as it seems to us one way or another, is a country that has a rating of three times B, so B B B B, and that we are a country that has a rating of BB. Therefore, there can be no reference to the same credit ratings, thus neither to the same interest rate. On the other hand, don't you think that big investors, among other things, when it's determined, on the one hand, and the country's ratings and when it's decided whose bonds you're going to buy, that they're looking at and asking about political stability? Doesn't it also occur to you that at this session we spent half the time on the question of our southern province and the question of whether war will break out there or in peace we'll do it all? And now connect it to the political stability and the image of political stability that was sent from this space, so you'll see that this is not about countries similar, but countries different, so go find countries with BB, as we have BB and then compare these figures. On the other hand, the interest rate issue – of course, we could have borrowed from commercial banks with a rate that would be less than 7% and then deprive the economy of opportunities, i.e. banks rub their hands and buy government bonds that are at risk of zero, instead of putting them in a position to open their credit potentials for the economy. That's the price this country wants and has to pay, if we want to raise the economy, and not that, in the general liquidity situation, it pulls all the money out of the market and then it leaves the economy, which is cramping anyway, as inequitable. This assignment, as much as it seems to you, is related to the new budget, the answer is that it's not true. This debt has already been foreseen in the budget that is now in force and is expected to buy bonds and is even given the amount, but I don't know how interested you were at the time when it was discussed here to read it. As for public enterprises and the billions that the state has written off, which they have made, it is also one misinformation that is first released in some newspapers, and then slowly becomes true. It's basically the following: So, old Yugoslavia, at the end of the 1990s, meaning up to 20 and a few years ago, she pulled money through the London and Paris Club and that money, through banks that went bankrupt, invested in the economy, then all the companies were state-owned. After democratic changes in 2000, when we set out to negotiate with that club, we received a 67% discount, one third of that debt was accepted and the state calculated the debt and regularly serviced it to these two clubs that I was talking about. So that debt is already in our balance sheet, and when you look at the debt and when we talk about those money, about what we pay off, it's already inside. However, this was not carried out in books of these companies that remained in debt to that old amount that was still doubled or tripplied on the basis of interest that was allegedly increasing, and these are debts that, as I say, date back to 20 and a few years ago. Now this law has no other purpose but to adapt the real state to accounting and clean up the balances of these companies, not to give them anything, anything, and in particular to further debt and increase its public debt. So that's the truth about this famous law that talks about new responsibilities and helps public enterprises. Now I've heard from you that it's happened in the last four years. No, 22 years ago at least, and many 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61646	The MP Ivan Andric has the right to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61647	Let me tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, it's very logical that when a traitor is a traitor, he's also stupid, which I now understand from you. It's your right to think of us whatever you want, believe that we feel the same way about you. I have to tell you that you need to worry and that instead of talking like that to some deer who basically has a fake smile, I think you should seriously worry when the only round of applause from your majority MPs, which you can get, is when you prove that you're the prime minister of the worst country in the world. It's very strange, this enthusiasm that the ruling majority shows, so strange that we can wonder if it's your goal, if you consider it your success. You've listed some things, and I'm going to tell you directly your responsibility, which is also published by that same journal you own, and it's called "Politicals", it's state-owned, it's written by your government, you're setting up a director, an editor. You've been getting a lower grade for the third year than you did in 2008 on something called competitiveness. You're the prime minister of the country, now I expect a round of applause, which is 95 out of 142 places. It's not a small success. When you took over she was 85, today she's at 95. You still have six, seven months of chances of climbing it maybe up to 100 places. I don't know what the target is. At the level of institution development, you are the prime minister of the country in 120 places. Serbia's segment of the functioning of the goods and services market – 139 and 137 according to the effects of the anti-monopol policies. So it's not just the people in Kosovo who you've explained to us now that because they're at barricades, that that's why this country's credit rating is low, but it depends on your unhappiness and your lack of plan, except that you spend all the money you've put in your place, and for these 100 billion, which you hope for, so it's subliminal, I really want you to get it from your heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61648	National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to continue about where the previous MP has continued. This data he's provided is familiar. Since October 2008, I have been saying that this is the most incompetent government in Serbia's history and, unfortunately, it has been going on for so long and it has been proven from day to day. You said you wished we hadn't seen each other in a long time. To tell you the truth, I didn't ask for you as an MP. My wish would be that the sooner that government goes, because I wouldn't smile like that. It has lost the job of 250,000 people since you are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and it is announced that another 100,000 will be in the next year. It was 8.5 billion foreign debt, state debt, and we can no longer capture which, where the economy, where the citizens and the rest are, at a time when you took over the government. In addition to this data provided by Mr. Andric, today the governor says we are 14 billion in debt, and it is said that we will be obliged, at a time when you plan to hold elections, 15 billion euros. I'm talking about the state again, I'm not talking about the economy, the citizens, etc. Never in the history of mankind, from the origin of the original human community to today, has it happened that any tribe, nation, nation, nation, state defended or realised its tribal, national, national, state interest with a broken economy, whatever economy it was at that moment. You have completely destroyed Serbia's economy. The fingers of one hand can be listed by successful companies that work, which do, and hardly, given that they should not be monopolies to successfully commit and work. More and more companies are shutting down in Serbia, and on independent shops and trades, I don't want to talk. And then you talk now about how and how we will defend our national interest, our state interest and what it says in the Constitution, i.e. our Kosovo and the Metohija. Let me ask you, since you're the first man to run this country's politics, the government is leading politics, not the president and the government is running the state, let me ask you, I don't understand, for all this time I've heard, I hope that from you, Mr Cvetkovic, I will get an answer – what is a red line that we won't allow or which will not be crossed? What is it in your policy that a red line that Serbia can give in, that it cannot cross?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61650	There were no questions. ... What do you mean, it's not? I asked a question for the red line. Now you're at the end - the red line. Okay. Red line but in the fourth minute. ... It's political... I'm interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61653	So the red line is to ensure that at the same time it does not give up European integration and that it does not give up fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. It's a red line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61654	Mr. Shormaz, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61655	Now you've said everything, really. So it continues as the 2008 campaign – both Europe and Kosovo. I'm asking you, what's the red line? So he doesn't give up fighting for Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you, sir. I'll stay. This does not mean that for Kosovo to remain in place but rather not give up the fight, and we can also fight to join the EU. As things stand, the date will certainly not be won, perhaps only status, which is irrelevant for the citizens of Serbia, will continue to lose their jobs, and will continue to have incompetence because they have the most incompetent government you run. But is the red line when NATO shoots our citizens? What do you mean, where's the limit? So I'm asking you specifically -- how long are we going to put up with, what is this line we're going to take, where is that where we're going to say some things? You know, here's the health minister really well explained what the health ministry is doing, what's being prepared, how it helped our people down there, how much it's prepared and everything. I'm asking you, what's the Serbian Army doing, what's the police doing? If you can't answer because the cameras are on, turn off the cameras, but you're required to tell the MPs. This is the people's will. The national will isn't in studio B 92 or RTS. So you have a duty to the chosen people to say, "You are a common servant, a servant." Here you are elected and here you are obliged to say - there is no minister of police, there is no minister of the army, there is no one to whom we can specifically ask these questions. Half the ministers in parliament chew gum when it comes. Only two ministers came last time to ask questions. When we ask questions about corruption, I specifically asked, now I'll tell you in two cases, I never got an answer. Željev bridge, not built, Mr Djelic attended the signing, and no guarantee with the team you signed was given banking. So it can't be built with the team you chose in the tender. The PIO fund software you chose the fourth one, it looks like you'll cancel it out if you're not already on offer. You pushed until you gave a job to a Croatian firm. So it's something that's destroying this country. I specifically ask you – what is the red line? Don't tell me there, I don't know, general phrases -- both Kosovo and Europe. Really? Now someone here understands you. What's the red line? How long are we going to put up with this? What are we gonna do about shooting at our citizens down there? What are we gonna do about it? What we're doing about it, we're making a statement and we're asking Rasmussen what's going to happen. I'm specifically asking you what the red line is. (President: Time. And I asked you about the army and the police what's he doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61656	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61657	First of all, I didn't understand that this was an additional question. I understood that it was the same thing. On the other hand, you asked a generic question – you got a generic answer. You cannot give a concrete answer to the question – what is the red line, because it is a question, first of all, of a generic type. So you could ask -- what are you going to do if that and that happens, not what the red line is, or you can do that, but then you have to get a generic answer and that's the one I gave you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61658	Right to comment, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61659	Well, good. You yourself said that in addition to not knowing what is in the six points of Ban Ki-moon's report to the UN Council, you obviously don't even know what the red line is in the policy of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia towards Kosovo and Metohija, and you keep mentioning that Serbia will suffer to the red line, that it will never cross the red line, but it seems to me, so now that you say something like that I can only conclude that it is yours, we will never recognise Kosovo as an independent state, and that we have allowed Eulex to come, that the real institutions of the state in Kosovo and Metohija do not matter, because they make prosecutors, they make courts, they make customs, they make all of it. Of course, how can Thaci make when he only knows how to smuggle Afghan heroin and Serbian organs from the people he kidnaps. Of course, Eulex came to make a state for him, and you helped. You were wrong to ask for the opinion of the court, the International Court of Justice, when you allowed Eulex to enter and change what it said in Resolution 1244. And it makes sense that both EULEX and KFOR are now coming out of that mandate, i.e. NATO, it's quite logical because you've made mistakes, you've made concessions, Serbia has no use for it, citizens have 100 euros on average, but when you've come to power, none of what you've said has happened and I think it's high time you admit those mistakes and yes, that price will certainly be paid in the elections, but it would be much fairer if you'd resigned a long time ago and gone into political forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61660	National MP Milan Avramovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61661	Mr Cvetkovic, a direct question, since he is not a representative of the Institute of Statistics and cannot be present, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija has an obligation under the government's regulations to implement the census in Kosovo and Metohija, of course it has not happened, there are no plans as to what it will look like, who will implement the list, who will pay and how it will be done in southern, let's say, municipalities located south of Ibra. What is my obligation is to ask the question directly to you, what will you first do for the security of Serbian citizens south of Ibra, when you are unable to provide citizens north of Ibra in which the majority Serbian population is, that is the first question. The second question, will you carry out the tasks, Mrs. Merkel, and shut down before Shipara, a Serbian institution south of Ibra, since the term of the parallel institution cannot be said here because there is a reaction. And the third issue concerning the security of all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who should be safe at the point they look at Serbia, you want to turn their backs again, you want to tell them that, if you go to elections, you think best of yourself, and then when they go to the Cyprus elections as it was on 15 November 2009, there is no reaction in Belgrade. After that, when it enters the Cypriot institutions, it means the recognition of their institutions, giving legitimacy to how Kosovo's state is formed or the achievement of Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and then you give an answer, I'm sorry, you chose. Meanwhile, pushing them into the sword with two blades to make their own decisions, even helping them from Belgrade in the November 2009 campaign, participate independently. Of the 72 lists, 22 lists are Serbian and there was no reaction from Belgrade, and that is proof that Belgrade is comfortable with such a situation. In fact, the authorities in Belgrade, in fact, the Democratic Party. I'll remind you, there's the Minister of Education, do you know, Mr. Minister of Education, how many people are employed in the education at KIM on the KIM budget, how many are receiving double salaries? Will you wait until the day they have to implement the plans of the KIM Ministry and train our children according to their programme? Do you know that the head of the assembly of the Shiparian municipality in Strpce is employed as a doctor in the health care facility in Strpec and is receiving two salaries? Are you fighting people like that? No, that suits you. You let those people open down the water and turn their backs on who knows which time... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And you don't organize a list in KIM, not in the north, not south of Iber. You don't care about that. You're not even interested in Serbian property on KIM. Don't forget that – and Metohija, because here the north is attractive and when I want to get three thousand euros for my car, I'm looking for four and a half... (President: finish your sentence, please.) )......................................................................................................... And so you are interested in the north, and no one is interested in security south of Ibra. What's their position today? Does this mean that by letting them enter the election campaign in the Shiparian elections, you allowed them to organise or give up their territories and citizens who live on their own?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61662	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61663	I can't understand what the security list has to do with it, but I understand that your question is your relationship to the security of Serbs in Kosovo. You probably know that Kosovo is within the UNMIK administration and that the Republic of Serbia does not have its security authorities, police, military etc. In this context, we have a specific task of ensuring the safety of people in their lives, whether it's a list or any other aspect of their lives. We are just trying to demonstrate that for peaceful solutions, for dialogue, for wanting to have partners and for wanting to fight for the safety of those people who live there, especially the situation with enclaves and those living in the south is difficult, because they are very often in one environment people who don't like them very much, and then they need to be sure that they are safe there. So we're trying to make every diplomatic asset available to us, given that we don't own any other means, to provide them with security, so to speak. What's important is that this government will never turn its back on those people who live down there and see ways to help them, but not to do them a bear service, to provoke something, to lose people's lives, to hurt them, etc., so that's our way of thinking that it's best to provide security, unlike some options that the police have sent there, etc., which this government has never considered, because it would be one moment after which there would be total chaos and that instead of helping, as it used to try, it was basically very bad for that people who live down there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61664	The word has a National MP Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61665	Mr. Cvetkovic, I am aware of the fact that whenever you in the DS defend the people of KIM that they are getting harder and harder, yet the institute of asking questions is such that I have to address you. It would be good if you turned your words...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61666	I would ask you not to insult the Prime Minister or the DS or anyone, please. Take care of the dignity of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61667	If I have offended you in any way, I really apologize. (President: It's okay, there's an apology. ) What is very important is that you turn your words into actions and schedule the next cabinet session into Strpc and then nice with your ministers and with the minister I don't know whose, whether Kosovo governments or Serbian, Goran Bogdanovic, together go there and make a decision and give a signal that you support that people there. What is essential, what we were telling you, Mr. Cvetkovic, in 2009, the military formation of Rosa attacked the officials of the municipality of Strpce because she implemented the urban plan on Brezovica and then directed the gun to UNMIK soldier because he was filming the whole event because the ramp that implemented the urban plan had to move away. You didn't react then. Now, when it happened in the north, you have diplomatic efforts and a diplomatic initiative and a vision of solutions you don't believe in yourself either. So your diplomacy lasts for 10 years. In those 10 years, the situation in Kosovo is getting worse and worse and there is no cure from your diplomacy because you defend your own people from your own friends. You brought EULEX to KIM and you defend against the Americans and the Germans of the Serbs, and then you want to join the EU and ask for support for any kind of political action of implementing your goals, etc. Please schedule a session of the Assembly in Strpc. Show that you stand by that people. You didn't give me the answer for the list I asked for. The census writes nicely, and the gentleman himself pleaded that he participated with 20 million, which says the list is arranged to meet all EU standards and there is no reason not to have all Serbs participate in the list. Here, listen to Mr. Deger. He gave you money to achieve his goals, to make a list. Make a list on KIM. See how many Serbs there are in KIM, and when you do so, write down their assets and let them know that you are counting on them, and those who do not want to participate in the list, in accordance with the law, implement the measures that are provided to you. What's also important is that you can't talk about diplomatic means anything because you'll be denied in two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61668	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61669	I didn't quite understand the question, but I understood the disagreement with diplomatic means, so I would ask you when you take these two minutes to comment on proposing these other non-diplomatic assets that you think the government should take.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61670	Commentary, MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61671	Mr. Cvetkovic, as you expect us to respond, I will give you an answer planned by traditional Serbian friends of the Russians. If you look at today's Strategic Culture Fund website as they observe the situation in Serbia, I'll just read you two sentences to deny you. It's like this. First, the status report on the ground. Since Serbian authorities have accepted in fact all the main requirements of the Albanian side regarding cadastar, customs, construction and other acts and documentation, in Brussels and Washington have decided to move directly to solving more important tasks. It is a formal documentation of recognition of the self-proclaimed independence of KIM. According to information they have, the realization of that scenario will be accelerated. Mr. Cvetkovic, when we explained what you needed to do to keep this from happening, you had no ear for it. What it also writes in this Fund of Strategic Culture, as has already been happening there in recent months, a test balloon planned to advertise new Western initiatives related to Kosovo has been repeated by the head of the diplomatic representation of France in Pristina, Jean Francois Fitt, in an interview with the main Kosovo newspapers in the Albanian language "Koha Ditore". He noted that the current dialogue between the delegation and Belgrade and Pristina allows for technical issues that depend on better people's lives, however, in his words, a different conversation called "D Dialogue" will be needed afterwards. So what you're doing is just throwing dust in your eyes. When the "D Dialogue" comes and when you have to do finally what you were set up as a task, you will say in the Assembly that's all opposition MPs have talked about and then you will realize that we were right, but we are telling you that it is now too late. If I take a further look at this department that is important and important because it was written by the Russians, which we have as the only proof and what we have the right to believe, it is said like this – as regards the conventional agreement between the EU and Kosovo on the development of bilateral and trade relations and visa liberalisation...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-29-0.u61672	Time, though it wasn't even a comment. Dear People's MPs, now that it's 19,00 hours, we end today's session in which MPs asked parliamentary questions to the members of the government. I thank you all for your participation.
