ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64348	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly Fourth session of the Second Regular Session of 5 December 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 13.45 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I would ask the Members of Parliament to register by inserting the card into the electronic system to determine the number of present. Official records say there's 105 of us, obviously there's more of us. There are 126 of us at this point, so we can start working. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Vitomir Mihajlovic and Zoran Nikolic. Excuse me, Mr. Mihajlovic is here. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform you that I have convened this session within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and exceptional for Monday, so other than those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a decision from the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. The agenda for this session, which has been delivered to you, contains a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, pursuant to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need to be made known by the National Assembly on a proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure. The Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the selection of the PUBLIC OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC MEANS AND PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 December 2011. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that a proposal has been accepted. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put on the agenda of the session of the emergency proceedings, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the Agenda in general determines the National Assembly without a search. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 128 MPs, all 128 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the PPE from public importance and protection of personal data We are moving on to work. We move to the agenda point Proposal for a decision on the selection of trustees for information of public importance and protection of personal data. Before the search is opened, I remind you that according to Article 192, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and shall be distributed to: so that the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the Parliamentary Group of the SPS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. Please stay for the rest of the session. Come back. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. Do MP groups want to apply for participation? Let's wait. Okay. Just a little patience. I would like to inform you that the MP groups, or the SRS parliamentary group, have authorised them to be represented by Parliament MP Aleksandar Martinovic on this agenda. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the motion for a decision. Does the representatives of the promoter, or the representative of the proposing National MP Jelena Trivan, president of the Committee on Culture and Information want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64350	President-in-Office, I would like to explain the committee's decision on why we asked for an emergency procedure to do so, to the very candidate proposed unanimously by the board. Namely, the current trustee, who was elected for his first term in 2004, and then again on December 22nd, the mandate expires. Given the importance of independent institutions in our society, the difficulties we are building them with and how much the National Assembly itself supports them, we did not want to enter into the situation that the trustee does not have a mandate or that it works after the term of office we have already requested, we insisted that a new term be confirmed in time for the trustee to be able to work at full capacity. As I said, the Commissioner for Public Information was established in 2004 by passing the law and that was the first time Rodoljub Sabic was then. After that, in 2007 he was re-elected in line with the constitutional law and today the Assembly is again ahead of the election of a new trustee. The president of the assembly sent a letter to all parliamentary groups on November 3rd asking them to propose a candidate for the trustee. This was done by three parliamentary groups, the LDP, the ZES and the SPS-JS parliamentary group and all three parliamentary groups have proposed Rodoljub Sabic. The Committee on Culture and Information itself is accompanied by G 17 plus and SPO, so Rodoljub Sabic was proposed unanimously by the Committee on Culture and Information. The reason for that, the criteria by which we were guided were clear. Independent institutions should not serve the authorities, they should be serious critics and correctives of the same government. Rodoljub Sabic was uncompromising in the previous period. Also, we felt that independent institutions depended on the authority of the one who led them and that Rodoljub Sabic imposed his personal authority as a person who could be the real protector of the rights of citizens and that with his authority and authority of the institution he had built all these years could lead to the real implementation of the law behind him. In addition to this, the data suggests that, as the trustee institution itself acted at first, how many unknowns were in his work, today he imposed himself as one of the independent institutions with the highest authority, and his services to say, above all, using NGOs, media, citizens themselves, and often political parties, primarily opposition. That's good, because thanks to it, a democratic atmosphere develops, develops transparency of the work of institutions and some of the information that has been secret in previous times becomes available to the public today. Thanks to his work, I responsibly argue, some of the biggest corruption affairs have been discovered, and as much as some political elites did not like it, it is a benefit for the whole society and we as the Assembly or Committee on Culture and Information, we want to express our full support for Rodoljub Šabić in what he is doing and full protection and support for what he will do in the future. In addition, we adopted his report on the work in time, but the conclusions of the Assembly itself in which we ask all institutions to cooperate with the trustee himself, to respond more quickly and adequately to his demands and to fully comply with the law that requires that information of public importance be fully available. In 2010, 45,000 requests were submitted to the public information trustee, and in 2005, it was only 2000. This says that the trustee has done another very important function, has raised awareness of information of public importance and the importance of this issue in public so that everyone in the public has now been referred to the advantages of this law and used it. Unfortunately, in 2010, 2890 complaints were also filed, the state institutions most often complained about it, i.e. rejecting the demands of citizens, individuals, by the organisation calling for official secrecy. The trustee will do everything in his authority to make the law clearer to the institutions themselves so that they know when rights can be called upon, and when not, to cooperate fully with the citizens and the trustee themselves, but I think it is also very important, on today and the choice of creditors, and that we as the Assembly give full support to both the trustee and all the independent institutions that we choose and stand behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64351	I would like to thank the representatives of the motionary Mrs. Jeleni Trivan. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party does not have any major objections to the work of the so far-time Commissioner for Public Information, Mr Rodoljub Sabic, in the conditions in which he acted, more or less, he has properly performed his post, but this is about the government of the Republic of Serbia creating an environment in which the most important information concerning the state and concerning citizens hides from the public. It is just amazing that some of the topics that are important to the state and to the citizens before some international forums are discussed, rather than what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is discussing. It has been more than a month since the SRS parliamentary group requested an emergency session of the National Assembly that would be dedicated to the KIM problem. Meanwhile, a few days ago, the UN Security Council was discussing the situation at KIM, and you could follow that session through the RTS waves and anyone who followed that session could draw one, the only possible conclusion -- that the Russian Federation, or permanent representative of the Russian Federation at the UN Security Council, Mr Vitaly Curkin, was practically the only one to defend Serbia's interests at KIM, which means life, freedom and property of the Serbian people at KIM. At the session, the US security council representative, the UN, voiced the view that more complicated situations in the north of KIM have prompted extremists from the Serbian side who attacked KFOR representatives. A Russian representative at the UN Security Council said it was not true, that KFOR had violated its powers defined by Resolution 1244 and had openly sided with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, in Serbian language -- Cypriot secessionists. Practically, a Russian representative at the UN Security Council has also denied power in Serbia and a good part of the media in Serbia, that problems in the north of KIM have caused so-called. Serbian extremists and criminals and clearly pointed a finger at KFOR and Eulex as the cause of unrest in the north of KIM. Why am I saying all this? Well, it is scandalous that the situation in the north of KIM earlier declares the UN Security Council, that KIM is being discussed by Russians, French, British, Chinese and other peoples, and that MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been unable to discuss this since the end of July because there is no session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that would be dedicated to the topic. (President: Please bring this into contact with the agenda point. Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to explain why it's important that a candidate for a public information trustee deal with the problems I'm about to bring out in my debate. So, the MPs are from the media, from the web site, informed that he is so-called. Belgrade's negotiating team head for negotiations with Pristina, Borko Stefanovic, reached an agreement on administrative crossings. Mr Ljubomir Kragovic as chairman of the Committee on the Kim National Assembly and today had to interrupt the session of the committee because representatives of the Serbian government, the KIM minister and the head of the negotiating team, did not have the decency to attend the Committee's session, nor did they deliver in writing the text of the Agreement on the so-called "Serb and English" in Serbian and English. administrative crossings. The session of the KiM Committee was not held today. If any information in Serbia today has the character of information of public importance, then it is information about what Borko Stefanovic accepted on behalf of the Republic of Serbia in Brussels in talks with so-called. temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina. Because I didn't get official information, so public information, from the government and from that so-called. The negotiating team, I had to consult the media, or try to find the text of an agreement on the so-called Internet. administrative crossings. Here's the text of that agreement. The title is – agreed conclusions on integrated transition management. This is not an adequate translation into Serbian because it is abbreviations in English "IBM". This "B" means "board" in English. Anyone who has any understanding in English knows that "board" does not mean crossing, but that it means border. Behind the title of this agreement you have a footnote number one that says, "One side recognises the line as a border", the Cyprus side, "the other side", i.e. Borko Stefanovic, "recognises the line as an administrative border line". After all, it is completely irrelevant how Borko Stefanovic interprets the concept of crossings, borders, or border lines, it is important how the concept interprets the EU. How does the EU interpret this concept? As a state border between two special states, Serbia and KIM, and so on. the Republic of Kosovo. In Article 1 of these conclusions, it reads: "In line with the Lisbon Agreement, the relevant EU rules, and given that both sides are part of the EU's Western Balkans agenda, they are required to gradually harmonise their laws with the legal assets of the EU, and especially to apply the "IBM" concept." So, integrated border management. Here the next question arises – could a candidate for a public information trustee interpret who the sides are as part of the EU agenda for the Western Balkans? Who are the EU members in the first place? EU members are sovereign countries. If the agreement adopted by Borko Stefanovic states that both sides are part of the EU's agenda for the Western Balkans, this means that the state of Serbia formally recognises the statehood of so-called statehood. Kosovo and the so-called Borko Stefanovic. The state formation of the Republic of Kosovo is part of the EU's agenda for the Western Balkans, i.e. for a member of the EU, because EU members are neither temporary institutions nor local self-government, EU members are states. This means that Borko Stefanovic accepted Kosovo's republic as a sovereign state at point 1 of this agreement. We ask the Commissioner for Information of public importance, i.e. the candidate for the trustee and current trustee, Mr Rodoljub Sabic, does this mean that Borko Stefanovic accepted an agreement with the Shiptars under the Lisbon Agreement? As far as I know, the Republic of Serbia is not an EU member. How is it possible that the Lisbon Agreement tags the state of Serbia, its government, its ministries, or its negotiating team? There's no such thing as a relationship. Otherwise, in these agreed conclusions on integrated border management, the EU is mentioned as many as six times. In one place, the European Commission is mentioned, the concept of "IBM" in point 1, point 2, at point 4, and no mention of the Serbian Constitution is made of any place, no mention of Resolution 1244 and no mention of the UN in any place. Gentlemen of the government, it's no longer worth saying you'll never recognise the independence of KIM, this agreement is what you've done. So, since Borko Stefanovic accepted what it says here, you have admitted that KIM is a special state, separate from Serbia. This is seen from other points in this, journalists have passed on, an agreement, and in fact agreed conclusions on integrated border management. Point 2 says: "In the interest of faster and more efficient treatment, both sides under comprehensive EU leadership will apply the IBM concept". How can this be a comprehensive handling by the EU in a situation where 90% of EU member states have recognised the EU's independence of KIM and when the most powerful countries in the EU, such as the UK, France and Germany, feel that the KIM issue is resolved by being separated from the Republic of Serbia? I also ask the candidate for a trustee for information of public importance – is there a country in the world that has sought political mentorship from a community of states that is openly working against its interests? The Republic of Serbia is precedentd in international relations, to insist on comprehensive EU leadership in a situation where the EU has done everything to separate KIM from the Republic of Serbia. Point 3 says -- both sides, which means countries, as these sides are part of the EU's agenda for the Western Balkans. (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: It doesn't make sense.) What are you nervous about, Mrs. Kolundjia? Well, that's information of public importance. And you're nervous, Mrs. Trivan, slowly, be a little parliamentary. Madam President, I'm really trying to ask as a problem some questions that are probably interesting for the public information trustee. What's more important information than the public significance of what I'm talking about right now? Has the state of Serbia recognised KIM, or not? If everything was clear, if everything were in line with the Constitution, if there were no problems, simply include little reason, would the government's representatives constantly avoid the KIM Committee, would they avoid delivering the texts of these agreements to us? What's the problem that MPs want to know what these agreements say? We will obviously have the only institution we can contact to deliver these agreements, which is Mr. Rodoljub Sabic. We don't know who else to turn to anymore. When we speak to the government, they say we're not in charge. When we address the KIM Ministry, they say – please contact Borko Stefanovic. We address Borko Stefanovic, he says – you Serbian radicals are savages, you are primitives, I have nothing to talk to you about, I will not attend the session of the KIM Committee and I will not deliver the texts of the agreement I signed with the Shiptars. Now I ask you, Madam of the ruling coalition – to whom do we Serbian radicals address, to obtain this information, not of public importance, of general state interest? There is no other state institution that is now in my mind, except for Rodoljub Sabic. That's why we're saying all this. So we would like one professional, competent and independent person who can help us get this information. Now I have that information that I didn't get from the state authorities because they're not going to give us, but the information I found on the media, or on the Internet. I want to meet the citizens of Serbia, because the Serbian government and Borko Stefanovic, they do not want to do so with the text of an agreement that Borko Stefanovic accepted on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, so let the citizens themselves assess whether it is in their interest or not. I don't see the need for anyone to get upset. If you think this is all in line with the interests of Serbian citizens, let me contribute a little bit to these interests, to meet Serbian citizens that they will have a nice time, now that Borko has agreed with the Shiptars. Point 3 says - both sides intend to gradually establish joint integrated points at all their common IBM crossings. This co-operation will follow the best European practice. That's ridiculous. I do not know where this practice exists, which will continue to develop gradually, be careful, the European Commission, not the UN, not UNMIK, but the European Commission. What does the European Commission have to do with this problem and what does the European Commission have to do with the policies of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM? It doesn't matter. You yourself give a mandate and you give the EU's political authority, the same community of states that did everything objectively that KIM could take from us. It says, when you look at this text a little bit better, in this agreement. This job, he says, will get a high priority. The projects will be identified jointly and implemented as soon as possible in practice. So, the Republic of Serbia, to narrow things down to simple matters, has admitted that there are two customs areas in its territory. One is the customs territory of KIM, and the other is the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, or the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Now we ask the Commissioner for information of public importance to answer us – in which other European state in its unique territory are there two customs areas? Is it in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal? Is there a place? It doesn't exist. Then why does Borko Stefanovic accept, allegedly, the best European practice something that does not exist anywhere in Europe? If this exists in these countries, the most powerful in the EU, I have no problem having that in Serbia, but it does not exist there, and in Serbia it will have to exist, because Mr Borko Stefanovic accepted it, calling for some best European practice that does not exist and this European practice is made up. In point 4 of the joint integrated, unique and safe checkpoints will be located within the common zone... (President: I really ask you to return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... the common IBM crossing zone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64353	You can't talk about the subject you're putting on the agenda. The congregation adopted today’s agenda. Please return to that subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64354	Madam President, I'm just asking you for legal help right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64355	You can't ask me for legal help, just order in this room, and order in the O.R. I'm in charge of. I can't give you legal help.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64356	Then give me your opinion or some advice – to whom does the SRS parliamentary group address in this country in order to obtain in official form the text of an agreement that Borko Stefanovic accepted in talks with a delegation of Pristina?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64357	That's not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64358	You're damn right it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64359	It's not on the agenda today. Please don't. Mr. Martinovic, you're a lawyer and you know it's not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64360	Can I say my opinion? I don't see why you're upset or why you're creating an atmosphere of anxiety in the work of the National Assembly. If the Serbian Government will not do so and will not send its representatives to the meeting of the KIM Committee, if Mr Borko Stefanovic will not attend the meeting of the KIM Committee, if he will not deliver the texts of the agreement in Serbian and English, to the MPs, if the ruling coalition avoids the session of the National Assembly on the situation at KIM, while the Security Council is discussing it, here, most kindly, please tell me what state institution is, apart from the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, which MPs can contact to obtain this information of public importance? I don't know who to turn to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64361	Please, not the way you do it. You can write a letter to the trustee for information of public importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64362	Tell me how.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64363	Don't make a big deal out of it. You're talking 18 minutes about something that's not on the agenda, which is very important and important, but it's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64364	I'm sorry, and how important it is, because I want to prove to you that what Borko Stefanovic says in the media is simply not true. You had information from two days ago in the media that he allegedly agreed that Shiptari would not be customs officers, but some customs witnesses. Approximately, they will stand and watch the Eulexes exercise control of the crossing. But it doesn't say anything in this agreement. It's good to write points 5. - agreements will include, in accordance with the requirements, a balanced presence of all relevant services of both sides, such as customs, police, etc. and cover matter such as location crossings, property properties, working hours, etc. And these crossings treated by this agreement are Jarinje, i.e. Mine, Brnjak, Končulj, Merdare, Mutivoda and Muchibaba. At the same time, you had information from Mr. Borko Stefanovic that this applies only to Jarinje and Brnjak. Now you can see it's not related. He's referring to others too, so-called. administrative, i.e. according to EU interpretation, border crossings. We really don't understand why you're avoiding discussing these issues. You would like this debate to come down to us praising or hiding Rodoljub Šabić. We don't want to do that. We're asking for information from the relevant state authorities on what the KIM policy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64365	Time. The proposing representative has a word, Mrs. Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64366	Here, colleague Martinovic, I'll try to give you some answers that are written in law. As a kind of lawyer, as you present yourself, it was nice and profoundly useful to read the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, so you would know how to reach them. It's a very simple road. Read the law and then use it, as well as a bunch of citizens who are not lawyers and professors at law school. This law, by the way, deals with the availability of information. The trustee has a job to make available information, not analyze them. If you had read the law, you would have seen very clearly that it is a little impossible to ask the trustee where there is integrated border management in Europe, but you could have obtained a document. You should also know how the document becomes public. So what you found on the Internet makes that document public. I do not dispute at all your right as an MP to receive official notice from the negotiating team and I fully support you in this, but do not use the lies because you have entered a pre-election campaign in the fight for censorship. Now Kosovo, you are always in these ideological and large topics, and now Kosovo is the favorite space and territory of our abuse. Now you're saying you can't get in touch with a negotiating team that's otherwise here and so far there's been seven meetings of the KIM Committee. What has been delayed today, the whole public knows that Borko Stefanovic regularly submits reports to the committee responsible and that you can get all the information there and that you will get that information again on the committee that has been moved, not cancelled. There's no dispute here. Today you have received his public assurances that the document will be available on both the Internet and all the institutions, and it is simply not true. So don't use the choice of trustees for such a stupid, dirty political campaign that costs some people's lives today at barricades. Don't lie to them. That's all you need, and for all the information you need, please contact the Trustee in the procedure prescribed by the law. This isn't the trustee's counter, this is the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64367	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Replica? Yeah. There is no basis for replication. According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why this kind of anxiety, bile, and why this amount of ugly words by... (President: Which member is injured? ) Article 107 has been injured. It's just that Mrs. Jelena Trivan doesn't look very nice when she says words like this. So, the session of the KiM Committee, Mrs Trivan, was not held today, but was not held last week or last week, because Mr Borko Stefanovic systematically boycotts the work of the KIM Committee, and will not come and will not deliver the text of the Agreement that he has reached with the Shiptars. That notice you're talking about, I'm going to read it now. It came from the KIM Minister's cabinette, Sergei Bulajic. He says -- we would like to inform you that Minister Goran Bogdanovic was prevented from attending the 39th session of the KIM Committee, held on Monday, 5 December 2011, starting at 12.00 hours. With respect, cabinette chief Sergei Bulajic. Coffee can't be sent to a cook like this. Fifteen minutes before the meeting of the KIM Committee begins, we have this notice coming up. With what explanation has the minister been prevented? What's this about? He's got a toothache. He's going to the market. What's this about? It's just that he's stopped and he won't come. You are now talking about how Borko Stefanovic allegedly has some great desire to work with us, only that's why he won't come to the Committee's session. No agreement we received at the meeting of the KIM Committee was given voluntarily by Borko Stefanovic, but we had to exert severe political media pressure, in order to allow Mr Borko Stefanovic to deliver some of these agreements to us. We still don't have a written form of a diploma recognition agreement, nor do we have an agreement on this so-called. border crossings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64369	Time. Mr. Stayer, sign up again, so I can give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64370	Thank you, President, for the few colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that all this controversy we are listening to is the result of the way negotiations are conducted. The fact is that what's agreed, we need to talk in the congregation sooner or later. Of course Mr. Shabic won't help us. Simply, the consequences of this are agreements that are not due to a change in policy, but to something called mugging and tampering at the last minute, which are causing these reactions. Rodoljub Šabić did his job well. I think it's hard for him to help us with this, even though he did his job well. The government is certainly obliged to agree on Borko Stefanovic to defend himself in the Assembly and to see if that changes politics, or whether it continues to muddle under the grain. Rodoljub Sabic was doing his job, in our opinion better than many other independent institutions. That is why we have submitted it for a new term of office. You know, in a democratic society that is just building institutions, it is undeniable that the institution, represented by Rodoljub Sabic, has gained credibility among citizens. It is undeniable that he did his job in a difficult time and a strong party state, when he helped both the public and the citizens and the media to extract information that was often hidden. Unfortunately, there are still institutions, public enterprises, etc., who refuse to meet the information commissioner, Mr. Sabic, and have decided before to pay the fines. It is indisputable that Mr. Sabic and his associates managed to create the institution's credibility. We think it's proof that someone can as a person slowly create credibility for an institution. We can say that the trustee institution has really become credible and really independent, unlike some other independent institutions, which we have to put under quotes with that independent. It is indisputable that Mr. Sabic also has the support of numerous civil society organisations. You know that LDP in principle supports what the civil sector supports. It is another argument why we have stepped behind this proposal, to elect Mr. Sabic for the next term. It is clear that we must be aware that Mr. Sabic worked in really awkward and difficult conditions and did everything to be effective. As far as we know, his service receives about 400 per month demands citizens to comply with two laws under which the Commissioner has powers. The fact is that unlike some other institutions, let's say, the Constitutional Court, these citizens' demands are resolved relatively quickly and effectively, despite limited resources and a small number of people. We think that what is now and today current, we leave for another session. We think that, not only the parliamentary groups that supported Mr Sabic, but also those who are not, if they care about building democratic institutions, should be kept at this point in the agenda, to say what we think, if we have something to object to, to resent. We have no objection to anything, and that is why we have proposed it, and to continue to build institutions of which this one is on the agenda, and then we will deal with, hopefully gentlemen of the majority, what is really current, and that is to obtain candidate status and conditions that Serbia needs to meet, but not in a way far from the public, vaguely, etc., because it can only cause such controversy, such debates and take us from this agenda point. After all, it's not fair to those people who were pushed to the barricades four months ago, and now it's said that their mission is over and that they need to get out of the way. Simply, there must be much more transparency about such great things as negotiations with Pristina. As for the Commissioner, I hope he gets the undivided support of parliament and that in the second term he will be even better than he was in his first term. After all, it's not just up to him, it's up to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64371	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have applied for participation in the work anymore, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by two parliamentary groups, the SRS parliamentary group and the ZES parliamentary group. I give my word to MP Aleksandr Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64372	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, the SPO supported the re-election of Rodoljub Sabic as the Commissioner for Public Information, because we believe he did his job well in the previous period. However, the area -- information of public importance, should also treat its name in a way that would be worthy, especially to the MPs of this Parliament and all citizens of Serbia, so that information that is related to their existence, related to their further political work and to the truth that is often covered up when it comes to the functioning of the Serbian state. We've had relatively recently, and I'm going to give three examples, when something that cannot possibly be declared a state or official secret. First, or first example is when proceedings were initiated against journalist Jelena Spasic and editor of National Civilian Milovan Bojovic in Novi Sad. And then we came to a dissuasive statement, information, and it was finally concluded that they were not charged by the state but by the competent court, so the whole process and the whole state secret was relativated, if at all it was a state secret. Along with SPO MPs, I have sent a request to the government of the Republic of Serbia asking for a report from the cabinet's session, with a vote on the Rehabilitation Law. So we demand that you deliver to us which of the ministers voted in favour of, who was abstention and who against, name and last name, because of our disagreement with the proposed Rehabilitation Act, which was withdrawn from the assembly procedure. The response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is something that is unacceptable, something that does not lead to the democratisation of society and something that the SPI together, we hope, with the Commissioner for Information, will try to change in the next period, was: "In connection with your request of 3 October 2011, to deliver the minutes from the cabinet session, which voted on the Rehabilitation Law or data on how the members of the Government voted, we inform you that, unfortunately, we are not able to deliver them, given that our provision of Article 59(3) is a provision of Article 59(3). The government's rules of procedure stipulate that as a member of the government voted, it is considered an official secret of strict confidentiality, and, in particular, the Prime Minister can determine otherwise. "This is unacceptable. Why do ministers have special status? What do we keep ministers from? Are they threatened? Are they mountain gorillas, black rhinos, giant pandas, or some kind of species that are trying in every way possible... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64373	People's MP, you are required to listen to the chairman when he reminds you not to stick to the agenda theme. The subject you're talking about has nothing to do with the Free Access Act, and especially not with the choice of creditors. The subject you are talking about is the subject of the work of the MP defined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a member who gives the MP the right to seek out all the types of information and explanations he needs for work. The member of the Rules of Procedure who describes it has nothing to do with the Free Access Act, so please – on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64374	May I ask you – is it the request of the SPO MPs to get information on which of the ministers of the Government for the Rehabilitation Law as voted, information of public importance? Can you answer that question for me? (President: National MP, I now warn you that I am here to remind you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With what? (President: What you say and what has nothing to do with the agenda topic. I ask you, either on the subject of the agenda, or I will be forced to give you measures which bind the chairman to any MP who considers that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not apply solely to him or her. ) On the government site of the Republic of Croatia there is a video of the whole and every session of the government held, where you can see who voted from the ministers and where you can see who discussed it from the ministers. Of course, I won't interrupt my exposure for reasons I don't think we MPs should be in a subordinate position compared to the government ministers. If we do our job transparently and if everyone knows how we do our job, then I don't see the reason and absurd and illogical that the ones we chose hide from us or they don't want to tell us how they voted. The third thing, when it comes to state secret or information of public importance, is about announcements after telling the truth about the Security Committee, as any of the members of the Security Committee heard or presented information related to Jarinje... (President: National MP, please listen to me, since I am obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I fully understand and share your position, as well as all 248 others, including the two of us, that the government should be controlled, but when it is on the agenda or session of the National Assembly or the session with the current topic. Also, I think we control the government best by pushing it and putting pressure on it to apply all the regulations that apply to it by applying our own regulations. What you're trying to share with us and with the public has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda, so I'm asking you about the subject of the agenda. ) The Commissioner for Public Information, Rodoljub Sabic, has been very helpful in the previous writing period and in attempts to put the law on the agenda on opening secret files. Is this information of public importance, who has done what in the past, and how has he caused harm to the people of the nearby area? The opening of the file would, of course, establish a democratic balance in which we could see and get information on who was from the environment or from the state structures as an associate of the Security Service. Well, if we have an example that there are democratic changes in Bulgaria... (President: People's MP, or bring about Rodoljub Šabić, as an associate of the service or whatever, or please... . ) Rodoljub Šabić worked hard on it and helped the SPO to put the file open law on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64375	National MP, you will have time and space to explain what you want, but in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly-No. So the law on files is not in any relationship, existing or any one in the draft or proposal, with the topic of the agenda. Please do everything you want to say about the topics that you think are related to the topic of the agenda, so that the rest of us remain out of doubt that it is about the topic of the agenda. You've exhausted seven minutes of the MP's time. Please sign in and continue to use your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64376	I'll do two more sentences, maybe a little more than two sentences. I have to say, there's some fear of some people opening files. In 2004, the SPO submitted a request for a file to be opened. In 2010, at the end of last year, we received a promise from this parliament that it would be held in the spring session, almost a year ago, more than half a year and it was not found. I think it's an obligation for all of us to do it, so we can make public information available to all the people in the secret files. But this is a country where dissidents sell their villas on Dedinj, following persecution from every political government. This is a country where a political party story will bring us into the EU, and it cannot bring its officials into Croatia either, and this is a country where more control of the government and the implementation of democratic laws is needed. Since I don't have the opportunity in parliament, and I don't know what other place it might be to express my views on this item of the agenda, I'm going to finish my presentation, and I thank you for being very patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64377	Eight minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, followed by a folk MP, Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really think I'm one of the people's MPs who may have used the benefits most given to this law on the availability of information of public importance. However, today's debate is specific because a large number of cases the trustee has and a large number of demands, in accordance with the law, that it is the trustee who will allow citizens to get some information, in fact, means that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia are doing worse and worse every year. In accordance with the law, each citizen shall have the right to request information from the competent authority, and the trustee shall only be referred to the moment when, in accordance with the law, the state authority does not reply or provide the requested information about the person who requested it. We have had the opportunity to hear and representatives of the ruling coalition are proud that the number of these unfulfilled demands does not increase from year to year. As much as this ruling coalition wants to enforce the law, as much as you want these democratic institutions, better than that of your formal commitment to them, the fact of how much money you've made available to the Commissioner for Public Meaning Information. Whoever really wants to fix this situation in this sense, if it were really your goal, then you would allow the trustee's office the ideal conditions to work. I will remind you that this is not about hundreds, millions of dinars or euros, but about significantly lower wages and significantly lower amounts. If the Republic of Serbia can single out hundreds of millions of dinars for countless agencies you have formed, practically, there is no new law to be passed without choosing a new agency, then how is it possible that you don't really care that this institution, to say whose value is recognised by citizens, regardless of political commitment, allows normal work? We had the opportunity to, to say, cooperate with Mr. Shabic, conditioned to cooperate, is that cooperation comes when other state authorities fail to comply with their legal obligations. You're practically putting us in a position today that we should thank Rodoljub Šabić for being the one who respects the law. Of course, we don't have any reason, especially the reason to attack Rodoljub Sabic, but in a normal state, in a democratic state, respect for the law is normal. It is not normal for you to boast that there is this office and Rodoljub Sabic, that the office has an increasing number of cases, because this essentially means that state institutions do not function. I'll talk about two groups of demands I've been making. So I'm just going to talk based on facts. To illustrate, one part of the demands I have made, to which I have not yet received an answer, and one part of the demands that I have, with the help of the trustee's office, received an answer. I think it was very important for the citizens in the previous period. One of the information, which was certainly sent to the media, is information on how SNS financed its top officials through the company "Profijler team", and money from the Zemun and Vozdovac municipalities' budgets. Namely, in two municipalities in Belgrade, representatives of the SNS have been in power and, right after they came to power, they have concluded some phantom contracts that I still have to say, and despite what we've been looking for and looking for for for over a year, we haven't come to, but, through a request for the availability of information on public importance, which we have sent to the NBS Treasury, we have come up with concrete monetary amounts that have been transferred from the Zemun and Voždovac municipalities to the account of the company "Profiller Team", in order to then, the company "Profiller Team" will pay the salary to Aleksandr Vukic, the deputy president of SNS and other SNS officials. Only in a year has it been transferred, no less than 11.038.900 dinars. Alexander Vukic himself confirmed, in the shows he hosted, for example. On November 4th, in the show "Extracting" as it works in the company "Profiller Team", he didn't know to his soul what it's called, but he said he was worth earning his salary, though he was allegedly not on the back of the citizens, he was proud of it, as you can see. He then claimed that they are carrying out some kind of business campaign, and we, through the Business Registers Agency, have found that 80% of the company's income relates to the revenues of these two municipalities. When another 600,000 is added to it, the 700 thousand they received for the coup of the municipal newspaper, then it is seen that the percentage is more than 80%. We ask the question: what kind of business campaign has Alexander Vukic planned for companies, if it is seen that maybe in a year only two million dinars are being waste on incomes that we cannot identify at the moment, but will you agree that any serious economic campaign requires an unmatched amount of money? Of course, it didn't stop the moment we went out with it in public. And today, I will announce it at one of the next sessions, the municipality of Zemun and Vozdovac from their budget, from what these poor citizens are paying in the budget, financed by the most SNS officials. The data we also received from the NBS Treasury are data relating to funding, a practically party list of SNS, companies owned, also functioners and close blood relatives and even close relatives of those parties because, believe it or not, from that moment on, in September 2008, when this treasonous group tried to make a coup into the SRS and when they stole the mandates of the SRS, there is a generous financing, practically a party list of "Justice", of the Belgrade city budget and, among other things, of some public enterprises. We haven't been able to get the data from everyone, but we've come, for example. to data on how much they got from Telecom Serbia. For the end of 2008, immediately after the issue, it is November and December, "Justice", which until then has not received a single dinar from the city budget, receives a sum of 1,669.464 dinars for the two or three months. Immediately after the release of Gilas, who is a budgetor and who independently decides how much of the list he will give, it goes to pay "Justice". In 2009 they received a significantly higher amount, i.e. 9,859,254 dinars, and in 2010 they receive a sum of 7,088,498 dinars. Total in 2008, late 2009 and 2010 amounted to 18,661,889 dinars. The amount from the city's budget for 2011 has not yet been learned, but as the end draws near, be sure that we will know that as early as next calendar year. What's interesting is that it's a company that's a formal publisher of justice, almost two years in a blockade. Believe it or not, they have been blocked since January 2010, which means they are almost two years in an uninterrupted blockade. The amount they were in the blockade was 60 million and 660,000 dinars, meanwhile, since my last address and verification, that amount has increased to 61 million four hundred and a few thousand dinars. At the same time, in order to practically deceive the debtors, they have established a new company, otherwise the truth works, so the director of Justice Press and the representative of Justice Company is the husband of Nebojsa Stefanovic, the senior SNS official, and when this company fell into a blockade, they have established a new company called Justice Plasin, in which the majority owner of the same Ana Stefanovic, the wife of Nebojsa Stefanovic, a senior SNS official. They're on a Justice Press company that was left behind by debts in the blockade, and the newly founded enterprise is that it collects income and through which they practically continue to function, I guess they pay salaries or whatever else. What is also interesting is how much the company received from Telecom Serbia, which is a public enterprise, is practically benefiting from public well-being, and sometimes a monopoly position, and on this basis makes a very good living. You saw how hysterical they were when it came to selling JP Telecom Serbia. We didn't know what it was about at first, but when we found out how generously they were funded and how many tens of millions of dinars they got, things were much clearer. For 2008, the company Justice received 20 million 257 000 and 300 dinars from JP "Telecoma Serbia", for 2009 – 18. 786,600 dinars. For 2010, the amount of 23 million dinars, which means they are so-called opposition newspapers. In three years, the majority-owned public enterprise of the Republic of Serbia received no less than 76,430,600 dinars. When the amount was added to that amount from the city of Belgrade, i.e. from the Belgrade city's budget, the total amount that Justice received was 94,705,779 dinars, practically 1m euros in poor Serbia for the opposition list of parties that have shared the values of the past two years that the DS has promoted over the past 20 years. I ask the question – how can you from the ruling coalition terrorise an opposition newspaper like this? Why don't you start out the same way you're terrorizing the SRS party newspaper "The Great Serbia", so if you pay us back, you can retroactively for that three-year period, the amount of 120, 130 million dinars, so we're also a little moaning about how threatened we are. Mr. Jugovic spoke briefly about police files, about how they are not available to the public. Dr. Vojislav Seselj's police record is available to the public. The same thing that he wanted to do could have been done by Vuk Draskovic. (President: National MP, please, the Law on opening files is not on the agenda, so please, on the agenda. ) Mrs. Comic, I agree. One of the last documents that I received through the Commissioner for Public Information, namely Mrs Gordana Šunjevarić, Assistant Secretary-General, I was informed a few days ago, so I finally got, we asked the municipality of Voždovac to find out how much compensation there is for the members and chairman of the Management Board. This is something we have been insisting on for almost a year, as SNS representatives were appalled that in the city of Belgrade, public enterprises whose budgets are also 5.6 or 10 billion dinars, compensation of board members by 10, 20,000 dinars. They of course hid that information like a snake's foot, but we got the data. Immediately after they formed power, one of the first decisions in the Voždovac City Municipality Assembly, on 27 January 2010, the advances appointed Snezana Zugic as director of the SC "Sumice". They appointed presidents and board members, etc. Novak Stanisic was chairman of the board of directors. At that time, compensation was 10,000 dinars. Compensation for the President of the Management Board. The second decision they made was the decision to pay compensation for the settlement of the municipality of Voždovac - an increase in compensation for the chairman of the Management Board, Mr Novak Stanisic, to the amount of 10,000 dinars has been increased to, no less, 70,000 dinars, which will be paid in two parts of 35 thousand dinars. Look how hypocrisy rules with SNS MPs. when their municipality, when in power, is concerned with a company whose annual budget may be 50 million dinars, 70,000 per month is adequate compensation. It is at an annual level of about 840 thousand dinars, 840 thousand compared to a budget of 50 million dinars, and in the city of Belgrade where businesses are, for example, The GSP has a planned budget loss of 6 billion dinars, compensation for the chairman of the board is 25,000 dinars, and they say it is a huge compensation. There are as many examples as you want, but now let's connect, one of the more important issues, to connect to what we didn't get. With some agreements between the negotiating team, according to Pristina, that is, those provisional institutions and the Serbian negotiating team reached in July, then I, like other members of the KIM Committee, remained deprived of information. As early as August of this month, I will read, as Mrs. Trivan asked how she was being used, I will read for the citizens what the requirement sounds like: "Request for access to information of public importance – I address you in accordance with Article 15(1) concerning Article 5. The law on free information of public importance, and I demand that you provide me with information on the content of the agreement within the prescribed time limit set out in Article 16, so with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, which relate to the cadastrian books. "We tried through the institutions of the system, that's what's particularly wrong, we tried as MPs to get that information. It is absurd for us, as MPs, as representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be the highest authority in the Republic of Serbia, that we are forced to receive information relevant to our work through the Law on the availability of information from public importance. That information was received, I did not receive in accordance with the law, but was regularly given as an MP, on agreements reached in the area of the customs stamps, on an agreement in the area of freedom of movement, parent books and cadastres, but only, as it appears, on 11 November 2011, with several months of delays. It's just that if we didn't have something here, it has to be a certain deadline to apply to the trustee, so the trustee can do something, but it's something that's totally scandalous. What is even worse is that in that response the negotiating team for dialogue with temporary institutions says the following – that certain MPs are, they pray. Here, let me read it all. I would like to take the opportunity to address the request that all reports of the negotiating team be delivered to all MPs, as certain MPs protested because they were not familiar with any report by the negotiating team. These certain MPs, they say, are SRS MPs, including Mr Kragovic and Mr Bozidar Delic and all others who attended the meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, whether they are members of this committee or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64379	I would, however, like to ask you about the agenda, and in accordance with Article 27, I would like to inform you and the Service of the Commissioner for Information that there is an act on which this assembly was declared at the end of July 2011 which is prescribed when and how the report is submitted. So, I ask all the participants in the requests for demand and in providing information of public importance to read other documents concerning the possible demands of anyone, MPs or citizens. And I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64380	I'm really trying to talk about this all the time, and I'm going to talk about the last request I made today, and that's again, I can read it again, it says - a request for access to information of public importance, I've addressed the negotiating team for dialogue with temporary institutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64381	People's MP, I now remind you that you have powers as a People's MP, that there are Rules of Procedure established in the communication between the Assembly and the Government and that whether or not the topic is whether or not we all manage to control the Government together cannot be a topic of trustee work, nor can there be a topic of the law on free access to information. So please do not abuse the division of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64382	Mrs. Comic, a few more sentences, but I really don't know why you're interrupting me. I tried it from my point of view... (President): Because you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ... to say from my point of view how much Mr. Sabic has contributed that these legal rights that we have come true in practice. Nothing else. So, I'm not talking abstractly, I'm talking about concrete, I can bring you a request that I filed...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64383	National MP, I would not interrupt you and remind you of the agenda topics if you hadn't specifically told the trustee's office that you were asking them to deliver documents to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is required. So a little bit more to read would be a lot simpler. (Inea Sarovic): Please give me my time back. .. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, does not often stay in the session hall enough, so he did not have the opportunity to remember with experience that I never, but I never take up the time available to the MP, regardless of whether the time of the parliamentary group is an authorised representative or MP who uses time as president of the parliamentary group for the time I have to use to remind him of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So 16 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been sent by the People's Messenger Verica Radet, followed by the People's Messenger Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a law on free access to information of public importance was adopted in this House in 2004, the MPs of the SRS found what we can also confirm today that this law is pretty much just a dead letter on paper and that its application will not lead to what must have been the law enforcement. He sat down that this was a bad law and years ago we listened to precisely Mr. Rodoljub Sabic who complained about the law so he initiated his amendment twice, so we had a change of law, here we now see in the announcement that Rodoljub Sabic also intends to initiate an amendment to this law and as he has now announced it, it seems to be a good idea. We just don't know what happens when it really comes to discussing the law. We remind you that Rodoljub Sabic was elected to this post back in 2004, for many years he conspired with the problems he had, as he claimed with representatives of the executive government. First he had no rooms, and he had not enough staff to do all those jobs that were in the trustee's jurisdiction, given the law that was passed, so there were problems with the height of the profits, etc. What's the point is that when you passed this law and you first chose Mr. Rodoljub Šabić as your trustee, as you do today, you don't have very sincere intentions and have not shown in practice that you respect so-called. independent regulatory bodies, when I say you think first of all of the representatives of the executive government, and certainly the assembly majority, which supports that executive authority, or the government of the Republic of Serbia. You've heard from the SRS MPs that on specific examples we've actually established, I would say correct co-operation with Mr Sabic. Many of what we published in our party newspaper "The Great Serbia" we received based on our knowledge, we sought and received information from Mr Sabic. Our anti-corruption team leading a very capable young man, Ivan Ninic, also has correct co-operation with Mr Sabic, but there are problems. There are problems and there are several tracks. First, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic cannot very often come up with information that is of public importance if it is asked of him, and then he asks further for the problem being that he must inform you and inform you, he says – I know that you should get it but not give it to those from the government, those from the Public Enterprise, etc., from the Post, depends on who it is requested and what the request really refers to. Also, one big problem in the functioning of the trustees is a law that is so well-conceived and so adopted that even if the trustee wanted this job to work even better than it does, he couldn't because his job ends up asking for information and getting it or not getting it. If he doesn't get it, nobody gets it. There can be someone there to pay a fine of 200,000 dinars and he can as a trustee give that measure, and you know when it comes to a multi-million-euro crime and when someone has to give information about this crime, then he'll rather accept to pay the fine to a trustee of 200,000 dinars, than to give that information that's much, much bigger, translated into dinars or euro anyway. So that's one problem. The next problem is that, with the help of interested persons, Mr. Sabic comes up with certain data and when it is obvious that it is some criminal activities and that is where he puts the point. It can be published in some media, I said we're publishing it in "Great Serbia", maybe by some more media releases, but there's no reaction from the state's attorney, no reaction from the MUP, and what we've been doing, nothing. So it's a feller in the law, and above all a problem in the functioning of a state prosecutor who should follow both this parliament and the media etc. and, on the basis of knowledge, initiate appropriate actions. It's a public prosecutor's obligation and in fact all public prosecutors and their deputies. There is another problem, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, in fact the Commissioner for Public Important Information in this case is Rodoljub Sabic, has an obligation to react similarly to the public prosecutor and when it comes to certain knowledge, he should try to get information to clear up some situation, some notorous facts that appear in public, and there is a problem that we do not have some great urgency in that part of Mr. Sabic. Mr. Sabic has initiated one topic these days and the media is dealing with the team, as he says abuse of citizens' personal data in the performances of some political parties, i.e. political party activists. This is the topic we talked about in the SRS several times, and we presented concrete data. The fact is that certain political parties abuse the fact that they have authority in some local self-government and that they can therefore come up with the electoral list and use the polling list with all the data for their own party purposes. Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, at least speaking to the public, noticed that there were certain problems. He says the data is also obtained from local self-government, military, police, school institutions, etc., but we do not seem to have dealt with this problem properly, as we of the SRS have talked about and how we are going to talk about it today. The Serbian Radical Party is now leading a major campaign, in fact, under the heading "We're Not Going to the EU". It's not good, we think, that the media is dealing with these views of Rodoljub Šabić right now, because it can be misread. Mr. Sabic is talking about the abuse of citizens' data. How? How does that happen? By, say, having, you remember when the advancers collected signatures for the change of the Constitution, and when they wanted to reduce the number of MPs, and in fact they wanted to delete the preamble that KiM was an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and then they collected not even I knew how many signatures, these signatures arrived in the Assembly and on the Constitutional Affairs Committee, we agreed that these signatures were being checked because there was a suspicion that these signatures were not taken from citizens, but that there was someone sitting in an office there and stamped the signatures with the same pen, the same handwriting, just a little bit mixed, and then it was told to the Committee that all these signatures were taken to the MUP for verification, and it was more than a month, we have no information about it. Did the MUP find out there was an abuse of voter lists? We at the SRS claim it is. Some of our people were witnesses that the data in the polling list was copied and that officials, who receive salaries in municipalities where they were in power, signed instead of those of some citizens, had signed signatures. This is dramatically different from what the SRS is doing. In our campaign, "We will not go to the EU" we come to citizens with an empty form and citizens voluntarily give us their data - name, last name, home number, phone number and are personally signed on that form that we bring. Indeed, we have an extraordinary response from Serbian citizens who know that they should not be afraid of the SRS, who know that the SRS will not abuse what it is asking for and who never abuse and are not when we were able to come and where we have power, where we can get to, say, the voter list, we never did. So, with empty paper, we come to the citizens to give us signatures. Also, what Mr. Sabic should have been doing a little bit is financing political parties, i.e., concrete financing of the Progressive Party is interesting that the man who is a public-important information trustee did not ask the issue of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which remained completely deaf and had no information we could read in the media, let's say that the wife of Tomislav Nikolic, Dragica, his sons, sister-in-law, aunts, etc., had been giving some huge money to finance this Progressive Party a few years ago, and then Vukic said that Tomislav Nikolic had come up with some money, but since he was then a bad law on financing political parties couldn't pay it, so he had to split it by relatives, that he was paying it. That's the information the Agency and the trustee and the public prosecutor were supposed to be dealing with. Unfortunately, it remained behind, as said Manter, Miki Rakic told him that he had received a warrant from Boris Tadic to help Nikolic and Vukic in an attempt to crack the SRS. How could Mr. Shabic not be interested in how he was supposed to help them? Of course, the money. It's clear, but we expected Mr. Sabic as a trustee, like many others when we talk about other independent bodies, we'll remind you of that. Of course, what we should certainly remind Mr Sabic, since today's debate on his re-election is I assume he is following Parliament's work, that we from the SRS have asked him to provide us with information that the ministers voted to recognise the Supreme Court so-called. Kosovo states in the catastrophe disputes accepted by Borko Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64385	It was used 11 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Dusan Maric, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64386	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my predecessors have said, we in the SRS believe that in the current circumstances Rodoljub Sabic has done his job correctly, but we expect that before we make a statement about his re-election, or re-election, it explains why neither the public authorities nor his office have answered any questions that have been asked and that it explains whether or not anyone in the executive authority is preventing the delivery of the requested information. For these reasons, and for the citizens of Serbia, as these are extremely important topics, I will remind some of the information requested that has not been answered. First, what is the amount of aid and donation from abroad that entered the Republic of Serbia from 1 January 2001 until today? I remind the public that after asking this question to the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said it was a sum of about 65 billion euros, while individual opposition politicians claim it is at least 90 billion. The question is, where are those billions? This question is extremely important if you take into account the following facts. There are a million unemployed in Serbia. In the last four years, 350,000 people have lost their jobs, 700,000 people live below the poverty line, 60,000 people feed on the folk kitchens and 300,000 people don't have their own roof over their heads. Other information to which no response has been received is why the publication of parts of the contract made by the Government of the Republic with the Italian "Fiyat" on the sale of the "Red Flag" from Kragujevac is hidden from the public. What does the government hide from its citizens in these congested parts of the contract? I remind you that the sale of the flag was agreed in an election campaign in 2008. I recall that some politicians are now the ruling coalition, specifically Mladjan Dinkic and Boris Tadic, said that "Fiat" under the contract in Serbia will invest around 700m euros and that the new factory will produce at least a hundred thousand new cars annually. We have no answer to this question, but we have the fact that we still, after four years, do not have a new car, we do not have Italian millions, we have only the information that the Republic of Serbia and the town of Kragujevac, which through direct financial investments, through various reliefs, has invested about 300m euros in this joint business. The following information that has not yet been answered – what have the authorities found about the murder of the leader of the Zemun clan Dusan Spasojevic Shipara and Milet Lukovic Kum? Were they really killed in the exchange of fires with police in the Belgrade suburban village of Meljak or were they captured, after which they were shot... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64387	People's MP, the police investigation documents can't be information of public importance. I listen very carefully to every MP who explains the topic – the choice of public information trustees is not a re-election, but a choice, so I ask you to contact the law on free access to information and choice. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64388	Thank you. The next explanation we expect is an explanation -- why no information has been disclosed by the Belgrade city government about why only days after the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, the local city authorities destroyed...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64389	People's MP, I reminded you that the topic of the agenda is the choice of trustees and that the argument on the choice of creditors can be within the framework of a law defining his jurisdiction, and the MP who is determined not to speak on the subject of the agenda is in such a situation that I must remind him that you are obliged to respect the topic of the agenda. So, all kinds of information of public importance, all the jurisdiction of the Free Access Act, of course, is that it is desirable for the argument of each of the MPs who freely decides whether or not to vote for the election of Rodoljub Šabić as the trustee for the information. But breaking the Rules of Procedure and making time available to you so that you can talk about whatever you want, I can't let that happen. So I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64390	The obligation of the public information trustees is to provide citizens with access to all information of public importance at the disposal of the competent state authorities. In order for us to be clear about Mr Sabic's re-election, we believe it would be correct for Mr Sabic, or someone else, to inform us about why some of the questions, which we have asked his office, the public information trustee, and the competent authorities, have not been answered. The following information we have asked for, which we have not received an answer for, we do not know whether it is Mr. Sabic's will or whether it is the pressure of the executive authority, why is there no full tender documentation on the privatisation of Luke "Belgrade", bought by Milan Beko and the Uste Centre, which was purchased by businessman Petar Matic, in which the state was damaged by about two billion euros? Then, why is there no tender documentation on the privatisation of three sugars in Serbia, which he bought for three euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64391	The MP, the question, or request to be sent to the trustee, is a request to provide you with some information. The Free Access Act makes it clear what information is considered to be of public importance and form to be referred to the trustee as a request. So, please, no rhetorical questions, but about what you referred to as a request to the trustee, if it was in accordance with the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64392	Mrs. Comic, according to the Law on Public Information, all these issues I am talking about are information of general importance for the citizens of Serbia, and they are of particular importance to the SRS MPs, so that we know how we will behave on Mr. Sabic's re-election day. So we expect to be answered whether the information we were looking for was not obtained because Mr. Sabic did not want to give them, which we do not believe, or because there was obstruction by the government and the government authorities? I remind you of the fact that Mr. Sabic has repeatedly made public the fact that his office is being obstructed by the current government. The next question, the next issue that has not been clarified, which remains unclear, is, under what conditions, I mean the tender conditions, is the Ironzara in Smeder's American buyer sold for $20 million? This is an extremely significant issue for the reason that independent analysts have assessed, experts estimate that this price is significantly less than the price that could be considered as being sold as old iron. The next issue of exceptional importance for Serbian citizens concerns the security of Serbian citizens, is – why is there no indictment against criminals who, on 5 October 2000, remind you, have taken over the Old Town Police station in Mother Jerosima and stolen more than 500 pieces of automatic weapons from the police station? That weapon hasn't been found yet. I remind you, it's eight machine guns, six rifles, 203 automatic rifles, 13 hackers, 10 snipers, 293 M 57 guns, 25 CZ 99 guns and six chemical guns. The only thing we've learned about this stolen weaponry is a claim made by the MPs that these weapons were estimated to have been carried out in Belgrade's territory by at least 23 liquidations. The next question to which no answer has been received is – what about an investigation into billions of euros that Slobodan Milosevic and his associates allegedly or really brought out of the Republic of Serbia? Here I am not referring to the investigation of prosecutors and competent judicial authorities, but to the investigation of the state authorities, and I remind you that the investigation was launched and that it was being talked about by Mladjan Dinkic and Boris Tadic at all bells. I recall, DOS leaders claimed in a pre-election campaign before 5 October 2000 that it was at least ten billion euros. Afterwards, after October 5th, the Serbian government was formed, in which Mladjan Dinkic won the post of vice president, in which he was authorised by the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64393	People's MP, I must now give you information of public importance. Mladjan Dinkic was not the vice-president of any government in 2000 and 2001, so please, if you already want to argue on a subject called selecting trustees from information, based on the Law on Free Access to Information, that you are doing so with respect to the basic facts that are known to everyone and for which no one should be asked, therefore, not rhetorical, but to argue on the subject of the agenda in which Rodoljub Sabic did not or did well in his work to earn your vote as one of 250 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64394	So I'm correcting my sentence. Mladjan Dinkic, as an authorised representative of the Republic of Serbia, travelled to Cyprus. Afterwards, Serbian citizens were informed...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64395	People's MP, I really need to give you further information of public importance right now. Mladjan Dinkic was the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia at the time you were talking about. I ask you about information, so that you and I will not participate in the mocking of a serious topic, such as selecting trustees for information. I'm asking you most nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64396	Mrs. Komic, the indisputable fact, the essential fact about this topic, is that we did not get information on whether what Mladjan Dinkic said was true that he found that Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64397	National MP, this cannot be a subject or a law on free access to information, nor can it be a subject from the work of the trustee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64398	But it could be a topic of discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64399	There can be no topic of discussion of what is not the topic of the agenda. It's that simple. I'm really asking you not to force me to say the warning measures, because you insist on talking about whatever you want, regardless of what we're meeting about here as part of the agenda. I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64400	Here, Mrs. Comic, since I'm obviously not allowed to speak, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64401	Now I'm asking you not to deceive the public. That's inadmissible. If you're not allowed to speak, you're talking for 11 minutes. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I must remind you that you have decided to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you do not mind the facts and the subject of the agenda. And then you inform the public in Serbia that you are not allowed to speak. There is no word in the Rules of Procedure, but I now warn you that every next violation of this kind knows that it forces me to give you warning measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64402	Can I get one piece of information from you on this subject, see if I'm in the topic, really? So, I'm curious, the question is the Commissioner's request for information of public importance, what about 10 billion euros that were reportedly found in Cyprus? Has the government of the Republic of Serbia ever discussed this issue? What's said, what's concluded? We've asked this question for the reason that there's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64403	People's MP, it's a question of your capacity as People's MP to the National Assembly. That's not a question for your communication with the Commissioner. You know that better than I do, because you know what 250 of us should do in an attempt to build full control and control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Do not disrespect the reputation of this congregation, believing that as MPs, we have no ability to control the government. If we do not agree together not to interfere with what is the will of the MPs and the Law on Free Access to Information provided to all citizens and what are our constitutional powers, our constitutional obligations, then we have a huge problem with understanding, not only the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige you to talk about the agenda, but with the institution of the MPs in general. If you wish to sign a request for a session with the current topic, I will be the first to apply for a session with the current topic, so that as MPs, you will question members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia about issues that you do mimicically as a topic of the agenda, and can't be. Eleven minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. After that, it's Marina Tomman's folk emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since today's debate on the election of Rodoljub Sabic is today, and since we heard at the beginning of this debate whose proposal he is and whose support he will receive today in the Assembly, we sincerely hope that the man did not watch the assembly broadcast. Perhaps that until the end of this session, that is, this debate of the slaughter and perhaps the man gives up on this candidacy. Why does the SRS say that? Not perhaps, but certainly a man will do so, because this is a hypocrisy in principle – we, Mr. Shabić, have proposed, we will give you support, we will choose you, and then, Mr. Shabic, drown in the systemic mud that we, as a government in Serbia and create. We, which have been promoting European values and European principles for 10 years, are going to do everything we can to prevent you from functioning the way this is supposed to happen, because that's why you're founded. We now need to praise Mr. Sabic because after five or six months we have received information on the salary of the director of the public company. We have neither the intention of Mr. Shabic nor the regret, for man has shown a certain will and determination to deal with the matter, which is entrusted to him in an adequate manner. But here, the essence of the problem and the origin and the outcome are you, you who are the government and who have done everything to make sure that both his work and the law that is being handled and the institution that represents you disfigure and collapse. It is no accident that the SRS today mentions both KIM and all the crime that Serbia is wrapped up in and wrapped up in. I have a document with me written by Rodoljub Shabic. Among other things, I'll read one sentence of that document. Therefore, it is not enough that the authorities are properly and correctly referring to the requirements for free access to information and acting accordingly. It is necessary that authorities publish as much information as possible about their work on a proactive basis and without specific requirements. You've been trading with 15% of our territory for months, and we don't know what's going on or what's going on. That's why KIM is being mentioned at the session today, not because we want to or want to discuss it. Today you have heard about a bunch of information related to criminal and suspected, both such and such actions of political life actors in Serbia. It cannot be solved by Rodoljub Sabic, it must be resolved by the institutions of the system. Unfortunately, you manage and manage these institutions of the system. At the head of these institutions are your political elections and your political deputies. What do we expect? You want to handle this? Or should God not replace you, Tomislav Nikolic, and his Prime Minister Milan Beko, so that they may resolve this? Yeah, right. Milo Djukanovic, Cane and the team, they can arrange the things that make life the way it is. It's not possible, it's not going to happen. Today, an objective question is raised – what is the meaning of choice and re-election? To be satisfied with the fact that you're applying for a local estate to a poor director in a public enterprise that he's been doing for 10 years and asking him how much money he's got, and he's not going to answer you. He will not answer because his salary is greater than the wages of the Messenger of the people. But, at the same time, everyone will look into the pocket of the People's Parliament, at the same time, to devis the institution of the People's Parliament and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ask that same director a question – how many and what scholarships do you share from public money, from public funds? You've been waiting six months for the trustee to provide you with any information. When you get the information, then you see that there are children of directors, deputy directors, municipal managers, etc. Now in such an atmosphere, we should expect that something will happen here, change and that Rodoljub Sabic will continue to work in some different and changed circumstances. The solution for both this man and Serbia and the user of this law and his, let me say, function and mechanisms is to leave power because you are unable to create an ambience in which such institutions will function. Why am I saying that, Mr. Vlahovic, I see you approve? I have a misapplication against the President of the Criminal Court who will not act in accordance with the Law on the availability of information of public importance. That's the judge of your reformed judiciary. These are your European standards. Now we need to stick our heads in the sand or under the carpet, how great everything is, because you are supporting Rodoljub Šabic. Let's just chill out and him and all of us together. You're supporting him. Judge, you're going to be complaining, is it, the Commissioner, and then you're going to file a criminal complaint to the president of the institution that needs to decide on that application. That's where we live. It is an ambiance of the political, European that you or should be created by the traitors of the SRS, who are racing in this European penalty to race, who will rather be destroyed – are you, are they? Rodoljub Sabic, whoever he is instead of Rodoljub Šabić, as long as you are where he is, will not be able to work, nor will he function properly. This country needs real changes in the judiciary, real changes in a bunch of other institutions that will ensure the application of this law. You can also not talk today and not listen to the story of KIM, reluctant to listen to the story of crime in which, I repeat, Serbia is wrapped up, but these are facts and that is reality. What needs to be an objective debate, you're running away from it. You are running away from it because you have to face yourself, because you have established and promoted all systemic weaknesses that cause Rodoljub Sabic or anyone else to work. There's a problem. That's why the SRS, according to this election, is indifferent to this decision. This is the least of Rodoljub Šabić's stories. This is the least story of Rodoljub Sabic today, and most of all is the story of institutions about the government of the Republic of Serbia that did everything to obstruct and dissuade his actions. You know that well. Of you, you won't mind my saying, you're the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you've accepted it yourself, made a hundred times a rag. That's what you agreed to. Why? For what? Who made you do that? Now you will wash your hands all individually from that government and expect not to argue until voting time, so that Rodoljub Sabic will be elected. We don't care about Rodoljub Sabic or the trustee institution. You don't let it work and do it right, because the sequences of his data and information that the maltenes are forced to do are all your political choices and your controversies. This is the fundamental problem of this country, and until this is resolved, Rodoljub Sabic will continue to breathe on the tube in this institutional, i.e. persuasive sense, he will not resent what I told him. As far as the SRS is concerned, from here to there, while such policies govern this country, European standards, European values, we will live in the mud that you have organised and established in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64405	The People's MP Marina Toman has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64406	Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of Mr. Sabic's re-election, it is impossible to bypass two key issues, relating to the application of the law itself on free access to information of public importance. Certainly, these two key problems also determine the status of the Commissioner himself. In fact, these two key problems show what it looks like in practice when someone in public advocates transparency in work, and on the other hand, in all possible ways tries not to implement it. In fact, these two problems show the honesty, i.e. the government's dishonesty in the consistent implementation of this law, the governments it allegedly advocates, to repeat once again, for transparency, and in practice obstructed it. The two key problems are primarily the government's refusal to react according to the credentials' resolutions and the statutes of limitations. A few days ago, when some people, who were denied information of public importance, complained to one ministry official, were told – do not worry, Mr Sabic will already find ways to resolve it. If the law were to be applied, i.e. that the government respected it, there would be no such remarks, and Mr. Sabic should not find ways around the way in which the law should be respected. The decisions of the Commissioner shall be binding, final and executive, as set out in Article 28. The law on free access to information of public importance. The same member also states that in the process of administrative enforcement of the trustee's solution, an appeal concerning enforcement cannot be made. If the Commissioner is unable to implement his solution in the manner set out in Article 2, the Government shall, at his request, assist him in the procedure of administrative enforcement of that solution, by applying the measure of its jurisdiction. There is a problem, i.e. an obstruction of the government, which, as it has shown in practice, has repeatedly been deafened about this member and has not done her part of the job. There are dozens of solutions that the authorities have not executed, which the Commissioner has forwarded to the government, which should have provided for their execution. Besides, that's what the Commissioner said in his 2010 report. He argues that the mentioned problem was present to a greater extent by May 2010, followed by changes to the law, following a number of talks with representatives of the competent authorities, including the Prime Minister, written initiatives and public response. In fact, this law could be an example of just how laws are selectively applied, that laws are not binding. It is precisely the credentials that the law has changed after the response, that is to say, talks with representatives of the authorities, with the prime minister, with various initiatives, shows and confirms this fact, because that the law has really been implemented to its full extent would not be necessary for the trustee to go around and convince those who break the law to change and that the law is going to apply. The government is the one who put the trustee in an extremely unpleasant position, or is it not the Government who, with that attitude, sent a clear message despite the law by its inaction? We are the ones who decide everything, and to what extent the law will be applied. The same government that allegedly advocates, to repeat, the transparency of the work of state services. In public these days, as in the previous period, there has been a lot of controversy that the government will pass an act that will settle this issue, or regulation that will specify its behaviour. However, nothing has yet been done in that field. The problem could have been avoided if the government had been more prepared to propose appropriate amendments to the law much earlier, the Commissioner argues. We agree on his assessment, but only in part, because the key question is how far is the government ready? We don't consider it enough. The government and other state authorities will continue to assess what is of public importance and on the basis of their selective subjective assessment to decide and the law prescribed by law. Examples in practice are a lot. I'll just name a few. Since December 2010, the journalist "The Great Serbia", Ivan Minic, who was originally released from the press a few days ago by the book "The Release of Serbia", which is in fact a practical application of the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter, has been trying for more than a year to come up with information that would indicate how the realisation of so-called. the work of the century, i.e. the consolidation of the joint Serbian-Italian company "Fiat Cars Serbia". At the address of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, a number of issues related to respect for the commitments undertaken by the "Fiat Group" from Turin and the Republic of Serbia have been addressed, but there has been no answer from the institution for more than a year. The first issue concerned all budgetary expenditures and subsidies in 2008, 2009 and 2010, which our country realised in Fas. The question was asked – when everything, how much money, what account number, who, on which basis, was paid out of the state register and a number of other issues. The answers to the previous questions, however, have not arrived, so that there are still doubts and dilemmas that should be removed, in fact, this key question – how many citizens and states have received this contract and how many have lost? According to the fact that this information is still hidden, or not being delivered to the public, they only confirm this one fact that it was simply a pre-election job and that the greatest benefit from it would ultimately be "Fiat". Also, the Commissioner himself stated in his report that citizens were also complaining about the work of the province's authorities. An example that I shall make perfectly clear that the competent regional authorities have given themselves the right to assess what information is of public importance and which is not. Namely, the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environmental Protection refuses to give information relating to the issue of a local permit for construction of the Unidisk factory in Kovacica, a factory for the processing of dangerous industrial waste, including asbestos about four hundred metres from the first houses. For the province's secretariat, however, the concern of the people of Kovacica for health, for the job, is otherwise the agricultural area, is not important and the requested information is not of public importance. It cannot be decided by several officials and top people of the province's secretariat in the application of several thousand citizens. So what's the chance for citizens who don't have the opportunity to put pressure on the media to get information of public importance? Not at all. That is why, when we talk about this topic, about the trustee institution, about its re-election, it is important to talk about these problems. We will all agree that progress has been made in the application of this law, but above all thanks to the Commissioner himself. But the shift was made, or done to a certain level, to the level that the government estimated should go, although the law is clear. Until that changes, there won't be any speech about the full application of this law. Also, when we talk about the limitations of criminal proceedings, it is important to state some of the information that the Commissioner himself states, that the percentage of those responsible for the violation of the Law on Free Access to Information is still very low. The Commissioner's service has otherwise provided the files for about 2,000 cases to the competent ministries, including the Ministry of Culture, most of which have become obsolete. Changes are under way, i.e. preparations for amending this law, which extends the time limit for the initiation of the infringement procedure to five years. We believe that this is a good change, but we also expect this law to be found before the MPs in this House as soon as possible to discuss it. Finally, once again, I would like to underline that the government will eventually be the one to decide to what extent the law will be respected. And let me repeat: we do not have any objections to the work of the Commissioner, but also how once again we underline the fate of the law itself, and also how much fate the trustee will succeed in upholding this law, depends primarily on the government, or those who obstruct the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64407	National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64408	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS have declared themselves and given their opinion in relation to the proposed candidate for the Commissioner for Information of special importance. What can be said is that we had a lot of information in the public that the trustee had a lot of problems when it came to public data being published and that the citizens knew about it, that the trustee had big problems and that, in my deep confidence, he was not getting any valid information, nor did he get them precisely, in the extent he was looking for it. What has been observed in the course of the application of this law, which is the selective application of these provisions of the law, depending on who is asking for information or who has made a complaint about the decision of a state authority. What is provided for in Article 9 of this Act, which is – when you can exclude and restrict free access to information of public importance, there are often abuses here in application. Many authorities, in line with the requirements of the applicants for obtaining information, are often called for by the provisions of Article 9 of this Law, as there is an open possibility and one legal cavity, and in many cases an unlimited number of cases may be called upon by the Authority not to allow access to the search engine for certain data for the purpose of life, health, justice security, defence of the country, national and public security, economic goods of the country and secrets. All of this, gentlemen, you can now, in every case, gain insight and see that there is the most abuse here and that the citizens here are denied the right to receive the right and receive the right information they are looking for. What we must always point out and parliament must know, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that we do not have accurate information on how many complaints are filed and how many complaints have been filed and how many complaints have been filed. And secondly, what is the outcome of complaints and complaints which are citizens or other persons, whether legal or natural persons who have sought certain data, have they been notified in that case in accordance with the law or not? I'm surprised that Mr. Sabic, regardless of his qualifications and his professional experience, which is undeniable, how come, gentlemen, no record of the arrest of 12 and a half thousand citizens in March, April and May and June 2003 in the action "Sabbe"? What was that? Why do Serbian citizens not have the right to information as many people have been detained, how many have been arrested, how many have been detained, against how many persons have been detained for 30 days, for two months, three months, six months? Secondly, what happened to the outcome of these criminal charges, these suspicious circumstances, which one of them was accused and who was convicted? There were serious injuries to basic freedoms and human rights. As far as answering questions are concerned, it is obvious that we often do not get answers to questions asked. I asked the question and asked for the answer – how the privatisation was carried out in enterprises in Pančevo: Veterinary station, list "Pančevac", "Pan raw materials", "Utva point" Pančevo, "Pabuka", "Pabuka", Industry scrub, "Utva service" Pančevo, "Tamis Informika" Pančevo, "Utva point" Pančevo, "Silomont" Pančevo, "Mlekara AD" Pančevo, "Construktor" Pančevo, "Seme Tamis" Pančevo, "Tamis Shop" Pančevo, "Tamiš Shop" Pančevo, "Tamiš equipment" Pančevo, "El transport" Pančevo, "Gaj" Pančevo, "Stak" "HIP Petrochevo", "Pančevo", "Pančeva" "Pančeva", "Poprov" "Por" "Por" "Pandac", "Popovnik", "Por", "Popovnik", "Por", "Popovnik", "Pand "Pand" "Por" "Pand" "Pop" "Pop" "Pop" "Popov" "Pop" "Pop" "Pop" "Pop" "Pop" "Pop" "P" "P" "Pop" "Pro" "P" "P" "P" "Pruč", "Pub" "P" "Pop. When it comes to HIP Azotara Panchevo, gentlemen, I did not get an answer, although I asked for it, and you know that in 2006, Azotara was sold for 13.5m euros, and that its accounting value was 45m euros, that the profiteers from Serbia, with the help of the profiteers, had demonstrated the Karbamit 2 factory that was sold and unpacked, transported abroad and sold for 32m euros. Citizens and workers spoke to the Trustee countless times, but they did not receive valid answers. What is encouraging, only Ivica Dacic, a few days ago, although we discussed it in the Assembly, raised the issue of selling Azotara and the responsibilities of certain persons, it was hidden until the other day, that he filed criminal charges against the responsible persons because of the abuse of the official position, as only by selling Azotara over 50m euros to the state. Why doesn't the trustee get involved, answer, and report to the public? That's what we have as a remark, which is what these data hides and puts under the carpet. It can't be done like that. That was also the case with the Baker's Industry Panchevo, the Old Tamis Panchevo, the cotton combination Panchevo, the Light bulb factory. Citizens ask, since the citizens of Pancheva are out of work and without property, they ask the question – since Pancheva was then sold? Secondly, Madam President, when will the government session's stenograms be published from 12 March 2003 to 1 January 2005, to see the citizens what he proposed, what did he vote for, and were the laws and laws respected at the time? If they are, it's okay, but until today, it's not published, and until today, it's a secret. I don't think that's any secret. It was the government that came after October 5th. Public interest is precisely held from 12 March to 1 January 2005. That's what we don't think he should be hiding, the citizens will find out eventually. A number of information, numerous data and numerous complaints being resolved, is not enough to exist, first of all, the Trustee and to just deal with numbers. When you look at the state of fundamental human rights and their protection from year to year since 2004. You have indications that there is an increase in the number of complaints and complaints against the authorities of the administration, and that the trustee is responding, but his reactions are not giving any results and they are increasing, which means that something is wrong, and that fundamental human rights are being violated by the authorities working in the administration. It is well known that citizens have the right to appeal to the decision of the state authority, but you can see the Members of Parliament, in municipalities and cities, that the administration is doing to you, how many citizens are waiting for a simple solution and an ordinary permit. That's the problem, that's where the most citizens complain. And complaining to some city or municipal authority is not worth it. Therefore, the trustee should have greater authority and greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-05-0.u64409	Since the lists of MPs are no longer signed up for the word, before I conclude the search, I ask if anyone who has not used his right under Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure wants a word. No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search from the proposal for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the day to vote. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 5 December 2011 starting at 16.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the single item of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. We declare the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the PUBLIC OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC MEANS AND PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 30(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on free access to information of public importance, the National Assembly of Elections of the Commissioners, by a majority vote of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data. Since 129, 127 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to elect the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data. I congratulate Mr. Sabic on his election, and I wish him much success in his work. Thank you for your cooperation, you will be informed of our further activities. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of and decision-making of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011.
