ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56248	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 92 MPs attend the meeting and to determine the number of MPs in the electronic voting system, I ask Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, to determine how many MPs are in the electronic system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a Rules of Procedure, the majority and conditions for the work of the National Assembly I remind the Members of Parliament that only on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament, who attend the sitting and before the transition to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As a closed session of the National Assembly was held on Tuesday 13 June, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's decision, the National Assembly will work today, on Wednesday 15 June, after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, and before the change to the agenda, on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the request for information and explanations of the Members of the People. Namely, the first position of Article 286 states - the MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on the issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, and on the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, which he needs in order to achieve the functions of the MP and the extraordinary president, that is, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group of Members' rights under Article 1 may exercise at the session of the National Assembly orally in one address for a period of up to five minutes Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, who attend the meetings and the transitions to a further discussion. Given the exceptional circumstances that a closed session of MPs' rights was held on Tuesday will be met today, Wednesday. I ask, do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56249	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one important question. I think it's basically somewhere and good to ask that question today. So my question concerns Minister Milan Markovic, the prosecution and the justice ministry. So Minister Milan Markovic made a statement last week saying he was satisfied with the work of national councils or councils of national minorities in Serbia, reminded that one council was not formed, that is, the Council of Bosniak Peoples in Serbia and said the elections would be held during this year and even gave some political connotations, in the sense that it is pointless to boycott the elections. At first, I would like to ask the question immediately, namely, on 9 November 2010, a meeting was held between representatives of all the lists participating in the elections for the National Minorities Council of the Bosniak National Community and two things were then agreed. The first thing is that the Serbian Parliament should give an authentic interpretation of article 98 on the election of the council of national minorities in Serbia and the second conclusion was, a appeal to all competent institutions to prosecute two criminal charges filed against people from the Serbian government. The two criminal charges refer to counterfeiting of the electoral list in one case, and the other criminal application refers to counterfeiting of alleged resignations submitted by two members of the national council, which was also the formal reason of the then Minister against Minority Rights, Svetozar Ciplic, not to recognise the elections for the national council of the Bosniak national community. My question is very simple, as far as it comes with the fulfillment of this agreement. Since if elections are announced, it was logical that the problems that occurred during the past elections were removed, or the ruling majority, along with this false decentralisation law that it is offering today, decided to actually press, to continue to pressure national minorities. What we are interested in is giving us a very quick answer because, I repeat, unless a minimum democracy is provided in places where the choice of these national councils is also designed to contribute to the calming of international tensions. We are interested in what is in fact the Serbian government's plan and whether Milan Markovic is as similar as the Serbian government is being blackmailed to pass this false law on decentralisation, whether Milan Markovic is being blackmailed to have to approach or enter, or to be members of the Bosniak national council of two parties in the Serbian government, which in these nine years are all but authentic representatives of the Bosniak national minority. Because the incredible resemblance between the government's moves is under the blackmail of its quasi partners, but the damage caused by Serbian citizens is immeasurable. We tell you, if you want to call new elections, you must punish the guilty for failing the past elections for the Bosniak national community, you must know the reason. The reason is very simple. Government officials have submitted falsified resignations by two of the two members of the council and police must give an answer, not only to the police but to the authorities and the issue must be brought to the court by an epilogue. Every other outing in that election is pointless because we can all expect only that the elections will be stolen again. So we're warning you today that we don't meet again at the time before the end of the year. We're still warning you that there will be this country after your term and that these false laws that you offer and false demagogue solutions, they're being denied by life, and no matter what you stand up to that life, that life exists somewhere without you and we're going to talk about it today, with these false decentralisationists, all day here. This does not mean that this second topic is less important and I expect the chairman to ask Minister Milan Markovic to give us an answer to this question as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56250	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56251	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask today for explanations on the very serious problem of blocking the use of the dump in Bujanovac. For more than ten days, a municipal company in Bujanovac has been prevented by representatives of MZ Rakovic's citizens from using the dump. In view of the high temperatures currently in place, and that the garbage has not been delayed for ten days, the epidemic and the situation are threatened, not that it is quite problematic, but that it is dramatic. Appropriate measures must be taken, not only by the Ministry of Environment Conservation, but in this case, the Ministry of Justice must be involved, and above all, because the Court of Justice in Vranj has adopted a temporary measure to unblock the work of the municipal enterprise. However, this measure, without police assistance in the situation, does not take effect, is not implemented, so in this situation where, in all likelihood, only local self-government cannot solve the problem with its capacities, and since by accident, or perhaps not by accident, at the same time, another process has taken place, and that the public is aware of the formation of the Serbian National Council in Bujanovac and the intentions they have publicly expressed about the ethnic division of Bujanovac, which most political entities have already condemned as being very harmful. However, it is indicative that these two processes are taking place parallelly. In that sense, MZ President Rakovic is one of the leading people in the Serbian National Council. In addition to the epidemic, in this case, it threatens to escalate this problem into a political conflict, which would then have major consequences, very bad, unfortunate consequences on the general political atmosphere in the area, primarily in the Bujanovac municipality, which is in any case multiethnic, and last year they built a multiethnic structure of local authorities. Now, in particular, I point out that, besides the Ministry of Environmental Conservation, which is particularly important to address the problem, this request is also addressed to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, that we ask them for information on what will urgently take place so that this very dramatic situation is resolved as soon as possible, so that it does not come to a very difficult situation, as health, on a very possible epidemic, and on the other hand to solve the problem in time so as not to leave any further room for any other manipulations, or, mostly, calculations with a political background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56252	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the President-in-Office, has become completely illusory, perhaps asking questions from this speaker, because MPs absolutely do not get answers to their questions, of course, I think, by written means. Madam Chairman, you are here for the first time when I challenge this issue, because it has always been President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. My question concerns the King. In fact, before the government was reconstructed, I asked the Minister of Energy, Mr. Skundric. I didn't get the answer. I have an excuse, probably because in that period he has been replaced, although I must say that Minister Skundric had the will to deal positively with the issue of the purchase of electricity prices when it comes to the Kingdom. I will remind the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the Kings that as an MP from the Kings, I have asked that the collection of electricity is not valid until the end of the year for the citizens of the Kings, until all the consequences of the earthquake are removed. Of course, I asked that question three more times to the successor of Minister Skundric and I asked Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, who was here once. I never got an answer. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that I wasn't partially just thinking about the King, first of all, that there would be no electricity collection in this difficult economic situation like Serbia, but I had every reason to ask that for the citizens of the Kings, by New Year's Eve, because of the situation that is in the King, it simply does not increase for the economy or for the citizens, so until New Year's Eve. I never got an answer. I would ask Vice President Gordan Comic to try, and, of course, the President of the Assembly that I simply get this answer, because it is amazing that for the fifth time I am asking this question without getting nothing from the ministers in writing. I will also say that in the means of public information, on TV, in a direct transmission, after my question, there was a statement that the King would be released from paying for electricity. It was in March of the month, that the next day would increase the price of electricity, so that the next day it would be denied. I expect to finally get this answer, because I certainly won't give up on this question until I get an answer, in writing, about how it should happen in the Rules of Procedure. The rest of the time, I will use it to ask, too, two questions related to the King and the Earthquake, primarily the Minister of Health, Mr Zoran Stankovic. The buildings of the Hygiene Institute in the King and the Medical Centre's studio buildings are out of use. Namely, the Royal Hygiene Institute is a place where the entire facility has been destroyed, everything has been prepared for construction, and I will say that on November 3rd, when there was an earthquake, we practically all met there. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic arrived that day and pledged to build the facility quickly. So my question is when will this facility start to be built, and when will it be restored to that part of the Medical Center of Studenica? It's a question for the Minister of Education. The "Dimitry Tucovic" OS in the King is in a very bad situation. The students at that school go on four shifts, teaching takes 30 minutes. I didn't want to ask this question on purpose until the school year was over, because I think it's tolerated that at the time when students regularly go to school it's not possible to perform it, but it's unacceptable to get into the new school year by working four shifts, practically in the early hours of 30 minutes, until the late evening hours. So, a question for the Minister of Education – when the OŠ "Dimitrija Tucovic", which is in the center of the Kings, will be rehabilitated and whether students will go to this school on September 1st, not only in this school, but also in some others. I will also note that, when the earthquake was, the students of this OS were taking classes for a month under impossible conditions, of course, with the correct ratio of elementary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56254	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56255	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that KIM negotiations are under way in a rather secretive way. The Serbian public is very weak, i.e. the stoo informed about it. According to the information I have, through the diplomatic corridors of the EU, Serbia, not the international community, offers so-called Ischinger's plan. The public must know that it is the proposal of the EU's representative in the intermediate troika, Wolfgang Ischinger, who proposed in 2007 that Serbia, on the one hand, organise its relations in the way East and West Germany did, according to the 1972 Berlin Treaty. The proposal is about various forms of co-operation, but also mutual non-recognition, which was the case with East and West Germany. Of course, in 2007, the government of Vojislav Kostunica rejected such a proposal, among other things, because DR Germany and SR Germany had their own sovereignty and their own integrity. That's not the case with Serbia today, is it? We are witnessing that, say, KIM Minister Goran Bogdanovic cannot go to Kosovo's territory when he considers it necessary. There's no sovereignty or integrity anywhere. My question is, is that true? By the way, I also call for a statement by the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, that "the model of two Germanys does not force Serbia to recognise Kosovo's independence but leaves room for resolving the life problems of members of both peoples". I repeat the question: is it true that Serbia is offering the so-called "KIM" in the negotiations. Ischinger's plan? As I suppose the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic and Foreign Minister, Mr Vuk Jeremic, to whom I am asking this question will answer this negatively, I demand that the government of the Republic of Serbia declare publicly and bindingly what is the position on Ischinger's 2007 plan. It's not good for the public to be confused by the so-called. by the media and by the authorities themselves, who must not come out with a clear and precise strategy, but rather try to secret channels to carry out the will of their mentors from the international community. It is not important here so much and again updated Ischinger's plan, nor again the updated division of Kosovo, which they are talking about, and about one and the other, top state officials, the president of the state, Deputy Prime Minister, etc., but what is important is that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Serbia have no concept and no strategy. And not only for KIM, but also for economy, agriculture, education, culture, sport, etc. I expect the Prime Minister and the foreign minister to respond as soon as possible, not as much to the DSS MP club as to the general public, which is why Serbia is the Serbian government that proposes something that was already rejected by Serbia in 2007. I remind you that Boris Tadic was one of the active negotiators in 2007 on KIM. That's when he said one thing, today he's telling another. I expect the prime minister and foreign minister to address the public and the DSS MPs' club as soon as possible to ask the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56256	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56257	Mrs. Komic, in line with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you read at the beginning of today's session, SRS MPs are looking for relevant information, explanations, information and everything provided for in this provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Who are we looking for? We are asking Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. The public is well-known that the SRS for Monday, 13th, starting at 12:00 p.m., has reported a public meeting in front of the presidency building, expressing its protest with the fact that a NATO conference, NATO summit, is being organised in Belgrade, whatever you want to call it. This gathering isn't forbidden. There's no such thing as a ban. For this gathering, we have informed the public that SRS MPs from the National Assembly, MPs from the circuit assembly, city council members from the Belgrade City Assembly and city council members will attend. The idea was to express a great protest on behalf of 92% of Serbian citizens who do not want to hear about the NATO Pact, and in particular do not want the NATO Pact to return to the scene of the crime and to hold one such conference, summit, meeting or anything else. The idea was for MPs to give a letter to the President of the Republic. For the sake of the public and for the MPs, I will read this letter, which is not long, it is short, to better understand the end of my discussion where I will refer and the question – who banned and disabled this meeting? The letter reads: "Tadic, the only salvation for Serbia is your departure from power. Never in recent history has Serbia and the Serbian people been as humiliated as during your treasonous rule. You led Serbia into occupation. You threw her on her knees, Brussels and Washington. You brutally violate the Constitution and trade Serbian territories as your front. With ease, you have trampled all national and national interests. You gave up Kim. You threatened the survival of Republika Srpska. With ease, you sacrifice both Serbia and the honorable Serbian head, for the miserable remnant of power. The worst part is, you haven't shown a single shred of remorse for a moment. You were cramping your armchair, imagining that there was nothing above you. Your fear of losing power has now been increased by the fact that the West has managed to find those who possess greater betrayal capacity than you – Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. It is obvious that NATO is preparing its new candidates for Serbia's elections. These two convince officials in Brussels and Washington that they can serve them much better and that they can meet their requirements much faster. The fact that there are worse than you won't release you from responsibility for what you've done. Sooner or later, you'll be held accountable for treasonous politics. For you there are only American and British interests and interests of large capital - tycoon. The interests of an ordinary man, the interests of citizens do not exist. From them you created an army of unemployed, poor, miserable and humiliated. You have fulfilled all the demands of those who bombed, killed children, and have disrupted our territory, and now, as the highlight of Serbia's humiliation, you have been invited to organise a gathering of their criminal organizations on our country. The NATO summit in Belgrade is the final amnesty of their crimes, the breaking of Yugoslavia, the aggression against the SRJ, the creation of a terrorist state of Kosovo, on the one hand and the creation of a obedient, customer state of Serbia on the other. Tadic, does your willingness to humbly fulfill the demands of those who have done the greatest harm to our people and our country have limits? Your goal is to introduce Serbia into NATO and that process has already begun. NATO officials are already sitting in Serbian institutions. Your destructive pro-Western policy leads to the destruction of our country and people. That's got to stop. The only way to save Serbia is to leave power. That's why the SRS is demanding your shift and your government's shift. "Concerningly reported, nothing forbidden, it happened that police cordonies prevented MPs and councilmen from coming to the presidency building and handing the letter over to the President of the Republic. There's no ban. There are cops in the cordon with badges - I'm a cop on strike. We ask for an explanation – who has forbidden it, who has denied it? Take care when you answer, because a few days ago your President Tadic said - his door is always open, you should not knock on the open door. What about the police outside the door?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56258	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word, to exercise their right under Article 286? Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and MP Momo Colakovic. Explanation of the grounds for calling the sitting within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, informs the MPs that she called this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the need to discuss the draft agenda law as soon as possible, which was set out in the request of 122 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was convened at the request of 122 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the holding of the Third Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted by 24 MPs of the United Regions of Serbia (G 17 plus and ULC), No 400-1927/11, since 30 May 2011. You have received a bill submitted by 24 MPs to the United Regions of Serbia. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, has proposed a longer debate in principle, i.e. that the time of debate for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. Please determine the voting quorum. I ask the MPs to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to be identified in the electronic voting system. What we hate about one, we can't do it alone. So, I ask the MPs to identify themselves in the electronic voting system. Since it is quite obvious that more than 54 MPs are present in the hall, it is my duty to request that the service of the National Assembly be numbered by the MPs. Please respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the other MPs not to disturb the order of the O.R. and not to earn it. I find that there are 57 MPs in the electronic system for voting, and it is not a condition for us to decide on the proposal, because it requires 126 MPs to decide. Please don't throw it away. National MPs who earn whether or not they have a quorum must know that the rules apply equally to everyone and that anyone who tries to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be reminded that they do not. Since MPs continue to earn that there are no proposings, of course I will give a break when there are no conditions for the session of the National Assembly. Please don't throw it away, because it's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Dragan Todorovic insists that it be thrown away and that criminal measures be imposed. I'm at your disposal. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the parliamentary group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-St. Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of MPs, and on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group is MP Milan Lapcevic and MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. If any other parliamentary group has a proposal on who it has authorised from the MPs, I ask that the information be provided to us, so that we may inform the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 27, Articles 90 and 87, before I determine today's work break, two notices to Members of Parliament. Taking care of the consistency of the working bodies, in accordance with Article 27, the break will be set from this moment on, and the session will continue at 1200 hours. That break is going to be the one we're obliged to take under Article 87. I would also like to inform you that there is a debate in the Small Hall of the Assembly on the context in which the restitution law is to be passed. I call upon interested MPs to take this break to work, to attend a debate in the Small Hall. Also, honourable Members of the People, in accordance with Article 19. Law on the National Assembly and Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, allow me to inform you that on Thursday, 16 June of this year, with the beginning of 14.00 hours, at the National Assembly Hall of the National Assembly, there will be a promotion of the new National Assembly website, which was made in collaboration with partners, such as USAID, the Canadian AIDS Agency and the OSCE organisation, which helped and enabled their donor projects to attend the release of the new National Assembly website, which will work together, together with partners, by the President of the National Assembly of Slavica Djukić-Dejanović. We'll continue work at 12.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Let me remind you that we've used our regular hour of break from 11.00 to 12.00 hours, and based on Articles 90 and 87, I'm also informing you that we'll be working after 18.00 hours today. And now we're in part of the session before the opening of the original search. Therefore, pursuant to Article 157(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the draft law. Reported MP Cedomir Jovanovic, do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or? You're only registered in the electronic system. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56260	Mrs. Komic, it is a member of the 97th and simply this member of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates our work, which leaves us with the possibility of me as a promoter in front of the LDP and the applicant of the request for an extension of the time foreseen for discussion, so I explain something. If you think I have no right to do so, of course I will accept your opinion, but I think it would be an elemental order to allow me to explain why we asked to double the time foreseen for the debate. It's not about any obstruction I think we need that time so we can talk a little bit more responsibly about such an important issue, as is the issue of this partial fiscal decentralisation. In fact, no other institution has had dialogue, and I don't think there's any reason here to run away from a serious debate where everyone would get a chance to say what they're thinking first, and then to accept an opinion if it's argued that he didn't agree with right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56261	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can read you attitude three, article 97. The President, or representative of the parliamentary group, shall have the right to propose a longer search period for parliamentary groups than the time set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. This proposal is being decided by the National Assembly by the majority of MPs at the session, where most MPs are present, without a search. This implies a rule that, during the conduct of a session for the Proposer, there is no time for further interpretation, unlike the Rules of Procedure of the designated right, to propose a merger of the agenda points or a change in the order which is written and to which the Proposer has the right to explain. In this case, without a search, the Assembly shall be declared if a presence of 126 MPs is present. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56262	Mrs. Comic, this remains in the system by mistake, so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56263	Excuse me. People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic is still being reported, do you want another trip about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) In this case, we continue to work and ask if MP Mladjan Dinkic, president of the United Regions of Serbia, G 17 Plus, wants a word together for Shumadi? Yeah. ) National MP Mladjan Dinkic, currently not in the O.R. I ask you to have the Service or the MP's group inform the MP to enter the O.R. so we can continue our work. The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56264	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly to thank the United Regions' initiative to amend the law on the financing of local self-government is included in the Assembly's agenda. Given that this initiative was supported by around 500,000 citizens of Serbia and I think it is very important to open a serious debate on decentralisation in Serbia. I think this is a very important topic, where the law on funding local self-government is just one and the starting point of that debate. Namely, the centralism we've been living in for many years now is essentially the wrong system in a multiparty state. Centralism has always ruled in these places, I say always in the new history since 1945, it made sense at the time of a party system. The single-party system is a merger with centralism and if you have a single-party system, then centralism can enable relatively efficient development, because then decisions are made quickly and can be implemented faster, and that is why at that time, in Tito's time, Serbia actually built hydrothermia, highways as well as other republics in the former Yugoslavia. The problem arises in 1990, when a multi-party system is introduced and centralism retains. Those two things aren't compatible. With the introduction of a multi-party system, democracy should be strengthened, and centralism is the opposite of democracy. Centralism means that only a small number of people influence the country's development, while huge masses of citizens and individuals deny it. Therefore, we believe that centralism in the last 20 years is one of the main causes of small towns lagging behind and municipalities in development, deepening regional differences and the fact that young people today are leaving their jobs mass because they do not see a chance for a better future. It's not just a job membership, it's the most important thing. But in a small town, young people who finish school or college don't see the future because other than jobs, they don't have a chance for a normal social life and the fact that today everyone expects the Republic to solve their problem is utopia, because the Republic can't effectively solve the problem in 170 towns and municipalities of Serbia, thousands and thousands of villages and local communities, because none of the central states in the world can do it, nor can the Serbian state. The point is – it should be possible for cities, municipalities and local communities to get money, property and people who can solve their own problems in the area, where they were born, where they live, because they are also the most motivated to do so. So in order to carry out decentralisation, it takes three things to do. To give more money to cities and municipalities, tomorrow and local communities, to return the property and provide a direct selection of the president of municipalities and mayors. And it's a package of laws that we passed to the Assembly, and here we are today discussing the first of them, it's a law on fiscal decentralisation. You know that the start of fiscal decentralisation in Serbia began with a proposal for a permanent conference of cities and municipalities from 2005, when the current law was passed. The law had one good intention, to allow predictability in the planning of local budgets and to make it impossible for the Ministry of Finance to volunteer, i.e. cities and municipalities to know in advance how much money they would receive. The criteria that are then a constant conference of cities and municipalities have proposed are good and we have not changed them in this bill, criteria for the distribution of transfers of republican to certain cities and municipalities. What is not good is that it is still contained and too high a dependence of cities and municipalities on the Republic. This was particularly evident in years of crisis, when the core republic reduced transfers to cities and municipalities and thus violated this law in three years. In 2009, the first time the offence occurred, when it was reduced by 13 billion cities and municipalities, in 2010, it was reduced by 20 billion, and this year by 16 billion dinars. Basically, 50 billion dinars have been less transferred to cities and municipalities in the last three years compared to what the law says. What's the problem, what's not talking about holes in the local budget at all. Local problems are hardly seen from Belgrade's headquarters at all, and that is the problem when talking about some budget gaps. It's mostly spoken in a hole in the central republican budget, and no one cares if cities and municipalities have enough money. The current situation is about like this – cities, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, which is quite European, have great authority to help their fellow citizens exercise the powers for which they have the powers. So, cities have enough authority, but they don't have enough money. We're against the spread of powers, except maybe a couple I'll talk about in the end, cities and municipalities. We believe that the powers are already large enough, but that the current lack of money makes it impossible for all cities and municipalities to take advantage of these powers. All cities and municipalities can build both local roads and sewers and waterways and build sports grounds, cultural institutions, the problem is that they don't have enough money today. Then we enter another absurd, in a centralist state, like Serbia today, when cities and municipalities don't have enough money then the Republic is seen as a lifeguard, which from the Republic Funds, budgets of various ministries, public enterprises are implementing these projects at the bar. The problem is that today you don't know who is responsible, that distinction is not clear at all, and today instead of municipalities and cities building their own local rural roads, their schools, kindergartens and everything they already have jurisdiction for, often they can't because they don't have money and that's what the Republic is building for them. What's the problem? The problem is that the Republic cannot build roads, schools, kindergartens in all 170 towns and municipalities in Serbia at the same time in one year and there is discrimination on certain cities. Sometimes it's on the political line, sometimes it's simply because of the physical inability to arrive in one year at 170 places and then you have a situation that citizens of almost all municipalities and cities in the interior are justifiably dissatisfied that no one cares about them, they feel demoralized because, essentially, everyone sees that only the differences in development between the capital and other cities are increasing, that they are not being reduced, and that, retailer, there are no measures that can help from the republican level to stop it. I can admit that to the most open, because I worked for three years as Minister for Regional Development. Not a single minister should live for 500 years, yet he could not influence the central level measures to reduce the disparity of development between individual municipalities and cities. The main problem with logic is that the central state can fix it is that it's impossible. Five ministers, 10 ministers, 20 ministers cannot solve the problems of 170 cities and municipalities with equal quality. Physically, you can't go through it during the entire term, let alone solve problems. So the system setting is wrong, and that's why we're proposing a complete system change. Change in the system means that cities and municipalities are given money, property, to solve local problems themselves, that regions, today we only have Vojvodina as a region, solve regional problems, and that the central state, so the Republic, is exclusively doing national projects and until regions are established to work regional projects everywhere except in Vojvodina, because in Vojvodina the province can work regional projects. What today is the situation because of this overlap of jurisdiction, we also have non-road expenditure in the republican budget, in the republican authorities, in the republican public enterprises which are exclusively local. About 30 billion dinars today, the Republic spends on local projects. It wouldn't be any issue if these local projects were implemented in all 170 cities and municipalities. The problem is that this is happening selectively and the problem is that this way cannot solve local problems. We suggest that the Republic stop funding projects of local character, not build rural bridges and local roads, but that municipalities have money to build themselves, that the Republic does not finance the construction of a community, but that municipalities give money to self-loathing, that it does not finance more water and sewerage in municipalities than that the municipality of money builds it itself, because if all 170 cities and municipalities suddenly get more money, it is the only guarantee that more local projects can be realised over the course of one year. I would take the opportunity to explain the funding model that was given in this law. We're essentially proposing two major changes. The first is that much more money than a profit tax collected in a city, stays in that city. We suggest that it be twice as much as today, so 80% instead of the current 40%. Also, we suggest that transfers become a dominant form of financing smaller and poorer municipalities and cities, while larger cities rely more on incomes from profit taxes. In this regard, according to the model we are proposing, local self-government would still have four basic sources of funding. You'd be left with a profit tax of 80% in the city where that happens. Transfers from the republic's budget to all cities and municipalities would still remain, only a transfer to Belgrade would be lifted, because Belgrade, which has the strongest economy, has no need to have assistance from the republic's budget. From Belgrade's profit tax, it will already reach a bigger budget and will win, and therefore there is no need for the Republic to further help through the transfer to Belgrade. Instead, a transfer to Belgrade would be abolished and a new transfer of solidarity would be established to reroute that money to all other municipalities and cities in Serbia, but mostly to those who are the smallest and poorest and least developed, so to the municipalities of the fourth group of development, from third to the classification of the Regional Development Act. Why is this important? Because the first is to establish a much greater independence of cities and municipalities than the Republic, financial independence in this case, which is good. Citizens do not have to choose in municipalities and cities of the same party as they are elected in the Republic, and that they are punished because the Republic does not give enough projects to those cities where they are not political parties that do not correspond to the structure of the ruling coalition, because governments are changing. Here, 20 years since the introduction of the multi-party system, literally all the parties sitting in this parliament have been in power. There's not one that wasn't in power. So the parties change and they change. That's good. It's democracy. The problem is that cities and municipalities don't need to depend on republican election cycles. This way is self-sufficient in the financial sense of cities and municipalities, and it no longer matters whether citizens in one city vote for the same party as they vote in the Republic, because the city and the municipality will be able to finance their responsibilities with this additional income of 80% of the salary tax. In this way we are essentially reducing the impact of politics on urban development and municipalities, which I think is very important. The second thing, the motivational factor for local leadership is extremely large. As it was not possible to banning dealers on the streets in 2000, we had to introduce the possibility that people could freely go to banks and exchange offices to replace foreign exchanges, so it is not possible to give greater motive to cities and municipalities to reduce the local corporate tax, apart from that, that the biggest income tax is theirs. If the cities and municipalities, as we propose, remain 80% of the tax earnings, so there is no local leadership that will not bother to reduce the company, to make better conditions for foreign investment, for domestic investment, for encouraging domestic economy, because the more people someone works in the city they live in, the majority of that money remains in the city's budget. So the motive is more than clear. Also, the big problem with cities and municipalities in the interior is that young people go to Belgrade. Data show that, of all students from the interior and studying in Belgrade, only 3% return to their hometown to start a family and try to continue life in the city where they were born. The separation of families also leads to the demarcation of the territory. This is particularly expressed in eastern Serbia. Eastern Serbia only has twice the territory of Vojvodina and five times the population. The departure of residents from smaller towns, towns, not only to Belgrade, but abroad, leads to Serbia losing its territory through time. It's a big, not just economic, but political problem. We propose that 80% of taxes on earnings remain for all cities and municipalities in Serbia, but that larger cities be double reduced in transfers, that the most developed cities go more to the market and that, through incentives for employment, achieve larger local revenues. On the other hand, small municipalities, small towns, which are underdeveloped, would still have not only the same amount of transfers, but would get more transfers than today. I'll illustrate that to you on the case. First of all, I would like to say that the table that he sent to all Members of the Fiscal Council is not correct, for a simple reason. Let me explain why they're not true, because the fiscal council has made one scandalous and cardinal mistake. He came from the fact that the current republican transfers of 34 billion will not change forever. So he began by breaking the current law in the future. Today, cities and municipalities should have 1.7% of gross domestic products. They've got 1.1%. The fiscal council comes from the fact that in 2012, 2013, in 2014 and in the future, there is no increase in the transfer, but remains this reduced, regardless of which it does not write in any law. So, it's inconclusive to anyone whose analysis, in this case, of the Fiscal Council, if it comes from breaking existing laws. So the current law is broken and the fiscal council adopts as a fact and gives an analysis. You got the wrong number table, because it's starting with not returning transfers to 1.7% of GDP, which is the law. So, if rightly so, this is why the parliamentary group of the URS has shared a table with the right account, which is based on respect for the law that we are not changing, that the basis for the transfer account remains 1.7% of GDP. You'll see that there are the biggest ones for the least and the poorest municipalities. I'll read you some examples. First, there are a lot of towns and municipalities in Serbia that through this proposal will have as many as 60 per cent of the local budget as this year. In the first place, Black Grass, whose budget will be higher by as much as 127%, more than twice. Ražanj 89%, Golubac 88%, Shop 87%, Gadjin Han 85% higher budget, Bosilegrad 84%, Rekovac 83%, Žabovica 82% higher budget, Žitorje 81%, Frogs 79% higher budget, Krupanj 78%, Bela Palanka 76%, Osijek 75%, Merošina 75%, Doljevac 74%, Knic, Babušnica, Mali Crnića 74% higher budget. Also, Kursumlija 72%, Lebane 71%, Dog 71% higher budget, Opovo, Blace, Svrljag 69% higher budget, Ljig, Varvarin 68% higher budget, Sjavnica 66% higher budget, White Church 66% higher budget, Rata 65% higher budget, Ljubovija 63%, Tutin 63% higher budget, Vladimirs 62% higher budget, Nova Crnja 62% higher budget and Cicivac 61%, Koceljeva 61% and Major 60%. So 37 cities and municipalities in Serbia will have more than 60% of the local income as a consequence of this law, because all municipalities in the fourth group get, not only the transfer as today, but with respect to the law, but also the additional transfer of solidarity from the money that Belgrade gives to everyone else. I'm going to give you an example of several municipalities from different parts of our country. The trade, in the far south, is one of the poorest municipalities in Serbia. This year, the Shop receives from the Republic of 58 million dinars in the name of the transfer, because the law is being violated. Next year, with all due respect to the law that I hope we will adopt, the Shop would receive 88 million dinars from a non-purpose transfer and an additional 53 million from a transfer of solidarity, plus twice as much as a profit tax. So the trade budget would be 97 million dinars higher than today. The crop that was also discussed in public this year has a transfer from the Republic of 115 million dinars. Next year, there will be 173 million, plus 53 million transfers of solidarity and plus twice as much income tax. That's 151 million more than today. Today, there are 132m dinars of transfers in western Serbia, with 200m next year, plus 53m transfers of solidarity. So Krupanj totals 161 million dinars more than today. Today, the dog receives only 134m dinars of transfers in eastern Serbia, and will receive 202m transfers and 53m transfers of solidarity, plus twice the profit tax. So Kučevo will have 164 million dinars more budget than today. The session in Sandzak this year has a transfer of 218 million. Next year, there should be 329m transfers and an additional 53m dinars of solidarity transfers. So there's a total budget increase of 224 million dinars next year. And one municipality from Vojvodina, the White Church this year has 114 million dinar transfers. It should have 172, with respect to the law, plus a 53m solidarity transfer and a total budget increase of 165m dinars next year. So, the point is that all cities and municipalities, literally, get an increase in budgets, with large cities making the biggest growth based on an increase in income from profit taxes, while small and undeveloped ones get much more based on the increase in current transfers. This is the effect of this law in cities and municipalities, giving more money to those who are least and least developed. One can certainly wonder – how has this been done in the world? I'll take the opportunity to point out some international comparisons. The local source of income that all states have is property tax. In all countries, property tax is the most stable source of income, but it dominates the structure of total local income, above all, in the Anglo-Saxon countries. For example, in New Zealand 55% of total local income is from property tax, in Australia is 39%, in Canada 38%. The only countries in Europe where the property tax dominates as local income are centralist countries like France, where 34% of total local income comes from property taxes. In Serbia, in 2010, 11% of local incomes came from property tax. The profit tax is the second most dominant source of local income in the world and, above all, in European countries. It is mostly represented in the Scandinavian countries, but also in the former transition countries, i.e. in the former Socialist bloc countries, which, meanwhile, have joined the EU. That is why we have proposed, given first of all this second, that in Serbia the income tax becomes a dominant local income, not a republican income, as it has been so far. Namely, in Norway, Finland, a total of 40 per cent and more of the total local income accounts for total income from the profit tax. In Denmark, 46%, in Baltic countries over 40%. In comparable countries with Serbia, the situation is next. In Slovakia, which has a similar population of Serbia. Once, 20-30 years ago, we were more developed, they were now ten times ahead of us by gross domestic product, at export value. Slovakia gives 90% of the salary tax to its cities, municipalities and regions. Total Slovakia's 39% of total local income is income from the profit tax. It is also 39% in Romania and 39% in Croatia. So in these countries, 39% of total local income is income from profit tax. In Serbia, the situation is such that this year 11% of total local income is property tax and 23% of earnings tax. With a proposal from the United Regions of Serbia, 37% of total revenues will be driven by the profit tax and 9% from the property tax. Countries that are not centralist in Europe have a total income from property taxes of less than 5%. You can look at it in all other countries. I must say that property tax, salary tax and, of course, transfers, or donations from the central government are not the only local incomes in certain countries. Some countries leave their cities and municipalities part of the company's profits tax. These are, above all, Czech Republic and Austria, some even part of the value added tax, although it is mainly used to finance the region. It is the Czech Republic, Hungary, Austria, Italy and Romania, and some even part of the excise on fuel. It's Austria, Italy and Spain. So different countries use different fiscal instruments to finance local self-government. But what motivated us to propose a profit tax, as one of the essential future elements of financing cities and municipalities, is the fact that it already exists in the present system. We're just increasing the percentage that needs to be left with cities and municipalities. Another thing, I think, in the future, you should think, of course, about perfecting this system. I want to take this opportunity to say that we're not the first ones to talk about this. We're not the first to suggest anything, and we don't think this is the end of the fiscal centralisation process, but we think this is a serious start of the fiscal centralisation process, because what should probably be the next step is when cities and municipalities get 80% of the income tax, and then, in the next step, the cities and municipalities are allowed to determine the tax rate, the salary tax. Therefore, that the Republic determines at the tax rate of Jagodina or Opova or Subotica, but rather that cities and municipalities themselves determine the tax rate, but to limit the maximum amount of the rate, so as not to burden the economy. So, this exists in Scandinavian countries as a solution, where on that part of the income belonging to the bar, local self-government itself determines what the rate of salary tax will be. If today is 12% of the profit tax rate, why not allow India or Jagodina or any other city to say that there will be 8% in their city, while others will choose 10%? Let the cities compete and attract both domestic and foreign investors through the level of the profit tax rate. We think that this is the next stage in the independence of local self-government, where 80 percent of the income tax should also be the own income of local self-government, and if it becomes its own income, and not granted, as today, then there is no reason not to allow cities and municipalities to determine their own rate, because they are essentially responsible for the benefit of the citizens of those whom the people choose, to respond to how their place will develop. Also, we believe that when cities and municipalities receive this substantial amount of funding under this law, that one part of the funds should be mandatory to the purposes and local communities, because today the local communities represent the only place where people are directly chosen in name and name. Only the President of the Republic and the President of the Council and members of the Council of the Local Communities shall be elected in the name and name directly by the choice of citizens. The local community doesn't have any jurisdiction today, not to mention revenues. It must certainly be the next phase in decentralisation. Why? Because the person who lives in a region is most interested in developing his own neighborhood, much more than the one who lives in Belgrade or in another city. The essence of decentralisation is to give motive to those who are most interested in working most to develop their neighborhoods and neighborhoods. As far as the Fiscal Council's analysis is concerned, and of course, the IMF which referred to it, firstly, I must regret to conclude that the analysis of the Fiscal Council, which was delivered to us, to the MPs, is wrong, unilateral, that it comes only from the Republic's revenue side of the budget and that it does not consider at all the cost side of the republican budget and does not consider the income and expenditure side of the local budgets. So in this letter we received, the Fiscal Council is only talking about a possible hole in the Republic budget. They're not interested in an existing hole in the local budget. Do you know how many holes are in local budgets today? At least these 16 billion, for as many as the municipalities have been cut off through transfers. What are municipalities and cities doing today? The municipalities and cities today are in debt to fill the gaps in their budgets or raise companies, for example. Kruševac has over half a million dinars of company companies for business entrepreneurs and thus replaces the hole in local budgets or raises taxes on citizens' property or raises other taxes. That's no way to close local holes. If this law was not passed and if the current law were to remain in force, this is important to know because of the comparison with the fiscal council's analysis, so cities and municipalities should receive 20 billion dinars next year alone, based on the respect of the current laws alone. That's what's true. So by respecting the current law, cities and municipalities in the following year would get 20 billion dinars more than this one, and through this law they would get 43 billion dinars more. So the difference added through the increase in income tax rates is 23 billion dinars, net. It's the effect essentially of this law. Why? Because, and that fiscal council is also wrong, they say it does not say anything in this law about the bulky side of the republican budget. That's not true. The coefficients we've given to reduce the transfer of cities from the first group of development are actually interventions on the bulky side of the republican budget. It can be clearly seen through this law. So we suggest that transfers to large cities be double reduced, only to small municipalities to remain the same or to increase. Secondly, we believe that the Republic no longer needs the budget for next year to plan the Republic's expenditures of local character. When cities and municipalities get this money that they're missing right now, then there's no need for the Republic to build rural roads anymore, to build waterways, sewers, districts, it's all going to be able to do it, and we're going to leave it at will to decide what they need, what's the priority. Some say – they do not know people in Babusnica or in Subotica to do so. That's what the centralists say. The centralists start with the Republic knowing everything without cities and municipalities knowing anything. That's the basic problem of centralism. If you don't give more money to cities and municipalities, they'll never get in a position to show what they know and what they don't know. What is a fact, a permanent conference of cities and municipalities has one good proposal that is not related to this law. It is that by adopting this law, when cities get the opportunity to make twice as much as taxes on earnings, they eventually leave themselves to citizens and municipalities and control in collecting income taxes. This means that local tax administrations, except that they are administering property tax today, should in the future get the authority to control and collect income taxes, as it will be dominant local tax revenues. Also, labour inspection should move one part to the local level, since cities and municipalities will be motivated to control whether anyone works black, whether taxes are paid, because that tax will depend on the local budget. So there is a motive to increase the collection of local revenues. We believe that these proposals are good for the Standing Conferences of Cities and municipalities on the Committee on Local Self-Government and that in those laws that regulate it in the coming period it should be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, I took the opportunity to try and explain the benefits of the proposed model of funding local self-government. I think this is good, literally for all cities and municipalities, regardless of who's in power. Today is one party, tomorrow there will be another, both in the Republic and in the local. It's perfectly normal. But this law gives cities and municipalities the opportunity to finally not say that Belgrade is taking everything away from them, because these are the accusations that I, as a Belgrader, suffer at every turn, because everyone today, from the Kings to Somboro, says – only Belgrade and Novi Sad are developing. Is that true? Yes, it is. Why is that? I don't think that's because people who work in the province or the Republic want to. But the system is wrong. The system is legally pushing everything towards Belgrade and Novi Sad. Without a system change, no intervention in some other areas will be possible. And the change of system means first the adoption of this law on the financing of local self-government, then the return of property to cities and municipalities and finally, at the last stage, and this should probably be the easiest, I wonder why it is the most difficult, direct choice of mayors and not to make it the choice of party headquarters in Belgrade. Because I don't know what the party heads are afraid of. There are some party heads sitting here and I'm asking you - what are you afraid of? Why don't you let the citizens of Loznica, Smederev, Kučev, choose their own mayor? Why should you set him up? I hope we have a constructive discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56265	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want the word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56266	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that you were obliged to, in accordance with Article 27 of this Law's Proposer, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, since he has offended the institution of our parliament. The fiscal council, Mrs. Covic, we formed to help us work. It is perfectly acceptable for us to interpret the drafts of this law differently. But it is unacceptable to humiliate these people, to insult and to expect that everyone in this House will agree to it. We expect you to protect the elemental order in today's debate, and the elemental order obliges us to respect facts and reasoned debate. We've been listening to 35 minutes of legislators, where he's at least dealt with facts and arguments, and the most inconclusive insinuations that have spent his otherwise infinite self-esteem so far. On behalf of our MPs here, and I believe in the name of some other colleagues and colleagues, I think we have a duty to protect the Fiscal Council. Otherwise, I suggest that, in accordance with your powers at the next session, you put an end to the agenda – putting aside the power of the law on which the Fiscal Council works, and then we will be able here, as before, to organise a debate in which everything is possible and where no one commits to what he has done and for what he has taken responsibility. We can't talk like that and we don't agree to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56267	There's no damage to article 27. I listened very carefully to the promoter. He has his own position on the Fiscal Council report and has tried to explain it in a decent language. In that regard, it does not matter whether I think he is right about his argument or not, I am obliged only to follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that prohibit insult. He didn't cross that line and that's why he wasn't even warned. What he made in his speech, which I assume is your remark, is that the fiscal council was wrong in his report and did not take all the data into account. That's the attitude of the MP, not an insult, but hopefully the beginning of the debate. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? Here's a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56268	Mrs. Comic, I'm not happy with your explanation. I understand how you act as chairman, but if you make an insight into the stenographic notes, you will see that Mr Dinkic spoke in a completely different dictionary than the one you offered as an interpretation. This is not about disagreements with the views of the Fiscal Council, but about accusations that the Fiscal Council is cheating on parliament. We disagree.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56269	For the word "deception," we're really going to consult a stenogram. I don't think he used it, but he made his point about the fiscal council being wrong, that's right. I don't think he did it in an offensive way. I am quite certain that MP Mladjan Dinkic will apologize to the members of the Fiscal Council if he is found to have the wrong attitude. This is how we round up the debate on whether or not the promoter has made an insult to the institution chosen by this assembly. Both the Fiscal Council and other regulatory bodies have the right to error, as well as all other human beings. But we all have an obligation to apologize if we feel we've made unwarranted accusations. The People's Messenger Balint Pastor has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56270	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, there is a custom in Serbia for certain legal acts to be added. And this state had a Happy Constitution, so the Oktroiran Constitution, then the Vidovdan Constitution, so now it has a Mitrovica Constitution. I would characterise this bill as a pre-election bill. I'm going to try to explain why I'm thinking this, and I'm going to make some dilemmas about this bill. I hope to receive some useful answers based on which we, until voting day, will be able to formulate our position on the vote. Let me tell you right now. Don't expect us to vote today, Mr. Dinkic. We will wait for answers about our dilemmas, about our questions, wait to see what kind of amendments will be submitted, wait for what the final version of this bill will look like, and at the latest in the voting day, we will decide how we will plead on this bill, and the voting day will be, according to our knowledge, in about 10 days. Why did I say there are dilemmas and certain questions about this bill? Because I was preparing for this discussion and debate today by taking the paper and trying to write which, in my opinion, are the positive sides which are the negative sides of this bill. As you can see, this piece of paper where the negative sides are, it's much more extensive than this first part. Perhaps in today's discussion and in the days to come you will convince us that we are looking at this thing wrong. Let's start with these positive sides first. For example, local self-government will have 80% of the income tax and that is certainly positive. There is only one question – do you know, and I am sure you know, that according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the current budget and previous budgets, 18% of the income from the income of the income tax on the territory of the AP Vojvodina belongs to the AP Vojvodina. That means that according to this bill 80% will get local self-government, 18% will get AP Vojvodina. I can't think of you as a regionalist wanting to take the middle level of the AP Vojvodina 18% from the budget, as much as it gets all these years ago, but then it turns out that only 2% remains for the Republic. When we look only at the AP Vojvodina, we haven't heard anything about how you imagine to maintain the current deficit level if you take 16% from the Republic, or leave only 2%, since 18%, will continue to receive, the AP Vojvodina from the income tax. As for the transfer of solidarity, you said the city of Belgrade would give up its transfer and that the funds would be redistributed to local self-government. That may be so, but there are two problems. The first is that, of course, you did not talk about it, about 50% of the employees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have a residence on the territory of the city of Belgrade. So the biggest winner of this bill is the city of Belgrade. We haven't heard anything about it. You were talking about Belgrade being the most developed city, and that's certainly true, but we haven't heard anything about around 50% of the employees living in Belgrade's territory and that's why Belgrade is winning, if we look at this bill and this solution. The second thing, when we talk about solidarity, we think solidarity is a noble quality and we are certainly for solidarity, but we know what this solidarity looked like over the years and decades ago. Believe me, Mr. Dinkic, people in Vojvodina get chilly when they hear the word solidarity. For what? Because the citizens of the AP Vojvodina have built both Kosovo and Metohija, and Macedonia, and Montenegro and other former members of the SFRY and we know what this solidarity looks like. On the other hand, for years, we've been listening to the AP Vojvodina need to be solid and we need to accept the reality that Vojvodina doesn't get the funds it's supposed to get based on the Constitution of the Republic budget. That is what many have said and most of the budgets of previous years have been counter-constitutional as regards the financing of the AP Vojvodina. You know very well, you were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Regional Development and Economy. And the previous budgets were, as you said, and against the law in relation to funding local self-government. You even said, quite frankly, a little bit, that local self-government was cut off by about 50 billion dinars over the last three years. You just forgot to say who was then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic and Regional Development. This is why we believe that solidarity is, at first sight, an attractive category, unfortunately in Serbia solidarity does not work in a way that would work in civilised countries. On the other hand, just two years ago, Mr Dinkic, in March 2009, you said that Vojvodina should finance Corridor 10 in its territory from the AP Vojvodina budget and that one part of the budget expenditure in health, education, social institutions should also finance AP Vojvodina, so that it has no original income and has no property, as no local self-government today has its own property. Serbia is the only country in Europe in which regions, i.e. the AP, have no property. I wonder how Vojvodina should build a highway on its territory, though, you said it should work out of the 200 million that Vojvodina was supposed to receive from the NIS sales price, and as you know very well, and you were the Deputy Prime Minister, Vojvodina received only 50 per cent of the funds it was supposed to receive, from the NIS sales price, and 40 has not yet received, as foreseen by the 2009 RS Budget Act. So, 40% of the NIS sales price, Vojvodina did not receive until today's day, and that item exists in the republican 2009 budget. You didn't even talk about what obligations local self-government will have in the next period. I don't think it could happen under this law, but we don't know if there will be such proposals for the next months and the next years, and we know from the experience that if Vojvodina gets any more funding, or how much minimum it needs to get under the RS Constitution, then the stories start, now you're funding everything in your territory, and you were saying the same thing in 2009 and I was just talking about it. We, unlike you, think that there is a need to increase the jurisdiction of local self-government of municipalities and cities, but of course in a way that local self-governments also receive adequate resources to carry out these new responsibilities. I don't think, unlike you, it's natural for the Republic to be the founder of primary schools in its territory. I don't think it's natural and I don't think it's in line with some European standards. To say another thing about it, it is not natural for the founder of secondary schools on the territory of the AP Vojvodina to be AP Vojvodina, and the founder of all primary schools in Serbia's territory to be the Republic of Serbia. It's just not natural and we don't know at this point what obligations and responsibilities will go along with slightly larger revenues, whether some powers will become obligations, if we're going to listen to stories about it next year, here's more resources, so now you're getting along. You said, Mr Dinkic, that the republic will not finance the construction of rural roads and some infrastructure projects in the territory of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. That sounds very nice, but I don't think local self-government, local self-government units agree that the price of slightly higher income is that the republic doesn't finance anything from infrastructure projects on the territory of these municipalities and cities. It'd be like telling a kid, here's your allowance, so get on with it, I won't pay for your schooling, I won't buy your textbooks, I won't pay for your scholarship, I won't pay for your rent at the studios, here's your allowance, so get on with it. I think it's the wrong way to look at things and that local self-government units will show, they won't be able to get out of these larger revenues, and we don't argue that all local self-governments will have more income and these revenues won't be enough for local self-government units to build everything on their own territory. You haven't convinced us about the deficit that will be found in the republican budget. With regard to the deficit, I would like to advise you that if you think that members of the Fiscal Council are not carrying out their duties, your responsibilities sufficiently professionally, then you should initiate a procedure for the replacement of these people. The Fiscal Council should have highly moral people and highly skilled people. If you think these people aren't like that, then you have every basis to initiate a procedure to replace these people. Speaking of deficits, you know very well that just a few days ago there was a protest of farmers in Serbia. I purposely say in Serbia and not only in Vojvodina, because they protested outside the AP Vojvodina on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. These warlords have been given an explanation that, however, they will receive subsidies of up to 100 hectares, but this year only up to 30 hectares, and the rest in January next year, as the payment of all these subsidies to 100 hectares would mean an increase in deficits that the Republic cannot withstand. So how is it possible that warlords couldn't get everything that belongs to them this year under government regulations, and as far as this bill is concerned, it's not a problem to increase the deficit? Also when we're on the deficit, we don't know how this bill would jeopardize and would, but I believe that, this bill and this law, if voted in this form, would compromise the future budgets of the AP Vojvodina. You know very well what pains we torture every December when the Republic's budget is to be adopted. You know very well how difficult it is to provide, unfortunately, in this country respect for the Constitution. You know very well that it is very difficult to always call for solidarity, it is always called for a deficit, and if the deficit of the Republic increases with a few dozen billion dinars, I'm afraid in December of this year we won't be able to ensure the respect of the Constitution and that the AP Vojvodina will be the biggest loser of this bill. As I said earlier, Belgrade will be the biggest winner of this bill. With regard to the financing of Vojvodina, you have submitted another draft bill in the procedure, which is the law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, which provides for the AP Vojvodina to be taken by 30% of those assets that are now in force under the Vojvodina Act. This year means a billion and four hundred million dinars less to fund the AP Vojvodina. When we know that there is a constitutional provision in this country that Vojvodina should receive at least 7%, with three weeks of capital investment in the territory of Vojvodina, every dinar means. You suggest that Vojvodina be taken with a billion and four hundred million dinars. You've been talking a little bit about how the province can do projects, you've been thinking about the AP Vojvodina. I don't know if you know, you should know, since by three months ago you were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Business and Regional Development, that the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund should have received three billion and 600 million dinars, 3.6 billion dinars, as planned for the whole year. I don't know if you know the fact that the Vojvodina of the 3.6 billion dinars, the amount she was supposed to get, by the end of May only got 600 million, means 0.6 billion dinars. How does Vojvodina finance projects this way? How can we keep in life a construction company that has invested its assets and are now on the verge of bankruptcy, and there are such construction firms, unfortunately, in Vojvodina, dozens of them? So how can we talk about fiscal decentralisation, regionalisation, when the Republic doesn't respect the budget that was voted just five months ago in this high house? As I said at the beginning, we will listen to your arguments very carefully. We wait for answers, among other things, and for these questions, which I mentioned earlier, or asked. In voting day, we'll decide whether your arguments are convincing. In the end, I would just like to say that since its establishment, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has been pushing for decentralisation and regionalisation, for strengthening and municipalities and cities and autonomous provinces and local communities. I don't wish I had to hear it one more time that those who have certain arguments and who have certain dilemmas about the bill are centralists. I'm sorry, but I don't feel myself as a centralist, I don't feel like a centralist party, but I think that decentralisation should be dealt with seriously, not for pre-election purposes, and that we need to think a little ahead and think about what the deficit of the Republic will look like, how the Constitution will be respected, how it will provide Vojvodina with what belongs to it under the Constitution and how local self-government will be able to live and survive in the next period, when we know that this state, or the government, is breaking its laws, and the Budget Act and the Law on Local Self-Government, and all that, unfortunately, in this country, should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56271	The word has a proposing representative, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56272	Thank you for these questions, and I'll try to answer them. First of all, as regards the financing of the province, as the current Law on the financing of local self-government does not deal with the financing of Vojvodina, it does not deal with this law, because it does not belong to it. Unfortunately, Serbia has only one formal region today, it is the AP Vojvodina. If we had more, surely we should have a system law that regulates the financing of the region. That's one thing. So we don't deal with it here, and that's not the place in this law. I think it's bad for Vojvodina that the participation of the Republic or the revenues of the Vojvodina are determined by the Budget Act every year. There's no certainty there then in revenue. It is true that this percentage of 18% was established and has been valid for years, but it can change tomorrow. You're right, it can change if someone who works the Budget Act, which is finance ministers, suggests otherwise. I think we should do one moment and the Finance Act, not just the Vojvodina, but when other regions are set up to fund the region, as we now have the Law on financing local self-government. Now I would point to something that you simply may have overlooked and perhaps you were wrong. It is not true that this solidarity can even theoretically go to the harm of Vojvodina, because Belgrade alone is a local self-government that will no longer receive republican transfers and management that money is the basis for transfer of solidarity. So there's no theoretical chance that anyone from Vojvodina pays that solidarity, that dilemma is simply wrong. Also, Belgrade Mayor Mr. Gilas proposed an amendment, which we want to accept, to reduce Belgrade's participation in profit tax to 70%, so that Belgrade alone has 70% of the profit tax and all the other 80% of the profit tax. In that case, Belgrade would have a bigger city budget by 11% next year, while all other local self-governments would literally have more than that. Black grass, I've already set an example, 127% budget increase. There's no concern, and it's not true that this law is getting Belgrade back. The smallest increase in budgets, in fact, would have Belgrade, as it renounces the Republic transfer has a lower percentage of the income tax left over to it than others. Now one key issue and a question, as is true that today many towns and municipalities within Serbia are threatened because the Republic essentially attracts itself and doesn't leave enough for them, so I think that's the situation in Vojvodina as well. I think cities and municipalities in Vojvodina should be strengthened. The province at the moment, I agree that there is not enough funds to fund what is under the Constitution, but it is not so weak, such as weak cities and municipalities in Vojvodina. So, first of all, we think that we need to strengthen cities and municipalities throughout Serbia, and then in Vojvodina, too, and then see what cities and municipalities in Vojvodina can do for themselves and for which they don't need the help of the province, and what it is they can't do for themselves and for what the province needs to help. I don't think it's good that today the Capital Investment Fund is working not only on regional projects or some important local projects, but it even works on projects like, I'm going to give an example of a municipality where your mayor is in Vienna – the creation of a ceiling at a local library. I think the local library is important, but if Becay had more money, he shouldn't have had it done by the Capital Investment Fund, and that's exactly what we suggest, that Vienna, Sombor, Zrenjanin, Kikinda, Sremska Mitrovica, get bigger local budgets, that they depend less on not only the Republic but, of course, the province. We believe that decentralisation should not be stopped just for the decentralisation of the Republic, and decentralisation of the province should be done. We also have a centralized province. I'm not sure whether the province meets the needs of all the citizens of Vojvodina with equal quality at this time. In that sense, I cannot agree with your argument that the Law on Agricultural Land would damage the Vojvodjans, because it is true that if 100% of the law were to be accepted, the income from the lease of state agricultural land would remain with the municipalities, it would result in both Sečanja and Sombor, and Subotica, and Kanjiža, all municipalities would receive it. Would we cut the circuit budget on that basis? I would, but I think that's a good thing. It's better that municipalities get more money and do some local things themselves, and then the province only does regional projects and those local projects that the municipalities can't do on their own. So, I think our country should be built from below, from base, from local community, to municipalities, to the top, not the other way around. Of course that's where the question of looking at the world is now, that's philosophy, what's important here, what isn't? Someone thinks it's the most important republic, then the province, then the locals. We consider the most important municipalities, then the province, then the Republic. We believe that the Republic should do what its job is, defense, security, i.e. fiscal national policy, monetary policy, social protection, pensions and everything else. We are opposed to giving municipalities new powers, except for those now proposed by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities in the area of control of tax collection on earnings and control of labour inspection. Therefore, these two competences should naturally be increased, because if they already have the jurisdiction to pay taxes, the municipality should have the opportunity to control their payment. Of course, I am prepared, as head of the United Regions of Serbia's Parliament Club, to discuss this with you, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians in the coming days and to respond to the dilemmas. I think we need to make a functional system, that cities and municipalities have enough money to do local projects, that the province can help them do what they cannot do on their own, and that, first of all, they focus on regional projects, and that the Republic is doing exclusively national projects and regionals in those regions that do not now have their own income, which is everyone else except Vojvodina at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56273	The People's MP, Balint Pastor, will be entitled to a replica. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic has injured Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at least two ways. If I understood him well, he said there was only one Autonomous province of Vojvodina in the Republic of Serbia. I want to inform him that, according to the Constitution, there is an Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. Second, insulting the dignity of the National Assembly is just today’s session. This bill should represent some forgiveness of sins for Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, that someone who has created a system in this country for 10 years, a system of government, a system of government in local self-government and a system of funding, criticises the same system. I'm sorry, Mr. Dinkic, but since 2000, you've been participating in key state functions in this country's leadership. In Vienna, the library should be created, rather than the economy rises. I'm sorry, Fadip. Vienna is in bankruptcy. Who's responsible for that? Is the Republic Government responsible where you sit or someone else? This is unrecorded in parliamentary practice, that someone who has been in power for 10 years criticises this same authority and invites us to change the system, someone who created this system, someone who has participated in the destruction of both the states and the provinces and local self-government for 10 years, is now proposing a funny bill of ten members, where the same jurisdiction of local self-government remains, the same jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, and allegedly requires that more money remain. I'm sorry, there's no civilised and democratic state to know if one party, the ruling party or the opposition? Here is a previous question – who is the government in Serbia and who is the opposition? The debate on this 10-member bill is ridiculous until we get an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56275	There's no damage to article 107. Article 107 cannot violate a MP, as you well know, but you can say that the chairman has violated or violated a member of the Rules of Procedure. You are not interrupted during the attempt to explain, but I ask all the MPs, who intend to receive the word by using, or abuse the right to receive the word of harm to the Rules of Procedure, not to do so and that all MPs will have room for replication, for mutual explanations, and that there is no need to abuse the right to receive the word to speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure. I didn't interrupt you, but I expected you to see what might be in the speech of the MP and former Deputy Prime Minister for a reason to be warned, but since you didn't do it, then nothing. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mrs. Comic, if you please, I will quote in article 107 concerning your interpretation that only you, as chairman, can harm the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56277	People's MP, you're reading the wrong member. You should read a member who gives you the right to receive a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56278	Therefore, Article 27a concerning Article 107. I think that's what legal language says.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56279	Please, if you want to talk about the right to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, quote a member who gets that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56280	So, Article 27, you've injured, which is related to Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56281	He's not a member of 107, another member explains how the chairman of the injured Rules of Procedure, so please read that article.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56282	So, "The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "I have drawn the conclusion from this provision of the Rules of Procedure that Mr Dinkic has injured the Rules of Procedure with his own exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56283	People's MPs, Member 103, is the basis for the word. Thank you. National MP Balint Pastor has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56284	Mr Dinkic, you said earlier that the issue of philosophy and taste that the level of government is for which political parties are most important and you said that you primarily advocate as many local self-governments as possible and cities as possible. We, Mr. Dinkic, advocate respect for the Constitution. As you know, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for how much APV with how much resources it needs, and this same constitution defines the structure of these funds. As long as there is no law on the original incomes of APV or on the financing of APV, unfortunately, the AP is forced to, or the AP can only count on the funds it receives or does not receive from the republican budget, along with some original revenues that are truly minimal. On the other hand, speaking of the Constitution, you, Mr Dinkic, support this government because it leads this country to the European Union. We also support this government and there is no difference between you and us on this matter. You know very well that a country that does not respect its own constitution has nothing to look for in the EU. The constitution is the cornerstone of the EU, and therefore we cannot support a law that can lead to the constitution not being respected, that Vojvodina does not receive the funds that belong to it... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'll just finish my sentence, please. This law, no matter what it does not deal with the Duke, this danger of itself latently, unfortunately, contains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56285	Thank you. Proposer representative Mladjan Dinkic was registered. You have the right to receive your word. Did you want a word? I'm just asking you to register with the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56286	Just for a little while. So, all Vojvodina municipalities, as well as all other municipalities in Serbia, are getting much more through this law. So, there is no danger that any municipality in Vojvodina has been cut off and the total gain is quite large. The second thing, I really want to say to all the MPs, what I'm criticising right now is not a criticism of this government, it's not a criticism of the last government, it's a criticism of a system that hasn't been changed. This system has not been established by the past government, this government, this system has existed almost since 1945 until today in Serbia, since the 1990s for sure. This is a criticism of the fact that the system hasn't changed. If you want to ask me if I feel part of the responsibility, because like you in the last 20 years I've been part of the ruling coalitions, and you've all been, I feel, and I think the system needs to be changed. It's better if he's been changed before. If it hasn't changed before, let's change it together now. So, these are criticisms of the existing government, the previous government, this is a criticism of a centralist system that essentially allows the poor to become poorer and richer. This does not depend on any political party in power. Whoever comes to power tomorrow, if the system doesn't change, still the memory, the grains, Blaze, will be getting poorer and poorer. Only a change of system can stop it and then it won't matter who's in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56287	Right on line, MP Pastor Ballint. Are you registered for that? Yeah. ) National MP Ivan Andric, you will also be entitled to replication. I ask you all to participate together in the exchange of arguments and in the opinion and that the time that is intended for the exchange of such a species, therefore, when any MP wishes to respond to the promoter is used as a right to replication. It's so much easier for me to have a session, and I hope we can clear up together all the ones that we're all sitting here together for what's the difference in arguments. Balint Pastor, Ivan Andric, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56288	Mr Dinkic, you know far better than I do that local self-government is local self-government and that AP is AP. No one argues that all local self-government will have more resources under this bill, I said it unequivocally. But there is also a guarantee of the financing of the APV and it is one constitutional guarantee that is thus foreseen by the Constitution and one country that wants to become an EU member should simply and must respect. So much to say about this issue, we also advocate the decentralisation of municipalities and cities, we advocate stronger local communities, and we also advocate stronger AP within Serbia, but, once again, we believe that under this bill there is a danger that Vojvodina as an AP will not receive the funds it needs under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We can vote for this proposal only if we can be sure that Vojvodina as APV will not be abolished on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Republic Government and all future republican governments will not be prevented from respecting Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that regulates the way the APV is financed. I also don't understand why you didn't propose a law on the financing of APV when you already proposed a whole set of laws in the area of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56289	Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric, two minutes, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56290	This may seem interesting on the side, this argument between members of the ruling coalition, but it is offensive for us to attend this attempt in which he wants to transfer responsibility for something that has been done. I am not the answer to that as a folk MP because, for example, the direct election of mayors was abolished in 2007. She abolished the government that you were in. So don't tell us it's a shared responsibility. I'm not part of a ruling coalition that didn't give local self-government units 50 billion. I've always voted against it. You're part of that ruling coalition, you didn't give that money. Try to change the party's name, not only yours, but also Rasim Ljajic, to avoid responsibility and be the only way to win the election, with the support of the DS, for us are the most guilty, is a legitimate attempt, it's politics, but don't come and insult us by saying that we are all responsible. No, we're not responsible. The government, whose component you are, has not given money to local self-government. All of this wouldn't have been if you'd given that money. This is not a decentralisation law, this is a law that you can't repay because you can't repay your debt and you're afraid of choices that are ahead of us, you're cutting off someone else's debt that you've made back. That's the point. As long as we're discussing such arguments, we can discuss and see if it's true or not and to what extent, but we're not centralists. The chairman allows those who are against this law to be not centralists, as the French are not centralists either. We stand up for a bad solution. That's what you said, that France is a centralist country. Everyone's wrong, it's just impossible for you to make a mistake, and the fiscal council and the IMF and France, everyone's wrong, but you're not wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56291	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has been reported. He wants to use his right as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56292	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's try Mr. Dinkic to have this conversation by speaking the language of facts and arguments and being open. It's the only way we can talk to you. First, let's start with what's positive about everything. The energy you invest in trying to affirm an important political problem in your mind is for the respect. Without you, our party would probably have to wait for power to raise the issue of decentralisation in Serbia. This is how we're in a situation right now to talk about it seriously. The problem is that we want a serious conversation, in a humiliating atmosphere, and that you and your own personal energy, but also the energy of society, which you measure with the 500,000 signatures you've received, abused and completely disabling through the bill we're talking about today. You're not to blame for that. We believe that such a thing would not have been possible if the ruling coalition had not agreed to it and not some ruling coalition without names and last names, but Tadic, Canak, Pastor, Ljajic, Draskovic, Dačić, Ugljanin, of course Dragan Markovic, Veroljub Stevanović and PUPS, Krkobic. They decided that at the end of their term, buying weeks and months until the election, sacrificing public finances, terribly burdening the economy and compromising one of the most important ideas without which we cannot change society, which is the idea of reforming the state. Mr Dinkic, we will not get anywhere if Serbia is governed, and it is as you described it, poor, poor, humiliated, if it is rules in a five-hour debate in which most will remain silent, and you are to flaunt with several MPs of the opposition. I was pleased to talk to you when you asked me to and told every member of our party that we should support your fight for the decentralisation of the country. We didn't care at all what he said, let's say, our mayor of New Vienna, commenting on your visit to the line to knock on the open door, but I also asked you, Mr Dinkic, to find support within your ruling coalition for such a thing so that then, together, through the institutions of this country that still exist, come to a quality solution and organisation of the country that will allow us to start solving terrible problems. Instead, we received your views on the President of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia, which has a 60-year tradition, which I do not want to repeat here because they are offensive and cannot be the political language of a normal, democratic Serbia, the language of personal insults addressed to the Mayor of Paracina. After that, language of insult sent to the representatives of the Fiscal Council who only criticized your solution and nothing more. The last time you performed on your own in the elections was with the slogan "Profectity Before Politics", and today instead of an argumentable response to reasoned criticism, you throw dust in the eyes of this people with the attitude to say that there are some academic figures there. Well, who should be discussing fiscal decentralisation, street jills or those who've spent their whole lives studying for the job? What happens to the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government, which exists with the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Neither did she answer, nor did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Here we are here in the debate where we should talk about 10 members of the fiscal decentralisation Act. What was it that we heard from you for 35 minutes while you were talking? Let's ignore the statistics, we've seen that you don't really understand this country's past or you're misreading it tragically. I would be happy if, in the mandate of the future government of local self-government, the degree of rights, freedom and responsibilities that they had in the one-party state until 1991 or 1989, when the new constitution came into force. Mr. Dinkic, that's when the municipalities elected the first man of the police, the first man of the health center, the president of the court. The municipalities then had the right to international policymaking. They finally had the right to flee, which obliged them to, say, organise territorial protection and buy weapons and pay for the reserve, the right to their objective local information, and not to mention, further. If we're talking about this moment, Mr. Dinkic, no argument is sustainable in your interpretation of the law for which you seek support. First, we ask very clearly of you to tell us where that money will be passed on to the municipalities? We entered this year with an accepted minus 1,400,000 euros. In the following year, there is the Fiscal Council right, and not you, we must enter with a smaller budget deficit than what we have entered into this because we have made such a deal with the IMF, which also criticises you, and you are easily rejecting those criticisms, as if the IMF is asking Serbia for money rather than Serbia from the IMF. You're antagonising for no reason the poor community with those municipalities that are allegedly rich. It is not true that Mayor Dragan Gilas submitted any amendment here in the Assembly to the law, which deprives Belgrade of 10% of the money it would receive on the basis of the income tax, on behalf of poor municipalities. It could only have been done by the deputy president of the DS, because we are the party that provides most of his government in Belgrade and we would not have thought that the city, which at this point owes 590m euros, which was owed 30m euros yesterday because it can't do anything, is taking away those funds. Let's get things back to the demagogy policy that you've been in for too long. Why is decentralisation important to us? Because without effective decentralisation, there is no modernization of the country. You are your project, which is as sustainable as it has been, and it is your beautiful desire and a 1,000-euro plan for a public enterprise action, the biggest threat to this country's modernisation plan, and I will tell you why. Because of the national demagogy, which has eaten the previous 20 years of this society, in the meantime has replaced social demagogy, and you are giving the social demagogy and demagogues all the necessary arguments for the compromise and organisation of the state without which this Serbia, as it is, cannot be changed for the better. Mr. Dinkic, did you at least get one law out of these common 12 years of political action in which, as a rule, we disagreed on key issues? As a rule, in the end, it was you who turned your head from the devastating effects of the policy you insisted on. Since 1999 and that scandalous rally that we organised at the end of August to promote some non-party government, because you have imagined such a thing, through a project that you insisted on through a two-year conflict with our government during the term of office of Zoran Djindjic, through the collapse of the government of Zoran Djindjic, so that from 2004 until today, you have completely compromised the idea of reform of this country. How can we modernise the country like this? If we talk about the effects of your laws first, it's clear that 43 billion will be, because that's the percentage of 80 billion, how much is achieved in one year based on the income tax, that it will be transferred to the level of local self-government. What position, Mr. Dinkic? Well, from the Republican cash register, that cash register where we already have minus a billion and four hundred million euros. It's true that you can do that, but that's the kind of thing you need to follow both obligations or maybe you think you're going to transfer from a position where there's no money, some money you're going to find who knows where and who knows how, probably through borrowings that were planned and expected in September, new loans from the state to transfer some money to the level of local self-government until the election, and that the Republic is still equally obliged to these local self-governments? It's unsustainable and you know it very well. The fiscal council is right and the IMF is right when this parliament is drawn to the fact that this deficit, which is currently undermining the agreed deficit by 20%, and it is agreed that 3.1 or 3.2 will be increased by 2.5 points, by 60% because, Mr Dinkic, in the following year we need to reduce public spending, we need to reduce subsidies from 0.8 to 0.3, I'm talking about the economy, we need to reduce stimulated interest and subsidised loans. You promise hungry Serbia money. We have to try to put all that stuff in some system. If we're talking about decentralisation, your greatest contribution to decentralisation at this point can be to withdraw this law. Stop compromising one big idea. Mr. Dinkic, in every business, even in the business of organising the government, money is the result of some activity. Enable municipalities and cities, as a ruling coalition, a higher degree of rights and clearly defined obligations. Don't offer charity to those who are victims of the policy that was being led over the years. Give them rights and obligations. Allow the Cachans, the Valjevci, the Kragujevci to build high school like they were 150 years ago, so you will be the best in Serbia. Let people run their own catastres, take care of environmental protection, so they can choose the first police man. Make peace with the fact that in the 21st century, Vojvodina can only disappear in such an organised Serbia. And nothing more. That the first time since this country has been the average of the duchy salary is below the salary average in the rest of Serbia. It's unsustainable from the point of view of macroeconomic stability your solution, absolutely unsustainable. I can only quote the views of the IMF, the Fiscal Council and do what seems logical to me. Of course, it is unsustainable when we do not intend to spend more money in the coming years than this, and we are obliged to act contrary to the obligations we have made – to save. It's a disaster for the economy. I'm not going to quote your statements from the past. You yourself told some of these projects that you were knowingly dishonest because you expected a political benefit for those promises. But I will remind you, Mr Dinkic, that in the last few months you have said more than one, I agree with those views, that it is necessary to reduce the income tax and that the amount of the untaxable profit from 5,000 to 16, which was at that time the minimum amount of earnings in Serbia. We cannot stimulate the economy, while at the same time promising local self-government money on the sole basis of taxing profits in the same economy. Already now, and not in any of the places, in Chačka, in Uzic, in Valjevo, local self-government is asking the government to give them money that is not in a position for businesses to pay them and to take over part of the ownership of these companies that are not able to do so on the basis of the debt. That's the facts. Let's put this debate in those frames where it will give an effective result. You're right. The system's not working. But it's no good from the basics. That system cannot be changed by 10 members of one law. You said that the essence of decentralisation is in more money that will come to local self-government, to return property and directly elect the mayor. That's not true. None of these principles of yours are true. The essence of decentralisation is in the new concept of rights and obligations. In fiscal decentralisation. But in every other decentralisation. You don't mention anything like that. And those who allow you to behave this way are more responsible to us than you. You're just trying to survive politically. But we think that the survival of all these fragments of normal, reasonable stance in Serbia's politics is more important than the survival of a coalition in which everyone is against everyone. You can't open a stocking drive without all those members of the coalition trying to scratch something like that on you anymore. Who's in favour of that today? SVM criticises. Other members of the ruling coalition write amendments to your law. Who supports you in what you do? Nobody. Because they've already found a way to eliminate obvious damage that they can't escape from either. It will take effect in October, up to the new year, from the new year's new budget, this law is being put out of force, we are going to the elections – and wolf sieve and sheep in number. What's the problem then? We broke this country's spine once more. You, Mr. Dinkic, with the consent of your coalition partners, members of your electoral coalition, have deceived five million people in this country. I have nothing against successful government moves. I think it was our duty to protect you for three years, in every effort to do something positive. How did we behave even when it shot over our backs, like in the case of the Information Act? You in your coalition didn't then have the level of consent that would guarantee this society normal development, but you had a fight on one law, so you led society to the edge of the break-in that we of the LDP pulled you from. If we were right then, let's not give other examples. Then listen a little more carefully to the argument we're giving you. At this point, your law is a direct threat to those business activities based on the country's development concept, which are based on the view that Serbia needs to be increased competitiveness. Among other things, by offering fiscal relief and a more positive and favourable fiscal climate than the one in the environment. You can't make dependent municipalities and cities out of profit taxes and promise the unions that you'll increase the level of untaxable earnings to 16 or 17 grand and that you're thinking about lowering taxes from 12 to 10%. That's impossible, absolutely impossible. Another problem – this is a threat to public finances. It's jeopardizing macroeconomic stability. As of this morning, we've been called by people at the Parliament Club and asked if Dinkic's law made the dinar go 3%? You can laugh, but in this society that listens to the IMF that says there's going to be inflation and there's going to have to be a freeze of wages and pensions, that money that you want to spend is gone. Anything is possible, even that kind of social demagogy that others will use, not us. Those who lie here on the Styrofoam while you plan coalitions with them because something like that suits you right now. In that case, you can't count on our understanding. Milosevic said in 1992, listening to representatives of Belgrade University -- well, that's you, academics, but I'm interested in peasants. Then you said the same thing in 2011. To the criticism of serious people, you responded by disabling them. There's nothing factually acceptable about your arguments that you've insisted on so much. The examples from the world you state are unsustainable. The high level of fiscal decentralisation is unimaginable in transition countries. That's a fact. Well - developed and stable countries can afford that kind of freedom and benefit from it. If you need an example, see the example of the measures taken by Greece, Ireland, France and Germany in response to the crisis they faced two years ago. The suspension of fiscal decentralisation. Suspension is the right of local self-government. Because it has its price. It's very disturbing for us, Mr. Dinkic, that you're constantly running from politics and that it all ends up in some tables that none of the people can understand. Your message of getting more money will also be accepted by LDP voters, given previous experiences and the fact that this money cannot be in the country without a different organisation, including the development of political goals, they will make a distance to you. Instead, the biggest contribution to decentralisation is – put the law back, put it back into institutions. You will be able to count on our support if you build decentralisation on the concept of rights and obligations. And if the spilling from the hollow is empty, we'll be your biggest opponent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56293	20 minutes. Thank you. Proposer representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic wants a word. Since the electronic system is such that the MPs have previously signed up, I will read which MPs are currently declared to receive either a word or a right to a replica, then I must delete the list in order to be able to apply for a proposal representative, but according to the list I read will be given both the right to replication and the right to say: MPs Pastor Balint, Sasa Milenic, Aleksandar Jugovic, Zoran Krasic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. I'm asking the motionary's representative now to sign in. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56294	I really liked what you said at the beginning, Mr. Jovanovic, that we should speak in the language of facts and arguments rather than in other ways. Let's just stick to it. I really appreciate your profession as a dramatologist, but let me tell these fellow Members and our public what law can produce if it is not yet voted upon? Apropo yours, indeed, quite a banal remark that this law produces a fact of devaluation of dinars these days. What law in Serbia can produce a fact that has not yet been passed? The debate has just begun. It's apropo dramaturgy. When we talk about expertise and facts, therefore, you mentioned two things relating to the profession – sacrifice, allegedly public finances and where this money will be passed on to municipalities. I really just want to answer that, because I don't want to get into the moral qualifications that you gave during your speech. So, to know, public finances are not just central public finances, from the republican budget. Public finances include a consolidated account of the republic which means - the Republic budget, the province budget, the local budgets of all cities and municipalities. All of this together makes a system of public finances. Does Serbia have less damage if it is a major deficit for municipalities and cities and a smaller deficit for the republic? No, I don't. The damage is equal. Therefore, if the deficit of the republic is reduced on one hand to increase the deficit of cities and municipalities, it is only the excess of problems from the republic to cities and municipalities. That doesn't solve the problem. On the contrary, the problem is even bigger because people live in these cities and municipalities, not in the republic. The Republic has a large administration, but it is a small part of our population compared to all residents of all towns and municipalities in Serbia. The main problem at this point is that municipalities and cities are sacrificed to allegedly defend the republic, or central government. We suggest a way that should be fiscally neutral. How do we get to that? I answer your question directly. You're right when you say our proposal means that 43 billion dinars should belong more to cities and municipalities. From where? By twice as much as a profit tax to stay where it's created. By the way, so much less remains the republic. That's quite clear. From the republic - 43 billion towards cities and municipalities. Where, however, do we compensate for this difference? First of all, the law that we have proposed through this system of reduction coefficients of transfers to developed cities implies 20 billion dinars of less Republic spending based on transfers, when this law is passed. Because next year's transfers, if the law didn't change, would be 52 billion. By our law, 32 billion. So our law implies reducing the budget's expenditure by 20 billion. There's only a question of where to find another 23 billion, so we don't have a consolidated deficit. The 23 billion dinars are located so the Republic should not plan to implement local projects as large as these next year. This year, the Republic has 30 billion dinars of local projects. It's enough to cut it down and not plan next year, and the deficit is canceled. I'm just trying to language facts, arguments, figures to answer you to the fact that the law is fiscally neutral. Apropo Fiscal Council, I appreciate my colleagues from the Fiscal Council, these are my colleagues from the Faculty of Economics, they're right only in one fact, so they were wrong when they went from the law to continue to be broken. I can't support that because those in the table they've been delivering to all of you, they've delivered a transfer projection based on a violation of the law. It's kind of, I don't think it's professional or professional, but they're right about one thing. They said our bill doesn't show enough where the Republic will save on expenses. They overlooked, however, what I just told you, to see in the law that we're saving on transfers, so the larger cities get twice as much, and the poor get more, but in the net amount of savings is 20 billion, but it's true that we didn't find out by law what I'm talking about right now, that we should stop the Republic funding projects of local importance, because when money is transferred to cities and municipalities, they can do it on their own. I don't want to go around the NIP question, I don't have any problem with that. It is true that the NIP this year contains four billion dinars and local projects, while remaining national and regional. I suggest we put an end to it. This can only be proposed to one general member of this law, and this cannot essentially be proposed by this law, but by the budget. So such a thing cannot be arranged in one country with one law. Whoever says that is right. The 2012 budget law should eliminate these expenditures. What can be done now can be given an amendment saying that the Republic, the republican authorities, public enterprises of the republic can no longer than next year finance projects of local character. From what I understand, the DS has given such an amendment. If he gave it away, we're ready to accept it. It's not even true that income tax is an irrelevant category for local self-government. So it turns out from your exposure that the maltenes are only important transfers, and that the profit tax doesn't matter. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: It is not true, but is unstable. This year, cities and municipalities are being taxed 47 billion and 32 billion transfers. This year, many more cities are getting taxes on profits than transfers. Next year they're supposed to get 89 billion from the profit tax, even in the case of what you were worried about, to cut the profit tax rate tomorrow, this profit for municipalities is so big that it can't essentially reduce the importance of increasing the income of local self-government. So even if the profit tax was reduced, the rate from 12% to 10%, it would not significantly reduce the revenues of local self-government and their increase on this basis. However, if you ask me, our parliamentary group can only decide in part. Our attitude is clear here, I brought it out. We will argue that profit tax matter, if this law is passed and 80% belongs to cities and municipalities, that it is also transferred to the locale, that cities and municipalities independently determine the rate of income tax. Indeed, those of us living in Belgrade do not need to worry about whether one city will reduce the profit tax rate if most of the income remains to them. Let's let them decide for themselves, so they can say what's best for them. The problem with centralism is that people who are centralists want to decide on behalf of others. I'm not saying that we differ in philosophy, however, you said that many other regulations should be proposed here. That's what we talked about, too. Why don't you suggest them? We will gladly vote in favour of LDP laws or any other party in Serbia that proposes essential additional decentralisation. We don't care who the promoter is. What matters is what's the point. The important thing is that it's quality. In that sense, the only thing you really asked on a professional basis is – where did 43 billion come from? The answer is – 20 billion smaller transfers, 23 billion abolishing the republican expenditures of local character. That's 43 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56295	The National MP Balint Pastor has two minutes. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has two minutes, right on line, as I have read. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56296	Mrs. Komic, Article 27. It's really unacceptable for us to have a discussion by someone to interpret what I said, and you to tolerate it. It is not a small difference between the attitude my discussion is treated by saying that I consider that the unimportant income of local self-government from the income tax, with the view that this income is unstable and insecure, especially given the other projects and plans of the republican government, which the proponent also spoke of in time, as a minister, and today as a proposing. There is one fact – flagrant violation. Another fact that says that, then, in my debate, I made it very clear that there is no money, but that it will be taken there somewhere. He's gone!
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56297	People's MP, that's why you're entitled to a replica. That's the most I can do, so the chairman has no authority to warn the speaker whether he's good or bad at interpreting other people's views. I can only insist on a strict violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is why you now have the fourth time I speak, right on the line. Please, let's understand that it makes it easier for everyone, and I think that's how we're going to get into the quality of the debate. National MP Balint Pastor, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56298	A short replica to Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. You've listed party leaders who are in government or who support the government. In my hand, I have a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, says here among other things, we have set the next agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, a request submitted by 122 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say for the sake of the public, Mr. Jovanovic, if we SVM didn't sign this initiative, we had nothing to do with the URS initiative, we have something to do with this bill that you or LDP have. We are here to say our opinion and in the voting day we will decide how we will vote on this law, it was not a vote on the agenda because it is an extraordinary sitting as you know very well, so we SVM have nothing to do with this draft URS law. For the sake of the public, I wanted to say that this incorrect finding is not repeated in the further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56299	National MP Sasa Milenić. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, you will only get a replica to use Sasa Milenic for two minutes. Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56300	I repeat to Mr Jovanovic, on the note, that all those who have been involved in collecting signatures for the implementation of this legislative initiative, the URS, we have also dealt with the deception of citizens. That's quite offensive, I'll just remind you, that on the very paper on which the signatures were collected is the explicit stand that these laws will be, hand over to the National Assembly, and this is exactly the first of them, and we'll continue with the other proposals. Especially when we bear in mind the fact that this is the most massive support for citizens and one legislative initiative in Serbia's parliamentary history. The second observation, related to the relationship Together with Šumadija and its president, Mr Veroljub Stevanovic, towards Mr Dinkic's political career and the URS, is quite maliciously interpreted, as if I understood it well. It's about something completely different, because you're wrong if you think that together for the Shumadi, she has joined her political platform with this political group and many others based on an assessment of standing inside the so-called. a democratic bloc. It is true that we and Mr Dinkic, as in this party, recognize the most efficient and most efficient energy of Serbia's reform political bloc, and that is precisely focused on life issues. This should be understood when considering why Serbian reform policy looks more seriously in media presentations and textbook interpretations than in answers to life's questions. Among other things... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... The answer lies in what I understand that you reforms and decentralisation support as much...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56301	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56302	I'm sorry, I think Mrs. Tabakovic was reported, so you mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56303	Jorvanka Tabakovic's MP wanted the word as a replica, as an authorised one, so I understood. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56304	I will try to respond to the remarks and Mr. Pastor and Mr. Milenic. Mr. Pastor, we're interested in your coalition, because your coalition buys time by, three years ago, agreeing to the pups of PUPS and 400 million euros we don't normally have, blasted into the Pension Fund, a linear increase in pensions by 10%, and as a consequence, we're getting a Euro dinar ratio. Not one to 75, but one to 100. At the end of the term, your coalition buys its time by focusing approximately the same 400m euros, but not on Krkobic, but on Mladjan Dinkic. Because people have some previous experience and know what kind of country they live in, they don't need the sky to fall on their heads, so they know what the consequences of the economic policy criticised by the IMF, which keeps us both in economic stability. As far as that goes, you're really right, you didn't sign this, and I think that you within your coalition need to resolve these relations. Mr. Milenić, people are deceived, deceived, because it is not the project of decentralisation at the gigs, but in institutions, through dialogue, through sessions of local parliaments where it is discussed, in a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, in the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government, here in the Assembly at the preparatory sessions. You yourself are now saying you will accept an amendment that will prohibit the Republic from funding some local projects in the coming year. How will these projects be financed if money is provided through international loans? Can Black Grass get a loan from an international financial institution? What will be the consequences of all this, if projects are to begin what is the value of these projects? Come with budget rebalance and say, Serbian citizens will no longer respect this obligation, and we transfer the obligations to local self-government. The promoter of your initiative says, there are no new rights, there are no new obligations, the Republic will continue to keep you Serbian citizens on the line, you'll think with your stomach, we'll hire you and pay you till the April elections, and after that, we'll see what we'll see, maybe we'll say that we did it because it was political necessity, because that's the only way we can get elections. It can no longer work in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56305	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Balint Pastor, then MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56306	Mr. Jovanovic, I had no intention of entering the controversy with you, especially since we have very similar views as regards this bill. But again for the sake of the public, I must say, I do not accept that you identify us with the entire ruling coalition and say that we are equally responsible for some wrong laws and some wrong moves of the ruling coalition, as some major parties. As far as this is concerned, coalitions are things that are variable, and we've seen it in this assembly of the National Assembly and the Government. To remind you, you voted, i.e. you made it possible to vote on certain legislative proposals by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this meeting of the National Assembly for which we were not prepared to vote, and in the meantime these laws proved to be extremely harmful to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As one example, let me just point out, it's the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. We didn't vote, we didn't want to vote in favour of the law, we didn't want to provide quorum for the ruling coalition and the government to withdraw the bill, and you provided quorum, although you voted against the law, but by providing quorum, you allowed the adoption of the law on the seats of courts and public prosecutors, and if you hadn't done it today, Serbia would not have the Law on the seats and areas of the courts of public prosecutors, as it does. This law is devastating for the justice system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56307	Please, MPs, before I give a word to the proposing representative, to the MP Mladjan Dinkic, to use the right to replicas, but to stick to the basic topics of the agenda, with all possible argument spread, you will be entitled to replication, it has been recorded. So the stenogram works and we all work here. In accordance with Article 27, and given that the right to replica is a right, the discretionary right of the chairman, in order to spare all MPs who want to say at this point as soon as possible to anyone, anything, therefore here is the fourth time I am informing anyone who wants to participate in a two-minute debate will have the right to reply. I don't want to take the time to report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am asking for patience, because four or five MPs appear to be entitled to replication. National MP Mladjan Dinkic does not want to. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, then MP Ivan Andric, then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56308	I agree with Mr Jovanovic, however, the LDP is not a political party that has a deed to morality, a deed to determine who and what makes political profit. He is right, Mr Jovanovic, when he said that on the coat of arms, on the victims of the Serbian Renewal Movement, many political parties have been created and many have drawn political profit. However, when it comes to decentralisation of Serbia, we do not consider the Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. amending that law to be some kind of decentralisation. Decentralisation must be systemic, decentralisation means changing the Constitution, decentralisation implies European Modern Centralisation, and you have had the opportunity after 2000 to decentralisation Serbia, you have had a much greater political impact than in 2000, and I think that the moment we come into the situation to implement the programme, the programme platform that was adopted since 2007 and which systematically solves Serbia's decentralisation problem, in order to go the right way. To talk about decentralisation, not to mention changing the electoral law is also hypocritical, because in this parliament more than 30 municipalities of Serbia do not have their representatives, according to this election law, all MPs in this parliament can be of one Belgrade soloist, the problem of decentralisation should be viewed in another way, systematically with radical changes. I also mean agrarian reforms, the settlement of Serbia in the border areas, I mean the creation of a balance between the two regions that can be called the European between Belgrade and Vojvodina and Serbia, which dies south. If I told you the information, and it's supposed to be done in Serbia for the last 10 years, 500,000 people have gone missing, I don't know what kind of war he's fought, so many people wouldn't disappear every year if one city died of 30,000 people... (President: Two minutes. ) a system of decentralisation itself should be observed quite differently, not through one law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56309	I thank the People's Parliament. National MP Ivan Andric, I only ask you to sign up, then MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56310	Thank you. I called about a gentleman from Kragujevac who thinks or pretends he hasn't deceived the citizens. So, it is because you've been collecting signatures for five laws, you've reportedly handed over five laws to the Assembly, and you've come here with only one. You've submitted your signatures to just one law for today's session. If that's not a hoax, there's one other word I can tell you about, maybe you lied, I'm leaving it up to you to assess what's true. All this talk about alleged savings in this law doesn't exist. You know very well and let go next year, this law has been valid since 1 September of this year, let's talk about seven billion holes to pay for your election campaign, the pre-election campaign of the ruling coalition. What did we pass the party financing law last week? For you to give yourselves seven billion dinars, to get into the election, and Mr. Pastor, yes, we voted for some laws. You know what the laws are? Discrimination, for example, on the fight against discrimination. We allowed this law to be adopted at that session, and if you have something, it's not good, it's not all you know, and if you have a consultation of someone to do with your coalition partner some clarifications, as well as every time around the budget you claim to be unconstitutional and ultimately vote for it. You can do these consultations in front of all of us, since I'm guessing it's some sort of clarification of the law, not something else. As we ask for clarification of the law, why don't you look for them here at the session? And you've always voted for these laws at some distance. Had it not been for the LDP in this country, visas would not have been lifted. Because you were looking at your narrow party interest back then. That is why the LDP has allowed this session to be held, not because of the law in courts, not because of you and not because of the ruling coalition, and when you talk about it, you must show minimum respect for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56311	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56312	Mrs. Komic, it is obvious that we are right and that in fact everything that was meant to be the subject, talks before entering the Assembly, burdens this discussion, so now you, Mr. Milenić, explain to us whether I am right when I say that citizens are deceived, and that this is the most extensive initiative, given some of our political history. So five million people went and applied to Serbia's post office, counting on 1,000 euros per share. Then we said, great if you can, but how you found the value of the action, and that's our problem, not just the problem of one party or its leader, because these people who have been cheated so many times in their lives need to trust the LDP today, when we talk about the free market, about decentralisation, about the right, about the obligations, they're not going to do anything and they're sick of themselves, and they're over their heads, let alone when we stand against them. That's why decentralisation is a job where we have to act much more responsibly, from the very beginning, so much we can talk about the law on agricultural land, we need to get it back, and you're right, let's get it back to the municipalities. Do the municipalities have the right to clean the canal? No, one in New Vienna, half of the municipality was submerged because a tree of 12 meters in the primary canal grew. They don't have the right to clean up the municipalities, but pure Duke's waters, and they have to pay only one thing, so much is the paradox of all of this and the smartest move would be to pull the law, so order in your coalition, agreement on priorities and then here to talk and see who can help do the job. It's not my idea to teach any moral lessons, I didn't mean anything by it. I don't want to go back to when we were in power those two years. I think everyone from this historical instance knows how hard the weather was, and how big and deep the changes were then at least run. What is a fact is that it is the obligation of every serious MP in this assembly to reason on this bill, not to compromise an idea that is fundamentally important for the modernisation of the country. This puts pressure on public finances, and Mr. Dinkic, I repeat again, this puts pressure on the economy, which is the only chance to surface in fiscal relief, which now practically ceases to exist as an option.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56313	After two minutes, the People's Messenger Sasa Milenić, then the People's Messenger Balint Pastor, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56314	Those who deceive half a million Serbian citizens will best assess themselves. Whether we who asked them to sign these laws to be handed over in the assembly procedure or those who say they are reformers, decentralisationists, they just don't want to vote for the laws and initiatives that they plead in that direction. Because of the common liberal value core, which is also held by the political party Together for the Forest and the URS, and the LDP, we often watch with pleasure as you insert without bone, from the penal to listen, how... The network, but this time you failed, not the ring, the board, the basketball structure you failed with the the thesis that you are a liberal reform political party that is for decentralisation, but against decentralisation laws. What are the motives of it, I don't know, just reminding you that this is the last time I spoke to Mr. Marash in LDP, and he's with us today. I honestly believe that there will be the same consequences this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56315	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will no longer report for replication, but for the sake of the public, accuracy, honesty and credibility to say a few facts. The Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors was passed at the end of December 2008, without the vote of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. A law banning discrimination was passed in 2009. Visas were lifted in 2009. So these laws have nothing to do with the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. As for the republican budgets, we voted against the republic's budget once, when it was anti-constitutional, and in those years when the proposal was anti-constitutional, means in those years when the draft budget law was anti-constitutional, when the amendments managed to fight for Vojvodina to get at least those minimum 7% of the republican budget, we voted for the budget. No budget that was against the Alliance of Duke Hungarians is and will not support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56317	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic for two minutes, then MP Cedomir Jovanovic for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56318	Mrs. Comic, I very much like this liberal variant of our Rules of Procedure. Of course, I praise you, don't get it wrong. Just to remind you, Mrs. Comic, all of what you heard as a criticism of the concept of Mladjan Dinkic, you have been able to hear from the SRS since 2003, and we have always been punished. You can see that this is a prop for Mladjan Dinkic and local self-government. The man admits, being built on Boris Tadic, is being built on a pro-European bloc. I'm very glad, just to get the citizens to focus a little bit, to see. So, with five million people waiting in line for free action, you've burned to 500,000 signatures in your offices. So you've burned to 10%. Take care, please, watch some stenograms of what you've been saying. I thank you, you see all this is falling apart and now the starting positions are being caught. Now brothers are no longer brothers. Now this one's doing this, now he's doing this one. I have to explain to the viewers -- the bar's getting smaller, the crocodiles in the meantime are getting pretty fat, and now there's that meat-slicing thing going. Now they're biting her. You see, there are no principles of mathematics now, Mrs. Komic. Did you see that? The math is up to 100% hard to fit, and the abyss, the well, wherever you turn. You heard Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. He's more important to the local community than the Republic. Did you understand him just now? The next one goes, probably, to the streets, then to the laundry room. Please don't make me seriously think about these things. If you're up to it, here's my fault for funding the local self-government bill. It's my fault. Here, the SRS is to blame for the law on funding local self-government, but it's your fault you haven't applied it in three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56319	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56320	Mrs. Comic, I'm going to put an end to this series of replicas, and I hope that others will have so much understanding. We need to get back to the debate. As far as we're concerned, we're a liberal party that's so declaratively working on decentralisation, but then in practice he doesn't want to support it, it can't be exactly in this case. It is precisely because the decentralisation process implies the transfer of rights from central authorities to municipalities and cities and obligations. There's no law or obligation here. This is about redistributing money, thus jeopardising all those projects that are in the role of maintaining macroeconomic stability and, on the other hand, questioning projects that should affect the country's economic development. By denying the transfer and the budget, which is formed by taking 1.7% of GDP for local self-government, the source of stable money is being denied and the budget that will increase in the years ahead, because only GDP in Serbia is growing will certainly not grow. As for your objections, Mr. Pastor, and that's what I want to put an end to, you're right, there was no vote on the Anti-discrimination Act at the time. The item of the agenda that was important to us was the extension of the period of validity of the travel documents. That spot was on the agenda. You insisted on adopting your amendment, not putting aside the power of the entire law. You took care of the Hungarian municipalities and those six municipalities in the north of Vojvodina. We felt it was important to avoid the damage that would result from the fact that these travel documents were not extended. We've made it possible to vote on travel documents, vote against the law that we consider to be bad for the same reasons that you and the effects have confirmed that you and we were right. As far as your position is concerned, it's not great, it's heavy, but it's followed by responsibility. Inside your coalition, you have to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56321	Two minutes, thank you. The line was reported by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56322	This inspired gentleman came out who now admitted that he was the one who bribed the MPs to move from one party to another. Unfortunately, he's not here to ask him, that moral pride of his with which he declared it, that he spoke to Marash, who moved from our parliamentary group to what, some kind of United Regions of Serbia or G 17, as a place on the board of the National Employment Agency. I wanted to ask him - if he had any problem with us or any desire to offer us a bribe, because I don't know what else to call it, he was a very proud man, that the best thing to do is to keep it on record. Because I'm sure it's a criminal offense, so his optimism and enthusiasm with which he spoke and emotions that he and Mr. Verko Stevanovic have towards the energy of Mladjan Dinkic will no longer share with us in the way it was so well said. Of course, I remain in the position that the public is deceived, that the whole idea that money, which is not in the Republic budget, is being transferred to the accounts of local self-government in such a way as to help the election campaign that is ahead of us, to bypass the Act on the financing of parties that this assembly adopted, if I am not mistaken, yesterday. Unfortunately, this poet or philosopher, as we call him, is no longer here to explain his views on it. His insult to LDP MPs has long been present in this assembly. I didn't know the way we talk about him made him so happy, so I promise I'll keep doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56323	National MP Bojan Đuric, then the National MP Susan Grubjesic, every two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56324	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have answered the line for Mr Milenic's presentation, and he is not here. I don't think he's a philosopher or a poet, I think it's a man who's a professor at school, although after this strange use of instruments at one point I wondered if that was true. I didn't mean to talk about this, but so many times already mentioned those 500,000 signatures. Excuse me, these laws have not been filed in the assembly procedure with 500,000 citizens' signatures. There's a procedure for that kind of thing in this country called the People's Initiative. Then, in a much more serious way, the signatures are collected, and it takes a certain time, and these signatures are being checked. The laws were submitted by the United Regions of Serbia as a group of 24 MPs. This is what these signatures are, what their quality is, whether among them are all employees in all branches of the Republic Employment Service, of which we have now spoken to the board of directors, or many doctors in Serbia, many health centres that are in the ministries under the control of G 17 plus, we can talk about this another time, but do not call on those 515,000 signatures.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56325	National MP Susana Grubjesic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56326	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Let me get this straight. decentralisation can be both administrative and political, but it cannot be essential if it is not fiscal. The municipalities have jurisdiction. Here, if anyone doesn't know, the excerpt - 35 jurisdiction. These powers have been passed on to them long ago, but not enough money has been transferred to enforce those powers. So we can talk about the next step to the municipalities and the new powers and the new rights and obligations, but if they don't have the money, what are they going to do with it? You mentioned the environment. Well, that's the county's jurisdiction, there it is. Here – organizes protection against natural and other disasters, arranges and provides for the performance of jobs, construction, rehabilitation, care for environmental protection, brings programmes to use the protection of natural values etc. So, 35 executive responsibilities without money, each municipality then has a minority choosing which of these powers they will exercise, because for all of them there is no money. So, without fiscal decentralisation, this story of essential, real decentralisation, of true, honest, whatever, it's just a story on paper. It's just part of someone's party program. I know all the parties in this assembly in their programs have decentralisation. There is no tape of my party to decentralisation, but the point today is not Mladjan Dinkic, we are not talking about the promoter, we are talking about the topic. If you're not into fiscal decentralisation, you say so. If so, say who you are. If you're not into this, let's find a model that will be acceptable to everyone, but simply fiscal decentralisation is the essence of any decentralisation. Everything else is an empty story.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56327	National MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric were again registered with a request for replica - two minutes at the presentation of the National MP Susan Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56328	I support this argument with arguments and unfortunately, Mrs Grubjesic, and the arguments are here for our benefit. First, if you wanted to hear our position on fiscal decentralisation, you'd probably ask us before it's on the Parliament's agenda. Now that we're discussing it, it's not possible. So now we can only comment on your proposal. Your proposal is bad because it is not realistic, because it leaves a deficit in the budget this year, next year, and among other things because everything and that you are right and it is true that municipalities, or local self-government, have some powers that you have listed. So, what do we need the law for? If you support the municipalities to carry out and exercise their responsibilities, it is sufficient for the government in which you make a third to pay off its debt on the basis of the transfer, and for the fiscal decentralisation law to be discussed in a serious and real way. Not at the Sava Centre, not at the stand G17 plus, not so, but through the institutions of society, through a public debate, such as a public debate on the issues of restitution that began today in parliament. That's how you argue about something if you want to hear it. What we understand is that you made this a political project, which I have no objection to. I wish you success in that. I think the solution you've offered is bad. If you wanted to solve this problem you were talking about, you could have done it very simply, which is to force the finance minister, who is also the prime minister of the government, to pay what he owes to local self-government. Then we could talk about what is really important, and these are issues of rights and jurisdiction primarily of local self-government, and then the method of fiscal decentralisation based on which they will be able to implement their rights and obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56329	National MP Vlajko Senic and MP Bojan Djuric have been declared a replica. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? In that case, therefore, the list is not currently registered, so you cannot register, MPs Vlajko Senic and Bojan Djuric. The list will be deleted and MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56330	Thank you. It's about Article 27, your authority to conduct the debate. My opinion is that you, in the way you conduct the debate, must also take care of the meaning of the whole debate. If we leave aside that the stenograms of the session, the stenogram of this session, and this moment that is under way, can easily determine the inequality of the conduct when it comes to your rights, as chairman, means your rights. That's not controversial. However, it cannot be left without the rebellion of the fact that at present in one or another form of MPial debate, which I welcome, it is fine, and otherwise I would recommend for each session what you do very rarely, that it is now carried out between the two parliamentary groups minutes behind us and who knows how much further. Please, we have the presidents and representatives of the parliamentary groups who have come forward to use their 20 minutes. After that, when the debate continues, it is also necessary to do what you are doing now, but to a extent that respects the different interests and representation of other parliamentary groups in this House. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is try to do something called consistency in action, so that we can normally do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56331	There's no damage to article 27. We would have to decide in an explanation whether it is desirable through replicas or if it is a violation. He can't do both. So, four times, I announced that the custody of the order at article 27's session is a way that, when the chairman clearly saw, with or without the cards in the MPs' units, there is a constant of about 100 MPs, there is a great interest in making in the direct exchange of debates such as to reach out to each other and to those who look at us, and I have said four times so far that I know that MPs can seek damage to the Rules of Procedure, to take up time, to slow down the debate because I am obliged to give an explanation and that MPs, in doing so, are at constant risk of misusing the right to get word from the Rules of Procedure. Considering it a duty for the chairman to use his discretionary right to give replicas, so that the debate runs uninterrupted, so I have informed all the MPs. Whether or not the atmosphere at the sitting is good, it will be decided by all of us who participate in the work of the session, but I remain on the previous proposal to all MPs that, using the right to reply, they will use two minutes without abuse of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, and for the benefit of all of us in the hall and for the benefit of those who look at us. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56332	You don't understand me. I'm reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56333	No, you've been given your word to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56334	I'm going to use my right to replicate, because you're giving everyone the right to a replica by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56335	People's MP, you've been given the right to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you abuse. Thank you. There's a word from MP Vlajko Senic. I ask the MPs of Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudić not to earn, but to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the way in which the replica is assigned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56336	Dear Chairman, I think after a long time, we look like a serious parliament today, and, like it or not, there are different arguments, but after a long time, as you've noticed, more than 100 MPs are in the O.R. and each has its own argument. This is precisely the result of the fact that there is a people's initiative in front of the MPs, regardless of how some MPs, I believe, have expressed their suspicions in the way the signatures were collected. It doesn't matter to me. A second argument is important to me, and it's a matter of the fiscal system. Today, in the debate, some MPs start from the fact that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a central budget, is a sacred letter that cannot be changed. We haven't been able to reform some areas in Serbia for 11 years, we have a deficit, we have problems, we co-operate with the IMF, we are under constant pressure to carry out reforms. Now the question is, who should pay for the fact that we do not have the strength to cut some costs and reduce public administration and, for example, corruption in public enterprises? Will local self-government pay the price every year? Our principle is different. There have been thousands of round tables in the past ten years, in the wild. It's like in Serbia you're thinking about how to fly to the moon, and JAT has nine planes for you. We want to do what we can at this point. So, we've made a proposal that essentially starts to change the system and makes the central government think about its expenditures, to look a little bit at its cash register and see if it can be saved, whether it's necessary for everything to be made from Belgrade and whether it's necessary for the presidents of the municipality to spend half their working hours sitting on Nemanja Street and waiting for some secretary of state to take them in to meet their obligations... (President: Two minutes. First, you took 20 seconds from me. So we're starting from the premise that the fiscal system is variable, that things have to change...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56337	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56338	Provisions of the Rules of Procedure to Article 107 Of course, it is always addressed to the chairman when it comes to what is said about behaviour in the National Assembly, since you are a catalyst of discussion. It is simply incomprehensible and incredible that in a discussion in parliament, through the exchange of replicas, either through the way MPs speak to the public and to their colleagues, such attitudes that deliberately replace all postulates and the the thesis of reasonable behaviour, that someone claims, who belongs to the central government of that same, ruling coalition that depicts the power of the central government, to fight against the ideas of the central government, is an incomprehensible mechanism. Perhaps you are interpreting that this is not offensive, no, it is offensive, because we can make different arguments here, as Mr. Jugovic put it, all against this law, and in the voting day will vote safely, 150% for this law. What does that look like? If you're going to have an argument, then we need to support this argument with facts, not disqualifications. The fact is that this law raises between 40% and 80% of citizens' salaries, the fact is that wages are less and less, the fact is that this is relatively uncontrollable income, the fact is that transfers have not been passed, the fact that this country's law has violated this party that is proposing this change today, and the fact is that we cannot rely on them and will apply what they adopt today. That's the facts. How can you let such things come out through replicas here that are contrary to common sense and hit anyone who seriously thinks? Look at all these people following this transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56339	National MP, there is no breach of article 107, and replicas exist to clarify what interpretations are. Your abuse of the right to receive a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure is in favour of my estimating how this session should be conducted. Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56340	Mrs. Komic, I called to replicate Mrs. Grubjesic and Mr. Senic, who reiterated her views. First, we can't talk about fiscal decentralisation here. It is true that there is no decentralisation without fiscal decentralisation, but this is not fiscal decentralisation. This is money redistribution. Fiscal decentralisation would actually be decentralisation, and I think you'll confirm that, because it's so obvious, that it would allow local self-governments in Serbia to self-evaluate the level of income tax, that the state assesses an upper point, and that under it municipalities start competing among themselves and try to be competitive. This isn't fiscal decentralisation. The original fiscal income, the property tax, it is at risk to your initiatives. The local self-government has just begun to realise the tax, incomes have grown higher. While it was in the Republic's jurisdiction, only 40% of the assets were taxed, there is the Time Director of the Tax Administration. When the municipalities started doing this, tax collection became more effective. Your government, Mr Dinkic, has changed tax policy three times this year in the area of property tax. Taxes on company fees, you, by your initiative, free those with money from the obligation to pay, while limiting the incomes of local self-government that are sourced on that basis. That's a fact. The environment mentioned, of the total money that comes from the exploitation of the environment and the taxis that local self-government prescribes, 60% of that money goes to the Republic, 40% remains local self-government. Whether it ends on the billboard "Let's Clean Serbia" or some other project, it doesn't matter anymore. If we're talking about the concept of the environment, then we're gonna absolutely keep all the funds at the level of local self-government or the province. The same is true with all other elements of decentralisation that cannot be achieved without this concept of rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56341	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic. You're being reported for? You're mentioned by name. Is there anyone besides MP Aleksandr Jugovic who wants to speak? National MP Velimir Ilic wants to speak as the president of the parliamentary group, as well as MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56342	There's a wrong picture here to talk about decentralisation. I'm saying again that decentralisation is a system term, and I have to tell you that you can't talk about the decentralisation of you who have brought the Constitution that stops decentralisation in every way possible. Look at your constitution, I can't wait for it to be changed, which doesn't even mention regions anywhere, doesn't mention the middle level of power. What's he talking about? That you have no right to talk about decentralisation because you do not advocate this aspect of a future state order. What is very important cannot be talked about decentralisation, especially fiscal decentralisation in a system where no public property law has been passed. It is very important that the moral lessons, the dignity in politics, the voting, the consistency in the pawning, that the lessons of this were not shared by the DSS which was constantly fighting co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and we know that the most generals, in which I agree with them, delivered to The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56343	People's MP, this comes out of the box and the most imaginative replicas. Please, the right to the replica is given, but not to say everything that is known, but to answer it in an argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56344	I've answered an argument to the question why we'll support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56345	National MP, that question has not been asked. Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56346	I have two things to answer. It's very simple, there isn't any of our DSS constitutions. The same constitution was voted by the SPO, to which you belong. Therefore, you were part of the ruling coalition at the time, you supported it. If you don't know that, someone from the party will inform you. The other thing here is about the very essence, which is the question of the law that's on the agenda today, through the story of whether, how and why not support this law, which you started to talk about. So, for me, it's incomprehensible, and it's stenographic to determine, to state the qualifications that are just against this law, against the adoption of this law, it's brought out on your part, to finally say that these are exactly the arguments that are why you're going to vote for this law. I can't get into it, nor do I blame you for voting or not voting for that law, it's not my interest, that we don't get it wrong. If we got it all wrong, that's not good. My goal is to show that there is an agreement in the ruling majority to raise a parliamentary group to carry out its campaign through an incorrect law that does not essentially decentralise. He's only making fiscal decentralisation in one domain of profit, which I was talking about. What profits are realistically low at this time, back five years, whose erosion is further predicted and whose inequality or inability to predict conditions in which they will also take place is fragrant. How do we know in black grass what's gonna happen next? There are no key economic and political parameters to point to the development of that part of Serbia. We're talking about Black Weed getting out of the profit fund. I don't know what. That's crazy. You talk about it yourself, and in the end it turns out, I don't even know what you're up for.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56347	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, right to replication, and MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Jorvanka Tabakovic will then arrive in line for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56348	It is not at all questionable that Serbian citizens no longer understand you, but it is disputed that you do not understand the arguments of other political parties. I want to tell you that the SPO was the first to deliver a programming platform, back in 2007, on decentralisation of government in Serbia. We would confuse our voters if we didn't support any kind of decentralisation and if we hadn't sided with the decentralisation process. You should understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56349	National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56350	I'll answer Mr. Senic. First, of course the budget of the Republic of Serbia is not the Holy Scriptures, but there is a way that it is changing, and you are avoiding changing it, although you have changed the government and not only the Government, but also the number of ministers you wrote about. Think about whether it's legal or not. When you talk about being in charge, that Mr. Milenić should not sit with some secretary of state and beg to be given the money, please bear in mind that this is not a law of jurisdiction. The authorities are already here. Mr. Milenic, if the law were respected by your government, he wouldn't have to go and worship the secretary of state to get the money. It would be enough for you to respect the law. When I say you, I mean the government, I don't mean you personally, because by law Mr. Milenić, as president of the Kragujevac City Assembly, if I'm not mistaken, belongs the money you don't give him. Now what we tell you and what is a serious argument to try to get the debate back in serious condition, if the government doesn't give that money just two things are possible. One is that the government does not want to transfer money to local self-governments, and only if it is true is you have no right to talk about decentralisation, because then you are the biggest centralizers, to quote Mr Milenic, precisely you, all the parties that make this government. I don't think so. I don't think there's any money, and that's why budget money doesn't go through transfers to local self-government. We're telling you that it's one hole in the budget, because of the law or part of the law, which you don't respect, and by adopting this law, you're making a double hole in the budget. I'm sure you know very well that this is about that, not some jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56351	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic, then MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56352	I don't know who had any concepts in 2007, or I don't know what year, I just know that this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we have, allows for complete decentralisation. Why? Because in my numeration of the numbered affairs of original competences, I allow them to expand by law. It also enables so-called. fiscal decentralisation which must monitor parallel decentralisation of jurisdiction. Here, as someone said, the question of rights and obligations is a central place, not just a fiscal story. What are these obligations? Here, I'll give you on the case, say, Zajchar. What benefit do the citizens of Zacchar benefit from the proposal that you will vote here for reasons that I do not understand? What benefits do they benefit from having their resources increased twice as much as the profit tax? Some cowardly transfer that is promised to be respected here has so far been disrespected. So, what do they benefit from that original income if they don't know what Bosko Nicic's obligations are to them, and what will a man do for that money? Will he hold concerts in meadows, squares or parks for that money or there is some legal provision that should be proposed here today in the package, which will make this Boško Nicic use that money for the things citizens in the elections expect from him, so that after that they can say anything as neighbors in Zajecar when they meet him on the street, and especially in the elections when he does not meet his obligations. This is about obligations, it's not about the straw of alaibe, when it comes to the transfer of funds. That's why it's a citizen scam, because they're talking about something that needs to cloud their eyes until the first election campaign, and after that, when the whole transit system breaks down, nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56353	Thank you. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56354	I'll just be on the subject of whether the budget is the Holy Scriptures or not. No, it's not the Bible's budget, but it's a law that needs to be respected. Why am I saying that? We will probably be on the agenda soon for a proposal for an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is the second loan for the development of public finances under which the Republic of Serbia is in debt for the new $100m for public finances. Since the borrowers obviously realized that some budgets were not the Holy Scriptures, the conditions for using the funds for which the contract was already signed on 27 April are the following. Plan 1 on page 17 – activities under the programme, says the 2011 Budget Law must be respected, published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 101/10, as well as amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, and they concern the jurisdiction and position of the Fiscal Council, as well as the respect of its opinions. So, you can't put a country that owes 23 billion euros and that needs this 100 million as air, like water, in a situation where you don't respect the budget, or that's how you plead and embarrass all of us as a country. This is the first time we've had such provisions taken into one loan where we commit to respect our laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56355	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56356	It was a long time ago when the basis for a replica of Mr. Senic was created, and then Mr. Andric spoke about the situation where half of the mayors must be in Germany to win. Mr. Milenic and Mr. Verko Stevanovic do not have to be in Germany, they are sitting in the Serbian Parliament for this reason. It is true that they have the right to transfers from the budget, but if the Law on conflict of interest were respected to the end they might not have the right to sit in this parliament. That's the matrix we're talking about. You're right, Mr. Senic, when you talk about there's a lot of money, there's a lot of money trapped in that section that's connected to public enterprises, but this year's budget was adopted five or six months ago. Then there was an opportunity for some of these funds to be released. In the meantime, we took hundreds of millions of credits for these losing public enterprises, which, among other things, lead to higher personnel. Let's go back to the question of what is and what is not fiscal decentralisation, what you spoke about, Mrs Grubjesic, about the jurisdiction of local self-government units in the environment. Well, when someone gets the chance to take care of a question, it's not his original jurisdiction. After all, the original powers are primarily regulated in the Serbian Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56357	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56358	I hope we're done. First of all, I'd say I don't know why people recognize this as some of our interests. If you look at how many mayors and who will manage these funds, we are far from it as a political party at the top by the number of mayors or authorities in local self-government. In this way we want to set the rules of the game for both today and the future and allow people at the bar to participate in the local elections tomorrow, choosing the mayors directly, they know that they choose people who have their own money, property and who can do what they promised in the election campaign. I never said we weren't part of some process of centralization or that each of us has no less or greater responsibility, but we have the right maybe as well as someone sitting in the system right now telling us what's wrong and offering a solution. No one forbids you to make another proposal, to stay 100%, to have one income tax amendment or to stay 20%, to transfer the VAT, whatever, but someone has to suggest something, someone has to do something. Unsustainable is the position of local self-government in Serbia. It is impossible to tell people – wait for two more years of round tables and you will get a great proposal. I think this is what we talked about during the campaign. So the decentralisation wheel was launched, as was difficult after 2000, by shock therapy to reform the banking system. There was a lot of resistance, a lot more than now. Look where we are today. How many banks are there? There are seven billion foreign exchange savings in banks. So it's always hard to start some kind of reform. That's why it's hard today and this much debate, but I'm sure that the benefits of all this will be seen quickly and we'll have localally directly elected able mayors who won't look at the results of the Central Election Commission and voters who will be freed from worry if they vote for this man who's capable, what should I do when he doesn't belong to a party who will form a central government. I think this is primarily a win for the citizens. I believe in the end, dear LDP friends, and you will support this. Thank you. I think this is, first of all, a win for the citizens. I believe in the end, dear LDP friends, and you will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56359	Two minutes. There are four other members of parliament that have been reported to be right about the replica, and this round of replicas will be closed. And we will move to the course of a session where the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, have the right to the word. So, in line with the right to the replica, the MPs Zoran Nikolic, Milos Aligrudic, and Ivan Andric will have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56360	Thank you. I'm very pleased that this discussion has been decentralised slowly and that everyone is a little involved in this discussion, but I'm really a little confused. So, the people who advocated the Constitution, now they're no longer for that constitution. I am confused by the fact that in the political sky of Serbia there are URS, and through this centralized discussion, at first, I see that there are united decentraliseds of Serbia and that is one of my general impressions. When we came to the situation that the LDP is talking about institutions and believes that it protects the state, where it is in part and right, it speaks mostly of the proposal of G 17 and Mr Dinkic, and of the DS that supports such a proposal. When we get into a situation where the state institutions defend LDP, then you gentlemen from the DS and you G17 gentlemen put your finger on the head. Because when you have some conversations with the citizens and they intercept you, the first thing they tell you is what the resultant is and what you can draw as a conclusion - there's no state here. What are you doing with this country? I don't know how many billions you're talking fairy tales here. You blackmailed DS, they let you play with money. How long will you, Mr. Dinkic, play with this country's money and these citizens? It's a lie that they'll get more money, because there'll be less money in the Republic register. You're destroying the state and fortunately we've had the opportunity to hear only LDP defend the state in this case. How far did you get? Why is DS quiet, why is the SPS quiet? Because you blackmailed them. But the citizens won't agree to that blackmail and let me tell you one thing: 515 thousand voters are nothing. You went after your hand to raise four million voters, to bring them to the post office to sign a statement saying they would receive at least a thousand euros. It was a lie then, and this is a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56361	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56362	No, but that's what Mr. Senic said for a little while and eventually defined it towards the LDP and it went towards the previous speakers. You guys talk about it, like you don't have an interest. How come you're not interested? So you have a direct and clear interest in adopting such a law because it is part of a campaign that should show citizens that you are exclusively concerned about their local fates, the fates of citizens at local level through decentralisation and that, above all, with fiscal decentralisation. It's your campaign and your interest. That story has the other side of the medal. It's a sin of DS and these other satellites of theirs. It is their sin, because they allow the campaign to be reduced to a legislative initiative in front of this parliament by a parliamentary group, with a regulation that is undeveloped and unfounded, which is only a fraction of what should be in the story of decentralisation, which you have neither invented nor launched, which is an essential part of this party's programme that I belong to and which could not be implemented in an adequate way for years precisely because of our political partners in the government that we were with, at the time. Yeah, that's right. Because we couldn't realize it. You see decentralisation exclusively as a transfer of money. Yeah, without that, there's no decentralisation. Did you say one word about your obligations? I asked you for a moment on the case of Bosko Nimčić, how are people going to live? You're the one who predicted that you would make them happy with the money that they'd get from something called profit that's getting smaller and smaller from day to day. You're saying you'll compensate for it with a fair transfer. What fair transfer? That's what you promise the same ones who broke the current law. What law does it apply to you? What, the one you didn't like, weren't the nice cover of that law? What, it wasn't a nice title, so you didn't like it, or the color of the paper wasn't right? This one you're bringing here, it's gonna be great, so you're gonna respect it, and that's how you prove your judgment that you're into decentralisation and that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56363	Two minutes. Right for two minutes and this is the final round of replicas have folk MPs: Jugović Aleksandar, Ivan Andric and Susana Grubjesic. After that, MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, will receive the word as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56364	I am not surprised that Mr Aligrudic does not know much about decentralisation and the European regulation of modern states, since it belongs to the political party of the anti-European definition. But I'm surprised how little he knows about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56365	National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56366	I'll try to finish, at least on behalf of the LDP, this circle of replicas for now. Mr. Senic, of course you've benefited from what you've been doing so far. I'll give you an example of how you acted in Bora. You, among other things, have joined, in this idea of decentralisation, at least in public, the idea of departementization. In the Boro elections, the bearer of your list was the director, if I'm not mistaken, the TV Bor. In that, as director of the RTV Bor, I think it's a unique place in the world where the CEO of the largest company was the bearer of the list, and that's your original success, where you won, if I'm not wronged by 23%. From my perspective, it's abuse of jurisdiction and authority of the state. A great abuse. If we talk about the content of the law, and you keep talking about some jurisdiction, we tell you once again, there is no jurisdiction in this law. You offer money and you promise, like a campaign in Bora, money that doesn't exist and where you say, in two or three months, that the circumstances have changed so that your phenomenal idea couldn't be implemented. We know it in this room, but the citizens of Serbia know it very well. What I'd still like to say is that responsibility can't be equal to everything, because only a few people in this government were from October 5th to today, in different ways. One of them is the president of your party. With all due respect to that energy and that you have managed to impose a decentralisation theme, which we have congratulated you on, we tell you that this proposal is not good. We think there's been a lot of your time over the past 11 years. We will help you by freeing you from that time that stands over you, and us as a state, is disturbing in our development.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56367	National MP Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56368	After this, maybe we can end up really. I'm sorry, Mrs. Tabakovic, who's waiting, and I'm sorry, but what do we do? That's the theme. First of all, this famous pine you're talking about the most. What can I do for you? You won't see it in your teeth. Wait for the next local election, win the Bora, that's what I truly wish you. Last time we won, maybe you'll win next time or I don't know who already. To you, Mr. Nikolic, I must say, how are you going to go out to the citizens of Capac and say, "I am the MP who wanted to prevent the Sabac from getting 40% higher budget." To get Shabac 518 million dinars? How are you going to explain that to your voters, say so? I don't know what your rating is in Capco, but you're a National MP here who's from Capca. Will you be able to explain it in any way or will you tell them – I didn't want to, because Mladjan Dinkic suggested it? They'll say what I care. Why didn't you vote for us to get more money? But that's why the rest of us and the Whisper will vote more money. Sabac will get more money because we care about all the cities and municipalities in Serbia. You can't do that in your town. That's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56369	This is the strangest ending of a circle of replicas we've had a chance to see. Now we have returned to indeed the beginning of the last round, since it is necessary to use their two minutes by MPs Zoran Ostojic, Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56370	We'll hear a lot of things today, Mrs. Komic, but let's boast that you've achieved the success of putting the director of a state-owned company on the list, the director of a company that records from year to year loss, although the price of copper is the largest in the world market, the director of a company that gets 5,000 salaries, the average plan is 50,000 dinars times four family members. To boast that that's how you've achieved success, it's really out of its mind. Come on, talk about the law, but don't do what you do in Triestenik, etc. And you're talking about detachment. Since LDP's been talking, it's a good thing you guys started talking, too, except. Unlike those of us who can only talk, you're in power, so you can work on the department, not take over one institution or another, decentralize some services, the ministry, and make costs. Look at the budget for those institutions you moved there to Zaječar or Užice, because people travel, because they have to sleep there, etc. Look at the 2010 and 2009 budget and you'll see how much higher costs are. I haven't called until now, after all, there's someone who's been answering, but this is already too much. Wait for the next election. We hope that the next election will not be able to use state money in the election campaign, that the party companies will fund the pre-election campaigns and this law here that we propose. That's why it's a big cry, and it's only meant to provide you with the funding of local elections because of those five of your sub-communicators that are in those regions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56371	National MP Milos Aligrudic has two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56372	The fact that there is no regionalisation in the constitution, according to Mr. Jugovic, I have nothing against it. Namely, the regionalisation that the URS obviously desires, what political protagonists with minority support from citizens are realising with the help of the ruling majority here in Vojvodina or what they think, which is practically the federalisation of Serbia, is something we are against all our beings. So there's no way they'd let regional powers, centralizing their regional structure, re-scitate those whose rights, in our deep belief, are supposed to belong, are ordinary citizens living in their local environments. Yeah, we're for full and real decentralisation. All those who have followed the DSS programme, our former coalition partners, the people who are now our opponents, the people in other political parties know this element of our programme very well. We're for full decentralisation, in a material and financial sense. Here, materially, in a different sense, was used, not in terms of money, care in terms of jurisdiction. So, we're up for it. Let's organize about it, make a consensus about it, that same constitution gives us these basics, and we don't use those basics, but we talk about everything and everything. So that's no reason not to apply full decentralisation, but it's a reason to stand up in this assembly against a proposal that carries nothing of quality, good and new, which only carries a propaganda that will be realized in real life through the collapse of finance and the balance of the financial system in Serbia. That's what's obvious. Whether any of the other ideas that the promoter has presented in his presentation will later find its place for this Assembly through some other draft laws, it is an unfathomable fact. We don't know that. All we know is that what's going to be on the agenda today, which the Assembly is going to declare, is that it's breaking the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56373	Thank you. National MP Zoran Nikolic, two minutes. It's the last right to a replica. After him, the word will be given by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56374	Thank you. If you noticed, I have stated in principle the position on the role of G17 and DS in the centralization of this country and the damage you have done over the past three years. I called Mr Dinkic directly because he is the most responsible, because he is now involved in the process, but you have dared to rephrase me and tell me what was done for Sabac. Here, now I'm going to tell you why this law doesn't even have to be voted on. Because the Law on Local Self-Government and the budgetary system clearly states that 1.7% of GDP goes into transfer funds. Is it going down these three years? He's not leaving. That's what you're responsible for and DS. We have filed criminal charges against Mr Cvetkovic and then Minister Diana Dragutinovic in Sapac. The only reason we didn't file a criminal charges against you is because Mr Dinkic was not the finance minister at that time. Because in these three years, you've done nothing but damage to Shupac in the amount of six million euros and because Shabac had a power to remain silent, and she's from the DS. She took loans worth three million euros, so let the citizens now see what the G17, SPS and DS authorities have done. That's what we did by protecting the interests of the people of Whisper because you took 30 kilometers of our time, because you took at least five kindergartens, because you took at least three restoration schools and a lot more. You know what, and this law now says that 1.7% of GDP is going to go into transfer funds, Mr. Dinkic, if you have the guts. What's the guarantee, when you've been breaking the law for three years, that's how it's gonna be now? I say he won't, and that he's basically a con against the citizens and local self-government. She's just writing in that law member that you suggested. Answer me or shut up for the whole day and don't say another word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56375	Thank you. MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56376	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been a hell of a lot of trouble sitting here for hours waiting for us to get the word, the representatives of the parliamentary groups, and listen to the replicas. Did you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition who signed this law, Mr. Dinkic, save the government for a few months, flush it down the water, then let it out here in the wind, and you smile, enjoy and observe? Therefore, I do not see any future of this law because the debate itself shows that it is an unserious approach to a serious law on decentralisation of government, and particularly on financial decentralisation. It's a serious project that needs to be done in Serbia, and unfortunately, there's nothing left to do. Those who propose today, they destroyed this country and brought us here where we are today. Why? You gentlemen from the ruling coalition are tearing down institutions. You don't respect the laws, you don't respect the decisions of this House. If you'd respected it, you'd have already rebalanced the budget. How can you work without rebalancing with a new government that has been completely changed, mixed ministries, reduced, abolished, etc. That doesn't bother you. You do what you want. You literally do what you want. Gentlemen here mentions some regions that are completely unconstitutional, which are spent billions in a campaign that lasts all year. All the billboards in Serbia are glued. The campaign's going on. Word is, five hundred thousand citizens. When you ask a man if you want more money, he says: "I will." Sign it! That's how everyone signed you, and they've always been fooled. Everything they signed wasn't fulfilled. It is not true that Serbia is behind you and you prove it with five hundred thousand signatures. Serbia has signed a million and two hundred thousand signatures against you, that you leave, that you no longer exercise legislative authority, that you don't make laws, that you don't propose laws, that you don't run this country anymore, because the people figured out that they don't know what they're going to do with themselves and where they're going to go. Tomorrow, when the day comes, what are these firms going to do in bankruptcy, what are companies going to do in the wrong privatisation that, unfortunately, is done by the legislator of this law that is in the debate and thus destroyed the local authorities. You gentlemen have buried the best businesses in Serbia, destroyed Chipsara in Chačka, it should have been great art, found someone, captured Puric, then arrested and destroyed by the company tomorrow. Destroying giants in Serbia, destroying low construction, privatizing, destroying everything that could have been destroyed, and you left the local government without any company that works and works. Now you're gonna give her something to survive, and what does the people want? He wants a job. Survive from what? From that budget, when you borrow, you take commercial loans to pay the police not to strike while NATO is in Belgrade. You're also afraid while you're holding various expensive meetings here, gatherings that cost this country. Therefore, gentlemen, you sell the fog, you sell the fog for years. You have a genius, man. The man who was the best finance minister in the world. The survey said Mr Dinkic was the world's best finance minister in a year. Look, only when you count it, and he says the system's not working, and now you count the functions of the gentleman. Watch out – The National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Business of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Tourism, all of this has been ruined, Minister for Equal and Regional Development, Chairman of the Management Board of the Development Fund, the main man for banks of Serbia, which do not exist, etc. Minister of Privatisation. Well, his only success is that he came here, got some Mr. Schlaff and brought him here, and he's the boss here in Serbia. Now, this Mr. Schlaff, well, maybe the Cypriot money will come back now, so this will be paid for by the municipalities. Right? I think there's some work here. I mean, I mean, there's no other money. That's the only way this could be done. So, the stories that Gilas signed, Gilas gave the amendment. What difference does Mr. Gilas, nor is he an MP, he's given the amendment, and we're going to do something about it. What does the mayor of Belgrade have to do with some of the funds mentioned here? Then, this government is expensive. And this price of your campaign and this urge to survive politically, this government has to pay and keep quiet. And you gentlemen from the ruling coalition pay for this with fat, people's money and keep your mouth shut. And you have to keep your mouth shut and you have to have a debate today to survive another month, another day. And it doesn't make any sense to let Mr. Dinkic get on the wind, bomb him, and you smile and thicken up. It doesn't make sense. This is humiliating. That a man who has performed this many functions in this country is proposing a law, and you're just looking at it calmly and enjoying it. None of you answered your question. Even though some of the coalitions went public against this and said this doesn't make sense, because it doesn't. When you have one cake, the other day an MP was here explaining the cakes, and I'm going to have that regular Serbian cake, so when someone rips it off, they want a big piece, and then there's nothing left to do. And who do you think you're going to rip this off? Business, social cases, health care, police, education, who are you going to rip off? Well, people don't. Go doesn't strip gentlemen, and you've allowed hundreds of thousands of workers to be naked and barefooted here, many who shouldn't be, that many companies are in bankruptcy today, thousands of companies, hundreds of thousands of workers waiting to lose their jobs, extras, and hundreds of thousands left during this government's term. Why are they out of work? You're incompetent. You've allowed the best firms to enter your public, your financials, your experts, and destroy it all and destroy it. And now we listen to your cord, which is going away and coming, and then the cowards change on each other. Where's Tomica Milosavljevic today? This man who came here now explains that it can't be done, that the problem is huge, that one city that had 12 x-rays today has one x-ray. Every day a man spoke, next to me in the stands, we were together. That there are 500 dinars per citizen of Serbia for treatment, that this is not possible. Now, you think someone's gonna do something, but who? No economy, no life. You believe that Ciric will do something serious in this country. You weigh it in the campaign, instead of a man coming here to at least do something for this Serbia. You're building, you're bringing in some companies, you're bringing in Jura, you're chopping up some wires, you're glued up, and you're cramming the buxen at the end, that's 20th century technology for you, isn't it? Which is because the equipment Jura brought in? It takes a belt, stretches and lines at 20-30 centimeters and puts two buxie and it's equipment and you give them 7000 euros per employee. And what's the salary of the workers there, 17,000 dinars. And that's the greatest success for you. You brought the Fiat and your story with the Fiat and your lies, Mr Dinkic. You know, let me explain one thing to you, you've grown chronically into a fraud. I apologize to this High House, but that's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56377	People's MP, I understand your emotion has brought you to your speech. You must also apologize to the MP, Mladjan Dinkic, if you want the session to continue without criminality. The line that doesn't cross is respecting all of us in communication, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56378	Listen, but if we're listening to chronic stories here, so be careful, it's a disease, I can't explain it any differently now. Maybe Mr. Secretary has some medicine for this. I don't know, I'm asking, but let's talk about some scam here today when one municipality can't get what's coming to it, and we explain to her that we're gonna get twice as much when the law is passed, and she can't even get what's left of it, is she? Therefore, a story told throughout Serbia these days really doesn't make sense, that story about regions. So you come to Novi Pazar, and you stick to it, and you say, "We'll connect you to Nova Varosh, Priboj, Prijelje, we'll do this, and those poor will rise, so what are you going to do, so where are we going, so we're tied to the Uzice, Belgrade, to the fraud? Well, people can't behave like that, so are you responsible for this Serbia to do something serious? Where are the MPs from Nova Varoshi, Prepolje and Priboj to report from the ruling coalition. Do you gentlemen support this? Come on, tell the public, your citizens can hear you there. Advocacy only to pass, to pass the censorship. Advocacy to stay in play, and you from the ruling coalition have to put up with everything to live for another month. Well, this has got to be put up with. You're going to vote, or you're not going to vote, you're going to withdraw this law, and you don't know what you're going to do with yourself, you're going to vote or you're not going to vote, so don't embarrass yourself. We are all for decentralisation, understand people, we are all especially for the financial decentralisation of this Serbia, but what to do is get back to the beginning. Go is not stripping, there is nothing to take a dinar from, hire an export, no production, which are exporters to Serbia, which are producers. What's going on here? You can't explain. Where will this money come from and why don't you say it in public? That's your story. Now you're giving us ideas on how to survive the local government, and you're going to write about local communities, and you're going to start calling local communities how you care about the people. Where did you burn? You run this country, Mr. Dinkic, with your ministers. You run this country's economy. You ran the economy until yesterday. They kicked you out of the government because they said you know how to work tones. You ran the National Bank, you ran the privatisation, you ran many, you ran the Development Fund, you ran regional development. Why didn't you think about Lebanon then, about Black Grass, about Kursumlia? Why didn't you think about small towns across Serbia, small towns, Surdulica, Dimitrovgrad and other cities then? No, because you were flying high, now you're just Brussels, Solana, Schwartz, big systems. Now you've fallen down, now your boss, Bosko Nicic. He talks in Krajina, makes golf courses, develops your economy, tourism and Verko. Verko can't go home. He goes astray when he goes to the congregation. If it wasn't for this wuss that... . (President: National MP, you have already been warned that you are making sure that you speak in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and this is the last warning. Apparently verbal violence amuses you. People's MP, you have to listen to me. So you have five minutes left. For the second time, I warn you to speak in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I especially warn you that it is unacceptable for anyone to entertain verbal violence, or language insult. It's inadmissible in our houses, on a public scene, and it's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've got five minutes left. We can't disrespect the IMF. If those people say, they're holding this country, they're holding this system of budgets, and now you want to fight them. They sound nice and say – people don't, it can't be done like that. You say, "We will." It's okay, break it. Let's have a fight with them now, too. So we have to work to make the system better, to get back to the institutions, but we can't deal with these things, to promise something that doesn't exist. We have to talk and God will let there be a debate here and an economy, so that someone comes to pay the bills why the money was invested in some big projects? I'm very interested in what's going on with the old mountain project? I'm very interested in where the ends of this Fiat project are, when these 200,000 cars are going to be built, and I'm even more interested in where they're going to be sold? Recently, Putin was visiting Serbia and when he spoke to us, he personally told you that from exporting to Russia there was nothing. That's what he told you personally when you asked him. So, I don't see, we're talking to the people now, and Serbia's need is for 15,000 cars a year. New cars. That's the need of the Serbian market. That's how much we can absorb. The story, this one -- we're going to make 200,000, hire hundreds of thousands of people, drink no more water, so I'm asking you to pull this law out of the process and not waste time and not talk to this fairy tale people. Let's put on the agenda serious laws that we're going to have a serious debate on, to get the ministers here, to file the bills, and see where this ship is going, which is called Serbia. Where are you gentlemen from the ruling coalition taking him? Why is it a shame to give the election? You've got Mr Dinkic, he's got four governments down, he's got a fifth. It doesn't matter, nothing will happen, there will be elections and, of course, there will be normal choices. I don't want to waste any more time wasting on bullshit stories and fairy tales – we'll help Capac, we'll help Kragujevac, we'll... Who the hell are you? Don't spend our money through your campaign. That's all we ask of you. What are you campaigning with for half a year? Half the government participates in the campaign. This campaign is being attended by the officials of this country. The campaign uses official cars, billboards, strong money and money from citizens, taxpayers. That's what you do. Can anyone ask you, where do you gentlemen finance from? Wherever you press radio, television, newspapers -- Serbia's regions, Serbia's regions, Serbia's united regions. Are you out of your mind? It doesn't exist in the Constitution. Get into the constitutional procedure if you really love those regions, so you can see what the people will tell you. You want another administration? You've forgotten the county. Do you know that we have some districts in this country. They don't exist. There are no local authorities. You don't respect any mayor. Sir, I was the mayor for four years when you were governor. You couldn't take one dinar from the municipality. You didn't give one pair, not one municipality for any investment. Here, let me explain to you how Mr. Dinkich. When the Bundess cash payment was made, you, as governor, washed your money through the Segedin Bank and through your companies and put your campaign into operation. There's a criminal record. Mrs. Malovic has it on the table. What's with the criminal charges? The Germans recently asked what happened to that money? The Bundes cash register, remember that, paid a donation to Serbia, and you transferred that money to the Segedin Bank, and then you developed business and entered the campaign, etc., Mr. Labus, was that so? Is there a criminal record? It has, and it's signed and it's been standing in a drawer for years, because the government would fall. There are also applications for Zagreb Bank. You don't know that? Well, there's also for Cyprus, it's a big application. She can't fit in a drawer. (President: 20 minutes. ) There are many more applications, etc. Now, you to us... (President: 20 minutes. Thank you, MP. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56379	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go. I'm sorry, MP Milan Lapčević, and National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56380	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are in the light of this law which is the subject, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the URS, heard that in Serbia finally the perpetum of the mobile was invented. So the municipalities will get much more money, they will have the means to solve their accumulated problems, and no one will be cut off, thus not increasing the deficit of the RS budget and all will be calmed down. This is suggested personally by Mladjan Dinkic, the head of the parliamentary group. It remains just to see what the mechanism is and how it will function. Here, let's start with how it is proposed to increase funding in local self-government, by making 40% of the income, from income tax to local self-governments to 80%, which so far belonged to the republican budget, and also saying that local self-government has so far been financed by the Law on the financing of local self-government, where in one system way it is determined that 1.7% of GDP is intended for non-intentional transfers of local self-government. The law was respected by 2008, until it came to power of the current ruling coalition. When you go to Serbia now and ask the presidents of the municipalities, all of them say that the funding model at the time for all the municipalities in Serbia, including the poorest, was good and that they had a lot more money than they have today and that they could solve many problems with that money. Those problems that citizens ask them to solve. By coming to power of your ruling coalition, since 2009, you've been going to violate the law of this country. Imagine what kind of message you send to Serbian citizens when the government breaks the Law on the financing of local self-government by adopting the 2009, 2010 and 2011 budget? What kind of message are you sending to the citizens? What are they supposed to do? To start breaking every law that applies to them. If the state, if the government, if the ministers do not comply with the laws they have passed in the National Assembly, how will the citizens respect these same laws? You cut these local self-governments by 16 plus 13 plus 23, a total of 52 billion dinars. You say. And we say that's not true. You're not for 52 billion dinars. You cut them off a lot more because you're misrepresenting GDP. In fact, 25 billion dinars were scheduled for transfers in 2009 and 2010. A constant conference of cities and municipalities that gathers all municipalities in Serbia sent you appeals and calls throughout 2010 to respect the Law on the financing of local self-government. You were the Deputy Prime Minister back then. Your party was then an integral part of the government, as is today an integral part of the government. What essentially changed from that day to today? If you did not follow the law then, what is the guarantee that we believe you will follow this law now? Any guarantees? What is the guarantee that this will be respected, when you said three years ago and forced five million citizens to go to the counters to wait, to be humiliated, to sign up for free action, that they would be 1,000 euros? What guarantee do we have when you directly admitted a few months ago that you knowingly lied to seven million people in this country, that you knew it wouldn't be, but that you had to lie to the president of Serbia to win the presidential election? Now we, who are here in the National Assembly, should trust you. Come on what we need to trust you, you should be trusted by the presidents of the municipalities and by all citizens of this country that it will be as you suggest. You don't have the credibility to suggest anything. Two years ago, you proposed the Regional Development Act. You ran a six-month campaign on that bill. You've spent a lot of taxpayers' money. We went from city to city, made party gatherings, promoted as a brilliant and ideal solution for the problems of unbalanced development, for the problems of major developmental backlogs, especially Southeast Serbia and other parts of the country, problems that arise in the outflow of the population, in the brain drain, in the poverty that is growing in this country every day. What happened to that law? It's adopted. Was there a mechanism to reduce these differences or at least end this insane poverty of Serbia, especially the poorest parts? It's not. Did he essentially move or improve the life of a citizen of this country by that law? Of course not. The idea of an unbalanced development of Serbia, or a more even development of Serbia, has been compromised in this way. You compromised the idea of free action that should be given to Serbian citizens because they created this country. You compromised her in this way that you lied to people, that you forced them to, and the poor and the sick, to stand on the counters for hours to sign up and get the humiliating 1,700 dinars. You compromised the idea of developing the economy and bringing in foreign investors by saying that "Fiat" would be a rescue solution for Serbia's economy, that we would export 200,000 cars to Russia. How much did we export? Nothing. Are we going to export? We won't. We won't, because we collected a 2005 license for Flag 10, paid for the machines, produced our own product with 30% of the domestic industry's share of the parts. The license was dropped, 13m euros were dropped. Today the Fiat is the owner of the flag. It is produced "Fiat Punto" which is the same as "Station 10" but does not participate in any percentage of domestic parts, and no car is sold abroad. That's why we finance their production from the budget. We invested a lot of money there, gave them free infrastructure to increase employment. And employment increased from 4,700, as it was then working on the current 1,500. It's an increase. As in "Orvell 84" – we increase the trail of chocolate from 45 to 30 grams. It is your approach to completely compromise any idea and every topic that is vital to Serbia. Because everything you say, after six months, a year, two, turns out to be too much of a lie, a hoax. What's going on with the transfers to local self-government? So we're going to increase from 40% to 80% of the profit tax to local self-government. This will increase the budgets of local self-government, but no additional deficit will be made in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Is that true? Of course not. You said the following things: it will save itself, so there will be no deficit because it will be saved on transfers, it will be 32 billion. Here, and in this parallel table of yours, it's said to be a total of non-purpose transfers of 27,810 plus solidarity transfers of 4,900, which is 32 billion. In this regard, the law that is under discussion today states in Article 4, "The annual amount of the total non-intentional transfer representing the accounting category for the distribution of funds in local self-government units is 1.7% of the GDP achieved". So here you suggest that the law will be respected and you tell us – Mothers, we will respect it from next year. We haven't respected him yet, we've lied to you so far, but since next year, since we've been voted on and formed a new government, we'll have respected what's in the law. So what it says in your proposed law, 1.7 times 3.350 billion dinars of Serbia's GDP is 57 billion dinars, Mr Dinkic. So 57 billion minus 32, as much as you suggest in this paper called analysis or effects is 25 billion minus. The current 40% of the profit tax per local self-government is 47 billion dinars. The 47 will increase, heading towards local self-government to 94. Since this has so far gone into the republican budget, therefore, it will be minus 47 in the republican budget and minus 25 that must be created if it respects 1.7% of GDP towards local self-government. That is minus 72 billion dinars will be an additional deficit in the republican budget. That's true. So, this is a perfiduous political project, that a party that has, for years, been taking part in continuity in all possible authorities until the day of today and which has led the most important economic resolutions in this country, from banks, through the Ministry of Finance, economy, privatisation, industry and all, the deputy prime minister, or vice-president of the government, was Mr Dinkic, the designed political project, since there is not enough electoral body to support the more deceptions that you represent all these years and destroy the economy, first of all, of this country and the country's standard, that you are supposed to distance yourself from the government by rebelling against the so-called so-called government. Prime Minister Cvetkovic, so he'll kick you out of the government. You will be an alleged opposition, you will launch some phenomenal projects that will solve all the problems in this country, Tadic will give you absolute media space, to collect those 5.5-6% through some famous URS, to rebuild the same power with Mr Tadic. That story, that deception will no longer go away, gentlemen, because this deception weighs 70 billion dinars or 700m euros in new Serbian borrowings to fill the budget gaps. There is no more patience or nerve to listen to your deceptions and deceptions, to live harder and harder and to be as poor as possible, and that you are trying to make another pre-election scam as you did last time, and that will cost the citizens of Serbia as much as I said - 700m euros, or the state. Since you've brought down all the institutions that exist in this country, you've destroyed all the systems that existed in the country, now you've come up with another idea, and that's the idea of so-called. State departments, i.e. institutions. Who came up with this detachment and who installed it in Serbia's apparatus? Just you. There was not a single resort, not a single home of health, not a single national employment service, nothing that was in the department's custody led by a man in front of your party, that wasn't under your control. There's not a single company, not a single public institution run by your staff, without hiring five, 10, 20, 30, 50, 100 people again directly from your party. Isn't that particizing the state in the worst way? Not to mention "Lutria Serbia". You came up with the idea that even the Jura Corporation, which came to Nis to work, to hire a strong unemployed people who lost their jobs with your destructive policies, hired them "Jura" as an employer by making party lists from G17 who will work at "Jura". Do you want me to get you a copy of that? The National Employment Service draws up party lists on municipal and local committees to send employers that these people should work. How long do you think you're doing that? So, you send a message to everyone who doesn't work, and there's about a million of them, unfortunately -- only if you come to G 17 and sign our access card, we'll put you on the list and you'll get a job. Is there greater partization and more abuse of institutions in this country? You've destroyed every system, every institution. Today you are proposing a rescue solution that will cost us millions of dollars each of us. This fraud is too perfidious and I ask our citizens, everyone watching the broadcast, not to listen to what Mr Dinkic and so on say. The URS, rather than watch what it did and what it did over the past 11 years, and how long it's brought all those resistors and all the institutions where its personnel worked and where it was in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56381	Mr. Vukovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must express my satisfaction, as someone who is in the framework of the URS movement, that the MPs are completely busy with our political programme and concept, because I see that it is being debated all day about the fight for Serbia's decentralisation and the fight against democracy. So, that clearly shows our success in the political field but, on the other hand, we spent a little time here mostly on a competent debate about what was a legal proposal. That's what I'm going to demonstrate on this last one, Mr. Lapchev. You have expressed satisfaction with the previous model, or today in force, regarding transfers. Remember who suggested introducing those transfers. Well, Mr. Dinkich. I assure you that you will be even more satisfied, double, or citizens of Nis, from where you are from, will have 52% more funds in the budget than they had. Let's talk about it. The question of credibility is being raised today. So, you don't have anything to say about actions. No problem, but let's talk about why the NIS that was worth, by accounting value, two billion was sold for 400 million. Tell that to the citizens. We don't want to hide behind that screen, and we don't have a problem. Let's talk about what's really people's problems. We are facing this by accepting responsibility that we were also a desirable partner to all the people who made up the government from 2004 on here, including you. But we have proposed solutions that, like today, we are courageous. The fact is that they cause certain controversy or controversy, but it's much better... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... rather than engage in theoretical, impotent state-of-the-art politics because your people no longer believe in it. I'll remind you that a number of DSS mayors signed a national petition. So you don't represent them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56383	Mr. Lapcevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56384	Mr. Vukovic, first things first. The Democratic Party of Serbia is absolutely for decentralisation of the country, but believes that decentralisation of the country, as a very important issue, is not anyone's party front and cannot be resolved by proposing ad hoc measures to deceive citizens to vote for the political option. The decentralisation of the country is a serious business that must be done in a systematic way, through changes in system laws, through changes in water laws, on forests, on agricultural land, on roads, on everything and everything. It's decentralisation, not decentralisation, of what we're going to demagogue to tell you -- you're going to get more money. Where will the money come from? Is there a new source? There isn't. So we're going to get the hell out of this. There won't be a hole, there'll be more. It's not-it's not. Is that possible? Well, of course it's not possible. Of course it's not possible. So we are for the essential decentralisation of the country through changes in system laws and it has to happen. If we are a serious state and who we really want to solve this problem seriously, it must be the subject of a broad public debate involving all parliamentary parties, but also a broad expert public. Did the representatives of the profession have any part in this proposal of yours? Well, you're advocating the profession in front of politics. Where are the representatives of the Permanent Conferences of Cities and Municipalities? They're not here. They're nowhere to be found. Did you ask them what they thought about it? We got a whole lab this morning about what the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities thinks. If you had consulted a few of them, this would be a set of laws and it would be a public debate and we would be discussing today... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Lapcievich.) )......................................................................................................... about the fundamental decentralisation, not the political measures that you propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56385	Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56386	With regard to this information, which has just come, that some presidents of the DSS community have signed a petition, of course, since you've already said that I am obliged to tell you next. If I were the president of the Black Treva municipality by chance and someone offered me a petition with a proposal to pass the five laws that were set out there, not to sign it, but even as an ass, to get the money you denied me in three years. You know? That's what this is about. The second thing that's going on here is this. We don't have a problem here, we don't have a war with individual political parties, we don't do that when it comes to G 17 plus. We, even for these three years, sitting in this assembly of parliament, are the name G 17 plus, Mladjan Dinkic or someone now from the URS, especially mentioned, I don't remember whether we did it twice. Not because you didn't deserve to be mentioned, but because for us, the personification of the authorities in Serbia is DS and Boris Tadic. You're their helpers, and then from once you're from the position of the helpers that the engine was tripping to add acceleration and you've done, that's the essence of this story today, a law that has its own political nature, the nature of a political campaign, and it doesn't have any essential content. Then you started talking to the citizens about it and here in parliament that you're for decentralisation as a foal, and others aren't. That's the essence of the whole story. Well, you can't stand the arguments of the discussion you're hearing. Hold on a second. When you come up with such heroes, to declare yourself to the emperors of decentralisation for nothing on this kind of nonsense you've endured, which these must, because of your blackmail, support, which are the main culprits of all this, you're not even you, you have your needs and they have their own whims, that's a big difference, so go ahead, take it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56387	Mrs. Grubeshic Susana has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56388	Mr. Chairman, well, that's true, Mr. Aligrudic, you haven't mentioned it many times. Why are you talking about it now? (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I explained. You didn't explain. I can't go into your philosophical thoughts or even think about it. What I need to correct you is that not only are some mayors from your party signed our petition, some have crossed the URS and you wonder why. That's not our problem. That's your problem. Secondly, you finally tell us here, you've had an authorized proposer from whom in 20 minutes we haven't been able to hear what decentralisation you're up for. Same as for the EU, for the one on your terms? Well, that doesn't work. Tell me about what. Well, you've given up regionalization. You were the first to give a model of regionalization. We took a lot from that model of yours, then you gave up. Well, so much for your consistency. What kind of decentralisation do you want, under what conditions? Worry about why the mayors and members cross over to you, because you are a centralist party, state-of-the-art, don't worry about Serb municipalities, towns and towns, don't go out, don't travel through Serbia, don't travel, don't know how to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56389	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56390	When you asked me, I'll answer. As far as regionalization is concerned, the principle of regionalization was interesting in the 1990s, until this collapse of the state to which it had dragged us primarily DS in recent years and until only the so-called declaration of so-called. Kosovo's independent and until certain countries have recognised it. Independent Kosovo. Since then, of course, there has been a completely different situation. The 2006 constitution is a result of a compromise and, based on this compromise, which is a major state compromise, which was a positive measure, what we have today came into being. We cannot stand for anything, unlike you, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's the basis of everything. Secondly, the big question in these new circumstances is how many regionalization models we once stood for can fix what has long been corrupt. As far as decentralisation is concerned, it has nothing to do with it, you know that very well. decentralisation is a transfer of jurisdiction from the Republic to local self-government. I have to teach you that, because you obviously don't know that, and you don't know why you wouldn't take what we have in the National Assembly today if you knew anything about it. That's the whole thing. You're talking about transfer of funds, you're talking about increasing the rate of participation of municipalities and cities in salary tax. That's what you're talking about. What kind of black wages are you talking about? What is the foreseeable rate of income that municipalities will collect from it and where are their obligations compared to where are you going to make those taxpayers or users of the means to which you have an obligation, where will you be with them and what will be with them? Will Bosko Nikcic give them what they lack? How are you gonna fill that hole?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56391	Thank you. This round of replicas is over. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56392	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I didn't think we could have a bigger scandal than the Law on the financing of political activities, when it was introduced that the basis for funding of political activities was, in fact, the expenditure side of the budget containing the deficit and that the double increase in funds for party financing was explained by the importance of political action in Serbia democracy. Just when you think that nothing worse can happen in Serbia, and it comes to the agenda as the only point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, it means a law that spoke of how better to implement local jurisdiction and then you get four arguments in the head of this law, which discusses the financial resources needed to implement this law, one sentence – to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional funding from the RS budget. Chapter, title and content – one sentence, and we are talking about money and financial decentralisation. The whole bill, which speaks of the distribution of money between the Republic of Serbia's budget and local self-government, contains two figures in the proposal. One of them says it is worth 3.3 billion dinars in 2010, which will be given to Belgrade and will be half of the total transfer of 6.6 billion dinars. Not a single figure that explains the effects of the law we're talking about, about funding local self-government. It gives me the right that as an MP who has never used an ugly and rude word, I pray for the patience of those who listen and do not understand wrong, because none of what I am going to say is an insult but a qualification of the quality of the proposal we have and I can say that it is about improvisation, an unfair and extremely ineffective solution that will not contribute to an even and stable financing of less developed municipalities and cities. Why do I say that? And without investing in the analysis made by the Fiscal Council and the evaluation by the IMF, in which people who deserve full respect and respect not only because of the titles and experiences behind them, but also because only by reviewing the members of the law can you conclude the following. It is clear who will benefit most from this law – municipalities with the largest fund of earnings, meaning, municipalities that have the largest number of employees, those who receive the highest salaries, because they are proposed to remain twice the amount of tax on those salaries. What does that mean? Belgrade and Novi Sad have 1.95m inhabitants and exactly 50% of the income tax is collected on their territory. In other words, half of the total profit fund is paid. The second half is paid in the rest of Vojvodina and Serbia, where 5.37 million people lived in 2009. So the increase in the part of the tax that remains with local self-government will most correspond to Belgrade and Novi Sad, who also had an economic recovery beyond the rest of Serbia after 2000. What kind of balance between development and transfer of funds is this? If we were to join as regions, and Novi Sad can't be because it has 300,000 inhabitants by EU principles, it would be close to 75% of the average and disqualify itself for the status of an undeveloped part of Europe, and Belgrade a little lower. I hope Mr. Dinkic doesn't mind me, but I have to judge him. Many consider him the most intelligent Serbian politician. He's got the perfect sense of pulsism. He can use water to translate both citizens and politicians, the people in the elections so many times that 11 years in power and just as he intended to do with this legal change, and since his music is as close to me, our Johnny Stulic sang a beautiful song "Availing someone else's torment is not a small thing". Do you think in the era of this civilization and the means of communication you have the copyright to such a surface? I'll let the citizens know that you've used your political intelligence the following way. Two years ago, Mr. Tony Levitas, an American expert on decentralisation issues and a scientific associate of "Urban Institute" from Washington, means two years ago, exposed his vision of burden-sharing of the crisis and said that the republican government must help at a time of crisis to the local level and redistribute the burden and then the society of the independent journalist Vojvodina made the project "Media and decentralisation", with the support of the UK Embassy in Belgrade, made a nice text, from which you literally transferred some solutions so descriptively, verbally, but without justification for numbers and without the sustainability budget of what you are talking about. Today I had the chance to even hear that you're repeating some sentences from here, that centralism is suffocating investment, there's authority, there's no money. It wouldn't be at all questionable if you had done this concept of decentralization and transfer of powers from a higher Republic level to a lower level so that it is sustainable. No, you're trying to do what's called perpetum cells, so everyone gets more without increasing either VAT, or any kind of intrusion or giving. That doesn't require a member of the Fiscal Council, not even an economist. It's just plain clear that it's not possible. What's clear? That when you ask the question of a colleague from Capca - can he go to Shabac and say he voted against this law? I ask you a question – are you aware that all citizens, pensioners from Capca and all other employees, who are financed by the Republic budget, will be asked whether they have the right to reduce their salaries or not to pay them their pensions? From this Republic budget, which increases the deficit by 1.1% or a third, and 40 billion dinars, and these are not just the fiscal council's budgets but also many other serious economists, answer my question – what will you pay your pensions for? What will be financed by all that is otherwise financed by the Republic Government? You can't take it from someone and give it to someone else, as you know when we're making amendments to the budget, so you tell us, "If you predict to increase someone's item, tell whom it's shrinking?" There can't be some secret and magic bat here, something you're about to discover at this point after a long winter's sleep, at least since 2006. Because you are as an authorised person, not as Mladjan Dinkic and a natural person and a private person, whom I have no right to mention the name, but as a responsible person, you have reduced in time as a member of the government transfer to local self-government to 23 billion dinars. You, directly or indirectly, have had your signature with nearly 50 billion dinars. How? Directly investing money from the "NIP" and passing money to performers directly to the account, past and municipalities and any other intermediaries that normally appear in the vertical hierarchy of a regulated state. Everyone knew who was deciding. We all know who opened and closed agencies for small and medium-sized enterprises, so he created regional development agencies. Your description of the ministerial duties when you became minister was on the seven sides, because you also took over responsibilities on the economy, on regional development, on employment, on precious metals. In your ministry, it was decided to export arms, restructure, write off debts, buy out internships, incentivise funds, attract old investment, finance exports. Everywhere there was money, which, by subsidies and regulations, meant, not by the laws but by your discretionary decision and rights, was signed, and you were large and valuable, twice the amount you spent. Only in the state of Boris Tadic is it possible for Dinkic to be in opposition and his party to be in power. It's clear that after 11 years of being in the government, you're not just fighting for survival in politics, you're fighting for survival at all. Do you wonder if it can survive a state that serves one man, even if it is you? Many people say that you believe and that you have bad consequences for your best intentions. I have no reason to doubt that, and to believe that, I'm just following the results of the largest number of citizens. Could it happen that you create this resistance to Belgrade, which will receive the largest number, the largest amount of funding, and not to explain that Belgrade is not a board of the city of Belgrade, but 17 municipalities, most of which do not have decent living conditions. We are consciously creating a Belgrade-based building and creating a picture of everything going towards Belgrade and that everyone is going there. In this Belgrade, you have a New Belgrade with 218,593 residents and 96,000 employees. The Sava wreath has 40,000 inhabitants and 76,500 employees. The old town has 52,000 inhabitants and has 68,000 employees. What am I trying to say? The Belgrade centre is a centre where agencies, government authorities, services, those who receive only regular salaries and whose salaries are paid taxes and contributions, some of which will go to local self-government. What and how much? You have not broken down the criteria at all in a way that is transparent and clear. You may have done the law in a hurry, you may have had good intentions, but you did not make it through this law. You're telling the story that small municipalities are going to get a lot more, and in fact it's the reverse-degradation, the final act. Will impatience be born out of this resistance of small communities towards Belgrade? Yeah, she already exists. Is there any other kind of conflict that can be created from that? I don't know, but it's possible. If any kind of conflict occurs, it may be too big and too heavy a word, but it's true. What can be expected? Something that certainly can't get into the desired and expected result. Let's not talk about equating regional development without actually encouraging it. I, who present this data, can give you, not to bother viewers – charts and correlations of development and population, profit funds, income taxes and how this is valorized in the final outcome. The fact that I have been serious as a member of the SNS and the Prosperity Group of Serbia has been your law, means that we have made eight of the most serious amendments that I expect you to consider with care. Where, at least for a part of the transfer funds that need to equalise giving to smaller municipalities, we predict what I'm sure you saw but you didn't want to suggest, that one fund should be formed from all those who receive regular and maximum salaries and that according to the population, we give proportionally to all municipalities, and not to those who have given, so that those who are rich will be richer and those who are poor will continue to be poorer. That's what you have in your proposal for an amendment that we've given, but it's not worth talking about dividing one of those same cookies and being equal in trouble. What was your mission, as minister, and was in your job description? To improve the conditions for employment and to increase the number of those who receive salaries, but not those in the public administration, not those supported by the government, not the state administration, but in the private sector and where we can really have permanent incomes that do not burden those millions of employees who need to earn everything. Now tell me - where do you get the logic that local self-governments that will receive more resources will be stimulated that they create conditions for newly employed workers and that they will have a strong motive in their territory, even if they have money, which they do not have, and the government as if it did not have a strong motive, when it was left with more and when it had these resources or finally very personal you, how will they have motive, and you didn't have it? Or maybe some of your enlightenment happened, so you realized, maybe that's why the government is running a lot of money through some illegal channels without which the republican government could function. Or if that was the reason, you would. as honest messengers. vote in favour of putting on the agenda of the Public Procurement Act, which prevents such swelling of money and corruption that is clearly measured by billions of dinars. Why didn't you vote for that law? I'd be willing to vote for yours, if it really meant a better life for the citizens of any municipality, but you're, as you would say, smart enough to write such a vague provision, to interpret it as you wish. All the provisions that you have entered into this law are so vague that the municipality of a thousand inhabitants and municipalities with 17,000 inhabitants receives the same amount of funds because you have placed them in such a category by other criteria that there can be no speech on justice and on fair distribution. What is interesting, and I must mention, and with you as a member of the Government, it is allowed to enter into the budget of the Republic of Serbia a provision by which the Republic Government, or you from the NIP, directly forward certain projects to local communities, even bypassing municipalities. In two budgets back, in two years it stands as a member of the law. Wait, you who are now in dual capacity, and the opposition and the authorities, you want to pass someone by because of political belongings, and you're making yourself a legal condition, and today your president of the Pirot municipality, Vasic, is wrong to drag a minister's sleeve, because he can't turn the school around, and the Pirot Tiger has quite a pay tax fund that doesn't leave him all. What do those you willingly do through the Bankrupt Act, through the Business Registers Agency Act, through laws and restructuring and forgiveness of debts, leave a huge amount of income tax to local self-government? What do we do with those municipalities where only a few private businesses work, where people don't even have money on the green market to go? Tomato manufacturers, they don't have anyone to sell it to. Where and how to create the conditions for new employment that will fill these funds that you and I are talking about, I want to believe, with the best intention? If you're at the time of the golden rain, of the privatisation acquisitions and the time when donations and more favourable loans came, we're left with a million employees. We stayed on those who were stimulated by your campaign to fund the job from 2,000 to 10,000. What are the effects of that? We have asked you here, as MPs, countless times to come up with the effects of what is planning, programming and the effects of the budgeted dinar. You're talking today, as an economist with an 11-year experience in the government, a story - you're against this or that city. No, we are to remain a state of Serbia, without conflict in a uniform, unequal regional development. I don't mind if you have the political ability to use some, otherwise, good action for the citizens. But there's absolutely nothing good about this citizen action and that's why we're voting against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56393	The word has a representative of the proposing MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56394	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I find it interesting today when I follow this debate that everyone is actually for decentralisation, that's even one head of the parliamentary club said – we are all for decentralisation. Just no one to say what decentralisation they are. Only this one isn't right, and no one's saying, it doesn't really suggest what kind of decentralisation model that would be acceptable. What makes me happy today during this debate is the fact that many who today say that against this tomorrow, when they see the effects and when their citizens come and pull them by the hand and say – hey, this really happened, they will be grateful. Never mind. It doesn't matter that they didn't vote today. I'd like to tell you the next thing. You're right, from 2000 to today I have been in various public positions in the government. But that's exactly why many in a small part rightly criticize me, and in a huge part they invent all of my legends and unjustly criticise me, I'm sick of it. You're wrong about one thing. I absolutely don't care if I'm going to be in another government. This law could not have been built by someone who was burdened with fighting for power. I'm totally relieved of future choices. Just because I'm not interested in political survival, I suggested something that's good for everyone. The united regions of Serbia have only 11 mayors and the president of municipalities at the moment. All the criticisms I heard -- this will help the 170 cities and municipalities today, in only 11 cities are mayors and presidents of municipalities from the United Regions of Serbia. This is something that helps Serbian cities and municipalities, regardless of who is in power. What's important is that your observation is not true until the end, so it's partly that municipalities and cities with the largest fund of earnings will benefit the most. That's partly true only in this part when we're talking about one of the revenues of local self-government, and that's profit tax. It is true that the greater benefit of the double increase in income tax from 40% to 80% will have Nis and more has Novi Sad and more Kragujevac and more Užice and more, say, Sombor than Lebanese or some other small town in Serbia. That's why, in this law, we don't just suggest it. It would be unilateral to say that's all we're suggesting. We suggest it, on the one hand, that large cities will indeed be increasingly based on their funding for greater participation in the profit tax, but that they will be reduced to transfers. That is the answer to this question for you – if it grows, who does it shrink? That's what you asked and that's the real question. That's what some other MPs asked. So, the transfers are downsized primarily by big cities. Belgrade is completely abolished, Nisu is halving, Novi Sad is halving, so all first group cities, the municipalities of the most developed, are double-declining transfers from the republican budget. Therefore, in the future, they will depend primarily on how much they earn from the income tax and will be motivated to actually drag investors by the sleeve and to fight for every new employee because their salary will be charged a tax that will go directly into the local cash register with 80%, and only 20% will go back to the Republic. But the system isn't like that for small towns, just because it would be wrong if we had only laid down the law to increase participation in profit tax. We also suggested that small towns, poor municipalities, get exactly the same amount as so-called cities. non-intentional transfer, as it is now under existing law and additional transfer of solidarity from the money Belgrade is giving up. Relatively the largest increase in local budgets will have at least the municipalities of cities. I can give you a list of all 170 cities and municipalities in Serbia. You'll see that the first city on the list is only in the middle of the list. First go these little places whose names I read at the beginning of the debate, from Black Grass, Ranja, Golupca, and so on. The first city that has relatively large budget growth is far behind the list, for example, Leskovac. Leskovac, who will have an increase of 38% of the budget, compared to Black Trav, which has a 127% budget increase. So we tried to find a balance between how the more isolated cities and municipalities, we were aware that it was impossible to do it in the same way for everyone because cities and municipalities are different in strength and whether the primate of taxes on profits in large cities, and primat transfers to the poor and increased transfers. That's the answer to the problem. Someone asked how many percent of the gross domestic product does this law allow effectively from the transfer in the future? One percent. How? One point of seven percent of gross domestic product is the accounting transfer, but given the coefficients we have given in the law, large cities will, as I said, be reduced to Belgrade, so that only 1% of gross domestic products will be distributed through transfers effectively, but therefore much more will be given to cities through income tax that remains in their city, so that 43 billion dinars more than taxes, 20 billion therefore less than gross transfers, but not evenly distributed. But that reduction goes to the burden of big cities, but the poor are even increasing, which is why it's fair, so the poorest here get this bill and finally where this difference that needs to be replaced is that in the future when local budgets are filled through this increase in tax and earnings and through larger transfers in smaller cities, then no longer needs the Republic to do some banal, I would say local projects, as it does today. I haven't been a finance minister in the last five years, I've been from 2004 to 2006, I'm proud of that period. So, I'm not responsible for the fact that transfers have been cut over the last three years, I haven't been Minister of Finance, I have indirect responsibility because I was a member of the government, I can accept it. I think the situation is such that we can't allow it, systematically, when someone says this isn't a system solution, someone's talking. Well, what's a system solution if it's not the law? We must not allow any other finance minister to have a discretionary right to determine life in the towns and municipalities of Serbia in the future. In 2006, I did not write my law, but adopted the law of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which has already established the criteria so as not to each year bring cities and municipalities budgets, but to know in advance what they should be. Personally, I think that law, this current one was good at the time, and it's true that whoever said that the law was respected, that it would certainly be better in cities, so they wouldn't have a 16 billion shortfall this year in cash, or 50 billion in three years, but it's also lost in time. Time has passed, five years, this is a shift of extra, and I'm telling you this as someone who passed this previous law. Usually people criticize something they didn't bring. I've passed this law as a finance minister, and I think it's out of line, and I think it's a step further, and I think that I need to give more independence to cities and municipalities, and I just think that because I understand it, working as Minister for Regional Development, that even if I want to help everyone, I can't. I couldn't help all the cities, municipalities in Serbia because it's physically impossible. For example, we helped Kursumli to solve the question of Shid Kopalnik or Rachi to bring Jura or this or something to be done in the municipality. But it's 30 out of 170 municipalities. I realized, maybe you're not or you're not, so you won't say, but I realized that it's not only now in the government, even if you have 20 or 15 good ministers they can't solve local problems because they can't arrive, physical and decentralisation is not only a transfer of power as it is said, the powers already passed on, the Law of Local Self-Government has passed on these powers, decentralisation, but has not been followed by the transfer of money. Practice has shown that even if the law of these 20 billion denied transfers to municipalities is too little, it needs more to be passed on to existing authorities. So, today, the municipalities can't be satisfied with this jurisdiction to carry out quality if they're not given more money. It may come to the future that more powers should be given to municipalities and regions and more money, but at this point we have a problem not in the republic and you are talking about what will happen to pensioners and employees, not reducing wages and pensions, that's populism, because you know what pension fund is, you know. The Republic gives a transfer, about 200 billion, I don't know by heart but I speak roughly 200 billion a year, plus my own income from the Pension Fund, namely 300 billion, so that's 500 billion. So here we're talking about a transfer of some net 23 billion more through a profit tax compared to the current law, so you're not going to jeopardize the pension system. People don't need to be intimidated by it, it's unrealistic. The fact is that the republic will have to cut some of its expenditures aside from the transfers we have proposed, and the proposal from the U.S.S.S. is to make them, so-called. non-functional republican expenditures of local character. I also want to say that you knock on the open door when you mention Belgrade's problem and you realize that it's not all in the city center and therefore, let them join the other parties. I can tell you right now what our next step is. Our next step is the fight to decentralise the cities and municipalities themselves, because today in Belgrade, one eighth of the total city budget remains for 17 municipalities and seven eighths in the central city register. That should change, and all the council members in Belgrade should work to change that with the city's statute. It's really not just in Belgrade, it's in Nis. Nis has fictitious municipalities. Niška Banja I don't know there's nothing there, they only have the president of the municipality, Palilula, Mediana, so there are municipalities that don't have money. decentralisation, meaning decentralisation of the cities and municipalities themselves, because it's a legal rule for everyone to take more care of the center. About the center when it comes to the republic, about the center when it comes to the community. I'm telling you all of this, really, you can believe it, you can't believe it, you don't have to believe it, just because I'm totally relieved and I don't care about the result in the next election, because this is something that needs to stay in the amanet who wins the election to be a good thing. Is this all perfect and could it have been done better? Well, if I had been a finance minister and they had given me some insight into some data, it might have been something filigree that could have been done, but essentially, with reforms like this, and that's something from my experience, from these ten years, it wasn't eleven, but ten did. The experience is, when you want to make some big reform, you have to do radically, if you make it plus minus negative, you'll fix it later. The worst is the fear of some reform, this is a reform in terms of further centralised giving up and saying, let's have a public debate. We can discuss it for two years, we all know that you live badly in cities and municipalities from different factors. One factor is that there's not enough money in the municipal budgets. It's not the only one, but it's one of the important factors. Our idea is to fix one thing at a time. I can truly express the satisfaction that all MPs here say, declared that they are for decentralisation, but essentially by voting for one segment of decentralisation and that is fiscal decentralisation because it is. Fiscal decentralisation is when you give more money to cities and municipalities. The strengthening of cities and municipalities is decentralisation, those who vote for this will show in part that they are for decentralisation. Someone may resent that we've given too little money, or say I don't know what else can not be enough here. I can always discuss whether there's more to it than this. We measured and didn't write this in a hurry. As early as April, we finished the draft of this law, in May we had a public debate in the Assembly that wanted to come, somewhere in the beginning, I think we had this debate on May 9th. So we've been thinking a lot about these suggestions. Secondly, we haven't made a diametric opposite law since the current one, because even now 40 percent of the profit tax remains with municipalities. We just thought they needed a lot more. Someone may say, maybe we could have left 70 percent or 90 percent, but whoever says the collapse of the central state because of it, I call again to look at the example of Slovakia. If the Slovaks have not failed and 90% of the profit tax remains in municipalities and regions, then neither will we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56395	Two minutes. Right on line, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56396	Let's start with the most important. The total pension fund is 420 billion dinars and 150 billion will be raised this year. From somewhere we need to find, replace those missing funds of 270 billion dinars. It means what it's worth even if it has money to give the president of the municipality without his citizens being pensioners who are supposed to go to the market to buy, people who need to pay the communals and finance what's called local self-government. So no one else is going to fund our pensioners, and that's a huge figure that's missing. What I mean when you tell me - it might be good results and you don't believe it now. You know, Mr. Dinkic, what the lion said when he called into the cave, I'm afraid of clues. I'm afraid of the traces of your promises and deeds. Of the thousands of euros in actions that everyone mentions, you know what's left? Budget cost. I'm not underestimating a promise. They're awful ugly. But the rest are direct expenses. Twice paid NIS estimates, once you personally, once the government, letters you wrote to citizens before the elections where you congratulate them on the thousands of euros in shares and brokerage houses that did the job allegedly free of charge but were paid from the budget. It's a real state of mind, that is, the effect of what you've done. The Fiat has won one election. You know what's going on today? Ford and Russian companies are organising a joint venture. And although Ford and Fiat are competing companies, until the joint company Ford and Russian companies are finished, the Fiat in Russia will produce cars. This means that this possibility of exporting cars to the Russian market is more excluded as an option for the placement of our cars and our products. What's another effect? Bank system destroyed. Do we have competition today? No, the most expensive interest and the most difficult conditions of funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56397	Time. Two minutes of MP Milos Aligrudic and National MP Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56398	Thank you. There were words that some of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, and that is probably me, right? They said they were decentralisation-declarative, but there's no evidence of that unless they had some quality proposal, I guess, similar to what the promoter delivered to us today. With that in mind, I'll tell you next, which perhaps you didn't know. Namely, the DSS parliamentary group submitted a bill yesterday on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act as the only direct and possible answer to your bill. The proposal is to add a new Article 27j. which reads: "The budget law can be harmonised and only those revenues, incomes or expenditures and expenditures whose purpose is previously set out in a specific law can be realised. ". If you didn't understand what we wanted to tell you, that's exactly what you were saying. I can't argue that you're personally responsible because the funds haven't been transferred to the municipalities for three years, but you were, as you said yourself, a member of that government. So that responsibility exists. You can't hide behind it and it's a simple thing. The least we can do is insist that the Constitution and the law be respected. The other thing we're called directly for is that if we are for decentralisation, the best way to prove it is if we vote for your bill. And that would be fine if your bill was awesome, but it wasn't. I guess we have the right, as the people's representatives, to tell you that you were wrong in your bill and that the way you put it out is not good. If you're asking me specifically if I like the idea of a profit tax being increased in a section belonging to municipalities and cities – yes. Do I like the idea that municipalities have more resources – yes. Is that enough reason to vote for your law – no. Because the law you have proposed is not protected by other measures in the system and other accompanying laws that are necessary to make this thing work. That's the problem. And I have a lot of reasons as a representative of the opposition party that I don't believe you that this project is sustainable. That's what we'll prove in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56399	National MP Susana Grubjesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56400	Mrs. Komic, I want to look back on what Mrs. Tabakovic said, as she worries about the traces of Mladjan Dinkic. I'm worried about your tracks, from the government of Mirko Marjanovic, when you gave pensioners bonuses instead of pensions. Now you're taking care of the pensioners. It's just that it's something that's left in the memory of the pensioners and God doesn't let them experience something like that again. It is certain that pensions will in no way be compromised by the draft law on the financing of local self-government, pension or salary, and that is exactly the one in the 1990s, when they feared the citizens not to vote for the opposition because when they arrived, there would be no salary or pension. Let's not go back at that time, if at all possible. As for the action, you voted in favour of NIS bowing to the Russians. What do you want now? We were for NIS to be sold on the market and everyone to get as much as they planned. Now there's no time to repent. NIS was donated. The citizens got as much as they got. And you can blame Mladjan Dinkic for not paying a thousand euros. He'd pay if NIS was sold at market price. Like this, I won't answer any more questions about free action. I think that's funny. Who's missing a thousand euros? I don't think there's anyone in this room that's missing who could buy us all together. As for the Fiat, who released that thesis that cars would be exported to Russia, I don't know. But that's just not true. It has been said that 200,000 cars will be exported to the Western European and US markets. There is no car in the agreement with the Russian Federation on free trade. That you should know better than me, though, as a new European, I don't know if you're in Russia anymore? As for banks, you are constantly complaining about the banking sector, which is the healthiest sector of this economy. Privateized, with foreign banks, with competition, with everything alive. Domestic savings are 7.5 billion euros. When was that in your time? You keep mentioning a little bank where you worked. How much was the savings? What were you doing in that bank? Strikes, like all other bank employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56401	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Right on the line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56402	I really haven't seen a distinguished colleague like Grubjesic in a long time, and I don't see a reason to be nervous. If Mr Dinkic and I could have a nice and civilized conversation, I don't see why not a colleague of Grubeshic? I'm just talking about arguments. So, as much as someone was in the government and whose tracks were and what, the rest of the papers and documentation behind those who were ministers are talking about it. You know, when you tell someone -- you've all been in the government, it doesn't matter if someone's been in the government for two years or 10 years. It's probably the one who's had more opportunities for 10 years, but I'm like someone who's been in the government for two years, I really have a lot of reasons to be proud of that because the rest of the cleanest papers around all the privatisations, from the "evening news" through numerous companies of that importance, and I think you should know at least how the privatisation of the Beician cement factory is prepared. So, the government I participated in, with many who sit in government today, serves all of us individually and collectively to honor. That's what the paperwork behind us is about. What's not good is next. In the earlier story, it was said – they should be pulling investors' sleeves at the bar. You dragged them from a republican level to use your term, otherwise I wouldn't. I'd say that's what you've been doing with subsidies. And I'm glad you made that change. I won't say - a newly-roasted legislator or a law lover, not a regulation. I'll say -- well done, Mr. Dinkic, you're finally not going to assign funds and subsidies to regulations, but you're trying to get the law to sort out the distribution of money. But neither can I be offended by the word "new" nor by "ex." Because a serious man is behind his decisions and moves. And time will tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56403	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has the word, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56404	Mrs. Comic, I have to go completely the other way. I must commend Mr Dinkic for seeing epochal changes today. He's decently dressed, at a decent time he's come, the bill of law is written in Cyrillic, and the man admits what he's been doing for 10 years. He gives up everything he's done for 10 years. I've been talking for 10 years about everything Mr. Dinkic did wrong, you're laughing, you're supporting him, and you've finally realized that nothing's wrong, because Dinkic told you everything I've done for 10 years, tied up to a cat about a tail, it's nothing. Let's get in line. You remember that a government was elected in this building, so the agriculture minister was Sasa Vujosevic, and the main one for agricultural imports was Ivana Dulic-Markovic. There comes that genetically modified soy shotgun, we're criticizing it, you say it's best, except in 2006, you didn't kill me, in 2007, it's out of G-17 plus and Serbia's suffering today with genetically modified organisms and the dangers that exist. I said this to make everyone remember. So you've always challenged what the MPs of the SRS say. Here someone boasts of the epochal results regarding the reform of the banking system. But there was an affair. No one mentions the Deposit Insurance Agency today. What about them over there? Who's gonna deal with that? There's been a criminal report involving a break-in at the National Bank. There is a criminal report related to Cyprus. There's an affair about Moby 63. There's an affair until the affair, until the affair, until the affair. I am very glad, Mrs. Komic, that today I have had the opportunity to hear all of Mr. Dinkic's coalition partners now export dirty laundry and confirm all of what we have rightly criticised as a policy of the Dosmanli government. So today I have no intention of talking about Mr Dinkic or this new party of his, but I will talk about DS as a headquarters for European Serbia. Of course, Mr Dinkic will not accept that the newly roasted Europeans are kicking him out of the government. He bled, a man, for the EU and NATO pact, now at the reach of the access funds, now he's going to get hit by someone with a Styrofoam. He won't let that happen. Why would he give it? So today, it is good that Mr Dinkic has confessed to free action – the culprit of the citizens, Fiat – the culprit of Russia. That's the point he was talking about. Secondly, for the sake of citizens to be serious, there is no theory dealing with local self-government, which deals with financial and fiscal decentralisation or autonomy, as it is much more correct, which will be defined as one or another system. It doesn't exist. So, all this paperwork you've written, the draft platform for the regionalization of the Republic of Serbia, tie the cat to the tail. This is a list of privatised companies, Mr Dinkic, not only for you, but for Vladimir Čupić, practically with Vladislav Cvetkovic, as director of the agency. I have to remind you, they're all on criminal charges. So, the Development Fund, the police came in, the way it's gonna come out, nobody knows. The privatisation agency, the police came in, how is that going to get out, who knows? The Ministry of Health, someone who knows a little bit about police affairs, see for yourself what it says in the media, what a degree of corruption is. Now that someone from G 17 plus says they're fighting corruption, I have to turn around to see where the sun is, can you say, good afternoon, because I just can't believe it. I'd be so naive if I believed. I don't trust Mr. Dinkic for a word he said. I trusted him today when he described what the DSS was like, when he described what the SPS was like, when he described what Mirko Cvetkovic was like. I share your opinion, Mr Dinkic, on Mirko Cvetkovic. And I think he should be subject to criminal defense. I share your opinion when it comes to SPO. I share your opinion of all your coalition partners. I share the opinion of your coalition partners on you for the past 11 years. Everything's right. It's all about the first one. Why are you laughing? That's your picture. So where the money is, where the system is, there's whatever you want the story, about decentralisation, about the EU, the NATO Pact, the red lines, the yellow lines, the green lines, the voting legs, the hands, the cards, the head, it doesn't matter, it's a fraud. It's just a scam that counts. Let's get in line. Why would I repeat today what we talked about in 2006 when it was the theme of the Law on the financing of local self-government? Mr Dinkic said honestly – before that MPs were prone to these transfer funds, who will withdraw more for their municipality without having any criteria. They sat down and made some criteria. We then told them what was wrong with those criteria, what would happen. Unfortunately, that's what happened. The central problem of our local self-government and their funding is that Mr Dinkic and all the governments he has been in since 2008, to take on 1 January 2009, not to move on, do not apply the Law on the financing of local self-government. Imagine today, no one is talking about the amendment that the government of the Republic of Serbia has filed debts towards local self-government. No, the subject is – I believe. It's about as much as what DS, as they say, reconciled with the SPS, you know, and then we have a change strategy, so it's time for a new programme, so Serbia 2020. Every sentence – we Democrats believe, we believe, we believe. And they're killing people in faith. You're a new religion. You're writing a new Bible. It's all based on belief. Whoever trusted you got hurt, people. Whoever believed DOS, he got hurt, he's got nothing. Imagine how unserious that is? Here, the municipality of Luciana, 130 and a few million dinars owes the factory "Milan Blagojevic" to local self-government. How do they charge? How do you explain? A genius from Srbobran answered, he says – here, my local self-government is interested in buying the Hotel "Elan". I don't know if the hotel is in the jurisdiction of local self-government. I don't think so. But he says - we will not participate in the tender and buy our money, because then it is the property of the Republic. Imagine a smart man saying that. He is ashamed that it is the property of the Republic of Serbia. Who can give decentralisation in Serbia? So Chanak would sell the Danube, from Subotica down to Smederev. Who can give it to you? Verko is about to sell trades for Kragujevac. It's like a Felini movie when he was selling Detrevi fountains. A stranger came along, he says – do you want to buy this fountain? How much is it? Let's make a deal. Here, you give the money, there's some change, etc. Well, not that Boris Tadic's money, he knows who's at the bar in power. What's wrong with you? What are you stealing at the bar? Well, he won't. Now I'm going to tell you how it started in 2009. Here, there's Kovin across the street. You've called the additional election. I was assigned to the party to go there to promote ideology. I say nice to the Kovacs – people, don't trust Pajtic and those who are at the republical level in power, they come here and tell you – vote for the parties that are at the republical level in power, because if we win in the bar, we will bring money from the budget and we will hire within the municipality of those who vote for us. I say, "Don't believe people, they're lying to you." Why? Well, on the agenda of the Assembly is the budget rebalance where 15 billion transfers are removed from the budget, that it does not go towards local self-government and the law on layoffs is being prepared. They didn't believe me and they died. How was Bora? Bor, that mining base, etc. I'm not happy to report this information, but anything he does during the month, it's hardly possible to pay for electricity and water. Salaries are provided by the government. So who's going to vote for someone else in Bor, except for the one who provides the salary for the employees of RTB Bor? Why would anyone else vote? They tried some shoes, with this, with that, and they couldn't get through, this is a much stronger motivation. You dropped out of 2010 to change local government through the extra elections. Why? There's no money. It is easy for Mila Djukanovic to complete the elections in Montenegro with 2m euros, there are 300-400 thousand voters. There are six and a half million voters here. You know how many mouths there are, how many people need to meet their needs? You can't meet everyone's needs. Then another epochal thing comes along, after a year and a half jumps on the feet of a light man named Sasa, it seems to me, Paunovic, from Paracino, runs this constant conference of cities and municipalities, they make a fine calculation of how much the Republic owes them, however, no one is allowed to protest. Why? And the Kramer against the Kramers. How is DS from a bar against DS in power? We have a problem with the law not being respected. The problem is solved by changing the law and introducing something new, with the goal of reset, everything will be forgotten, and the municipalities over-indebted. The question is, how did they end up in debt? Some municipalities in four years couldn't spend a single cent of their budget, because they should pay back what they owed. The state owes absolutely to everyone. Now there's a miracle, some new math to do anything about it. The central question now is – are you in favour of the Vlasotince getting twice as much as it doesn't now? Well, it doesn't, if it gets twice as many, it means it won't have twice as many, because every number multiplied by zero is zero. No, here's the point -- you're opposition, you're just criticizing, and we're turbo active, you're breaking us up adrenaline, we're looking for new ideas, and you ruin every idea. This amount of adrenaline is best treated through sports or music. It's a disaster for politics. Whoever has a large amount of adrenaline doesn't enter the Assembly, can't do government work. It's like they did with the Shooter, remember? There was a large amount of adrenaline, and the state paid him 40 salaries just to keep him out of state service. No one could have guessed he'd come back and be the secretary of defense. Then we're surprised we don't have an army, and we have a minister. It's a natural consequence of some of the things that happen with us. Now there's this new magic wand that's about to solve all the problems. To tell you the truth, since I know some mayors and presidents of the municipalities, I'm opening up the question of whether they should be transferred from the budget as well. Do you know what kind of thief these are? They're built in from toilet paper and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and They've now moved the problem, now the main problem is the government, now the main problem is the law, not that the law is not respected. Can anyone today guarantee, any way to change this law, that he will be respected from tomorrow? No one can give that guarantee, not even Mladjan Dinkic. Here, and he says he doesn't care. He knows who's left in the government, he knows that these guys won't apply what would be adopted here. Our problem is whether the law applies. It doesn't apply. Is the Constitution applicable? It doesn't apply. What's going on? The naked political interests are being applied. I'm even asking if they're political. A little while ago, she slips away and says, "Gilas has submitted the amendment." It's not Gilas Belgrade. It's hard on us if Gilas was Belgrade. Gilas is currently running only a positive campaign, pictured by kindergartens and schools where children are, because no one would raise their voice because of commercials where children are concerned. He's sailing. And there's that Tucko, Krle, Shaper, they designed a campaign for him to make a new scam. I want you all back in the same government, I want you all to be ZES plus. Why be a ZES plus? Well, 80% of Serbian citizens don't want to hear about you, to wipe you out with one move for centuries and centuries, and not these hideouts, and the Styrofoam, and I don't want to go to the government, and I don't want to go to the government, and I'm taking care of this, for that, for that. You're all for the EU and the NATO Pact. You've all contributed to such consequences today. It can only be deleted in the package, can not be partially deleted. There's something left, so you'll make another government to drink blood to this people for the next four years. No, unite everyone who is a NATO Pact and the EU, to go to one list, the radicals are independent, 80% of the citizens will for us, 20% for you, I don't know whether and solve the problem, no decentralisation, no centralised, no law or no law, we'll do all that nicely. You can also determine who will be chief. I forgot to distract you, Mr. Dinkic, the only man who will vote for this law with you, perhaps yours and will not, is Srdjan Milivojevic. He's a representative of Boris Tadic here, and when he says so, Bokica said. I know how to commend him, and he's quiet, he goes straight to the gym, and he finishes the job. So, the situation is next. Radios don't work, respected citizens, in the act of fraud is the same as for "Fiat," the same as for free action. You saw for yourself, Mr Dinkic gave up not only coalition partners, but also his actions. The biggest criticism of what was done, done by Mr Dinkic. If I were in power, I'd be scared. Whenever Mladjan Dinkic is in danger or in opposition, something big is happening in the country. So at the end of 2002, Mr Dinkic once told the prime minister "Laki was a little nervous". One more thing, Mr. Dinkic, you don't have to trust Krasic for a single word, just read the press clipping of your great friend for money today, and once an angry enemy for Bosko Nicic. Remember, you went with some tables that stole "Lutra", "Lutra" went with some tables that stole the G17 Plus Institute, Bosko Nicic was asking questions in the Assembly, criticizing you, you were about to wake up. Now I ask the question - what is this planetary force that united you? Money, only money has united you, it's not the United Regions, it's a united space for pulling money. They all know this, both informed and uninformed, and those who understand politics and those who do not understand each other. Don't believe DOS, regardless of the aggregate state and the strength of the material, because you know what the main motive is that some actions are taking. You see, now he's tried to draw you out on the line and it's obvious that the system is designed to put up with barbaric fire from all sides. Mr. Dinkich, we didn't attack you. Today, I praised you for being an insider of DOS to the Serbian public confessing to everyone who stole, who lied, why he lied, what fraud they were so far. It can also draw the conclusion of what the next scam will be. We've given you a few amendments as a topic of thought. In a very interesting way, we will try to explain these amendments to you. I am simply amazed that 151 municipal or mayoral presidents have not yet taken Serbian citizens to the streets and brought them before the government. If they don't, all they've been saying for two years about transfers is the wrong story, the rotten grandmother flax. Everyone in the government, who's denying funds to some municipalities, where you know which fucker runs what municipality, I support. You know much better what thieves are in charge of some cities and municipalities, and you have a legal obligation to prevent that kind of crime, and the citizens are thinking tomorrow, when they vote, who cheated on them, why he cheated on them, how many he cheated on them, let them think about many things and not be easy to think about – I believe, we have the right to believe, I have the right to hope, he promised me very well. Today's debate should not be a debate on promises with 10 members of the law on amendments to this law, but rather the sharpest criticism of the implementation of a concept of local self-government and the strongest criticism of the fact that the law is not being applied for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56405	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, appear to be in a word, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: Manjina, Nova Srbija, Urs, ZZ, LDP, DSS, SRS and ZS. We move to a part of the session where the debate will take place in accordance with the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government. The first to be reported is MP Bajram Omeragic, followed by MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56406	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak will support this law for a very simple reason, which is why we still want to believe that everything that goes in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this sense, if achieved, will benefit the citizens of Serbia from it. That is why we will support him, but I will take the opportunity to, given that Mr Dinkic and the parliamentary group he heads in the government is leading the economy and regional development, so I will take the opportunity to talk about something that is, in fact, the essence of economic development. This is one measure that will alleviate some of the problems in society, and since this idea and part of the Party's Democratic Action programme since 1990, since we formed the party, and we have advocated one decentralised, regionalised, as far as authorities are concerned, the deconcentrated government and, luckyly, we would have, as we have examples in Europe, here, Mr Dinkic has done a comparative analysis here, some law that would say that not all ministries should be in Belgrade, as in Germany are not all ministries. If we don't already have a job in a municipality, maybe it was a solution for some ministry with a thousand employees to be in New Market. Why wouldn't it be? The German Ministry of Agriculture is not in Berlin. Let it be in Novi Sad, some third ministry be at another regional centre, so let's have those thousands of employees there who, in addition to 10,000 euros in Novi Pazar, we can't bring in any foreign company, given that these measures we've foreseen to increase the employment rate, we can't do much in the Sandzak region. Mr. Ciric, Minister, last time he took over the minister's mandate here, I told him – one problem is that in Novi Pazar and Sandzak we don't hire people, the bigger the problem is that we're firing already employees. If we don't already have a program to hire them, let's make a program, or some kind of financial support, that already people who work don't leave jobs, and there's a lot of examples in Europe. So I suggested to him that a programme be made to support entrepreneurs in Sandzak that, for example, by December 31st, I tell him from the day he was elected, we make one fund, one programme that will be adopted by the government, and that if we give foreigners 10,000 euros to hire one, let us give people in Sandzak a thousand euros not to fire one, because every day and as we discuss here today someone has fired 20 or 30 people in Sandzak. Many times asked a parliamentary question - does the government have a clear concept of employment in Sandzak, these measures did not produce results? That is why I now call on Mr Dinkic, given that his party is holding that portfolio, as we support this law, we will support everything that is on the European path to do something and related to employment in Sandzak. You will have the support of the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak and the Democratic Action Party, but we think Mr Ciric must finally come out with the programme, to help hire in Sandzak. As for Serbia's European path, I will give you an example from the EU, but in Switzerland you have the best example because it is regionalized through cantons. When Switzerland wanted a canton in Jura, she took and told anyone who registered a company or transferred a company from Zurich and other regions, they would pay a 1% tax on profits, they would get rid of almost all other taxes, so the other companies in Zurich with 20,000 employees or 5,000 but they were taxpayers there, so they joined billions of francs. Belgrade gives up 10%, but it will get 70%, and that's fine, let it get. I'm also grateful for these 10% for getting underdeveloped municipalities, but the Chinese proverb says, "If you want to help someone, don't give them fish to eat, give him a stick and a hook and teach him how to hunt, he'll take care of himself." The point is to hire people. Three times as much from the budget to send, people will do four, five more sewers, some plumbing, some dump, but the essential issue of the unemployed in Sandzak is not going to solve this, we're going to make it easier on the social situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56407	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President-in-Office of Serbia, have received a proposal to amend and supplement the laws on which we have heard many reasoned comments today why this law will not bring much benefit to the citizens of Serbia, regardless of the code offered here as an increase of very impressive and very tempting. Analyzing everything that follows this law and analysing it as someone who has been politically active in Serbia's political life for the past few months, who have quite aroused the scene and who today have also resulted in this debate and this proposal, I have to say only one conclusion - the conflict of a collerical and a fluidistic vanity has led to this. That's my finding behind me. We are not a state that must allow itself any luxury to be translated personally into a field of social and general interest. So we're not in a position to let ourselves. And as a people and as a state, we are obliged to explain a lot to these citizens. We are obliged to protect them first of all from our vanity and from all other harmful steps in politics for them. So they chose us for it, not for us to, when we settled our first and basic biological motives, go with the next group of motives that are known, which are social motives, among which are at the top of the hierarchy of motives of self-confirmation. So that's what our obligation is. In the economic effects of this law, many have spoken, but I would not ignore what the IMF said about who we are and how dependent we are, and who has one critical position according to this, and this is what the citizens of these days have heard very clearly. This is said in a jargon of ordinary citizens "to get by the ears". Also, promises and impressive figures in those promises, and we have one clear experience that GDP from which it should be allocated 1.7 to local self-government is not respected in the last two years, and I don't know how much more will be respected in the first place. I'm afraid we've offered double nothing to the citizens. If someone asks me how I'm going to get out in front of citizens in my town, explain why I'm not for this, I have a lot more trouble explaining to the citizens. I have to tell you that I've been asked more often, and I really don't even know how to explain to them why they didn't get the 970 euros that we still came to them. I can tell you the simple mathematics of those same citizens who are not engaged in high economics but in the ordinary life economy from morning to night, and overnight to survive until the next day, if they got that money, that someone guaranteed them this moment that they would be paid, they would have about 3,880,000,000 euros that they would spend immediately, because they had to pay all the bills and everything else they had to. It would immediately be a serious blizzard of this country's economic flows. So now we're coming up with a chain car, where we don't have answers to what we didn't meet before, and we already have something next that we're offering them, which nobody's going to meet either. Because what they've never met before, I can't explain to them that I can support something offered in the same way, which I also believe won't be fulfilled. What is pure physics, not economics, pure physics of life, is that if you have one budget, otherwise Serbia has a budget, it was recently one new information to me just as much as the city of Dortmund. We have to think very seriously about how we're going to deploy it. So if we have one budget and everything that goes into that budget, we have a budget deficit, how are we going to take one place from one place to another, spill it from one place to the other, and not stay here any less, and do it all without any new borrowings, or do it to the harm of some others? I'm afraid that's impossible. If we talk about the poorest municipalities of Serbia that are truly for serious care, and which really need serious care, don't forget that the economy in those municipalities died, or almost died, or are in the tracks, and that the only secure salaries that come here are education, health care, police, some tax officials there, so some small services come, mostly from the Republic budget. It'll be almost alchemy, that kind of spill. It's almost impossible. Then I was confused by one piece of information that I am obliged to tell the citizens of Serbia. In fact, we are on June 13th, and today it is June 15th, received a memo from a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. So, directly from local self-government, where they speak to us, and they address all the parliamentary clubs. They voice concern that a very important law on local self-government through the law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government is proposed to be adopted in the National Assembly without real public debate. That was the day before yesterday. It is further said – that is why a permanent conference of cities and municipalities asks the MPs of the National Assembly, as well as the legislators, to postpone the debate on the proposed laws for a short time, in order to open a broad public debate and remove the concerns of the proposed solutions. They have their own suggestions and we have to respect them and we need to hear them. In the meantime, however, someone reminded them that what is said here, that they will choose, that citizens will choose their own administration and that they will never be involved again, then there is someone who reminded them that, in less than 90 days, 66 municipalities are torn down election results and citizens' will and completely repacked to the cause of the ruling coalition and that this will is not respected and that it can happen again to them. We've come back to the phenomenon of getting it in our ears. They, the next day, accept this, with a dumber and shorter letter—to survive until the election. It's something we have to read about and think about in rows and between lines. We have something that we see as a political trade, as a demonstration of certain power and influence, but it's not allowed to go over the back of citizens like this. What is offensive to me as a citizen is when it is thought to be Serbia, or to be in Serbia, or to be people and citizens in Serbia who have shorter memories than one fish. It's known that the fish remembers nine seconds, because after nine seconds they're ready to bite the same hook. So, this category of short memory, I'm afraid it can't work again in Serbia. I'm afraid the citizens are beginning to think seriously about what is being offered them. You know, a lot of things they heard, a lot of things they didn't punish. If you show that kind of impudence to go out to your citizens and say that one promise, a serious promise of 1000 euros, now it's down to 970 euros, since 30 euros has even been paid for this time, you had to make a promise to the campaign to win the election, then really someone has to file the consequences. If after that you feel that you really have a loan to deal seriously with politics and to recommend yourself in another similar promise, and if Serbia stays on it and is not ready to punish such a democratic, lightly and electoral ballot, then I fear that the curse will happen to us – we have the authority that we deserve. Serbia doesn't deserve to sink any further. I expect Serbian citizens to recognise empty promises, and I think they're seriously beginning to recognize it, because the five hundred and a few thousand signatures compared to the four million they signed in the post office are seriously talking about Serbia's awareness at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56409	The word is Mrs. Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56410	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately I have not kept a record today of how many times the word decentralisation has been spoken since the beginning of the debate. It'll be hundreds of times. I'm sorry I didn't do that, because I usually speak very carefully, so I could go out with the exact information. It says that decentralisation is a key topic in Serbia, that we all deal with it, that we all have it in our party programs, but that most of the things written in these programs, most of the declarations and oaths, all of this leaves an empty letter on paper if at least something in those programs and the declaration is not realized. decentralisation is not just a nice word rhymed with democratisation, so we often use it, however, both, but is a matter of fundamental importance for Serbia. To make Serbia progress, Serbia must be decentralised. For some parts of Serbia, it is not only a matter of great importance, but literally, and a question of survival. This is what all those who come from a place that is not Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac know very well and know it better than I do. But as someone from Belgrade, who travels through that same Serbia and I know how to live and I know what the biggest problems are, and if this is a pre-election campaign a year before the election, I recommend that everyone go on a pre-election campaign and go around Serbia and see what Serbia looks like. Not only come here in the assembly and stay eight hours and don't know what's going on in all parts of Serbia. decentralisation can also be political, normative and administrative, but it cannot be essential if it is not fiscal. I already said that. You can transfer everything – the inadequacy of rights and obligations to the municipalities, but if you don't give them enough money to implement it, you have done nothing. So far, our municipalities have had as much money to carry out their duties. There are 35 original powers, transferred even more, but since the start of the economic crisis, since the reduction of transfers, municipalities and cities have no, which are also units of local self-government, no more minority than municipalities, it's just a battle, if you remember when we passed the Law on Territorial Organization, that some municipality is called the city, that it's very important, and the jurisdiction and difference in competences between municipalities and the city is essentially minimal. The hardest thing is to get centralism out of your head. That's my conclusion today's debate. If anyone thinks, if we give the municipalities money, if we give them back their property, they'll get very strong. Let Serbia be very strong should be proud of its tradition of strong local self-government, which, unfortunately, is repeatedly interrupted in history. It is now an opportunity to resist centralism, to make people at the bar aware of their rights and obligations, to ask for something, to become responsible, not only for themselves, but also for the citizens around them, for the citizens who chose them and who supported them. We, unfortunately, have abolished all direct elections in this country. The only institution, the only man we choose directly is the President of the Republic. We've abolished the mayor's direct choice. The law had shortcomings, but if those shortcomings are removed, there is no better way for one city, one municipality to choose its first man, but directly, rather than for it to be the agreement of some municipal or city majority. Experiences from the fiscal decentralisation of EU countries are different. Brussels didn't force them to do fiscal decentralisation. Every tax system is the sovereign right of every country, except for some universal stuff. They were made by citizens, or they listened to the needs and demands of their citizens. But when you look at all these tax systems of all countries, you see one rule that is valid and universal – countries that are more decentralised, they rely more on income from income tax, on income, and countries that are less decentralised, with local self-government relying more on property tax, on similar taxes, and especially on grants and donations that come from a central level. With this proposal we are discussing today, that 80% of the salary tax remains local self-government, the share of salary tax in the total revenues of local self-government will come to 37%. More than that, the higher percentage have all these developed Scandinavian countries that did it first, but Serbia can thus stand side by side with them with 37% and shoulder to shoulder with those we can compare ourselves with, with Slovakia, with Croatia, with Hungary, with some who, fortunately, and unfortunately, have passed through this transition more quickly. Of course, when proposing such a model of funding for local self-government, it was taken care not to distort budgetary balance and not to increase the budget deficit. It is not Mladjan Dinkic by the profession of the Gresser. He was the finance minister who passed the law, along with a constant conference of cities and municipalities in 2006. It is certain that, as finance minister who in recent Serbian history alone left a surplus in public finances of over two billion euros, he proposed that the budget deficit increase above the legal level. I'm just sorry that both the Fiscal Council and the IMF came out too soon with an analysis, though, the IMF not with an analysis, but by repeating what the Fiscal Council gave us, the MPs, as an analysis. Why do I say - too soon? Because they didn't make the budget structure, because they didn't look at the spending side. The spending side and the budget structure can only be given to them by the finance ministry, can't propose that Mladjan Dinkic, yes, my parliamentary group can't. So, they had no insight into the cost structure of the budget, that today more than 11 ministries and authorities of the Republic stand money for local projects that they do not have to do. You often mentioned the NIP here, four billion dinars in the NIP division. That's not what the NIP should do, that's what local self-government should do. Of this money that goes, four billion will go from the NIP for sure. The other key thing is that, of course, and what was going through the debate that would be damaged the Republic Pension Fund and that no pay would be shared, someone would be denied for wages. That's so pointless, I don't even have to mention it. Because whose intensity is it to deprive anyone of their pensions or salaries and to replace their claims and pensioners and those who are in the public sector, who receive salaries, begin to hate local self-government? I don't know, but I don't want to get into it, except it's pointless, and it's also unfair. In today's debate, it will be seen when the vote is cast and who is against this proposal ends and for what reasons it will have to explain to the citizens and the environments from which it comes. Those unmistakable explanations, and it could've been like this, it was like this, that the citizens wouldn't understand. Tell them simply, when you return to your places, you were opposed to making your city or municipality more money than they have now. It will also be seen who has been saying that such a Serbia as it is, the most centralised state in Europe, is not good and that something has to change. A good state cannot consist of a rich capital and a poor and in the weeds of a healed province from which everyone would flee. In a country like this, you can only rule. You can't manage well in a country like this. I think we all know that good administration is one of the pillars of a democratic society that we all stand for. The most visible consequence of such a decentralised state is that all roads lead to Belgrade, slightly less in Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. It was said in communism that one day we would all live in Belgrade. Fortunately and thank God Communism has failed, but it seems this trend has not stopped and we haven't done much to stop this negative trend. Those who only advocate Serbia's entry into the EU in words should say that the EU today is a decentralised society, that it is made up of countries and regions, and that in the future the EU will also be a Federation of Local Self-Government and that all of Serbia, with all its cities, poored towns, abandoned villages, cannot enter the EU alone. If this proposal contributes to the improvement of life in Serbia's Montenegro, Vlasotinc, Montenegro's Trava, Lebanon, in Alibunar at least a little bit, then this will be a great victory for those who advocate true decentralisation. Such, I believe, are not only in this room, but in all of Serbia, the vast majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56411	Mrs. Natasa Micic is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56412	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as well as my colleague Grubjesic, are constantly travelling to Serbia, but unlike her, my family, family, friends and I live outside Belgrade, so I am personally very interested in decentralisation. I will also remind you that my LDP party has used every opportunity here, in this institution, to point to the necessity and possible solutions to essential decentralisation. That is precisely why we cannot today support this proposal, which is both unserious and unsustainable and unsustainable, because not only does it not provide answers to essential decentralisation, but it further devises the concept of fiscal decentralisation and endangers the fiscal system. Not only that, ladies and gentlemen, here with this bill and in this way devising and underestimating a whole series of institutions in this country. What institution? In the first place, local self-government. I guess the concept of decentralisation implies that we treat them as entities, and not as is the case with this bill, you treat them as objects. Secondly, I don't see local self-government looking forward to an announced increase in income, but rather silence. You're silent because in this they recognize another project of the URS, a promise of crazy joy, that's one reason. The second reason is because you keep them sitting in government, holding them in a hand for some crumbs, some investments, some projects that are already under way. Secondly, the proposal itself to earn 40% of the income tax increases to 80% is also problematic. Mr. Former Minister would have to know, a memo was sent to his ministry from the City of Valjev, the town of Cačka, the Municipality of Luciani, since February 2010, where they, precisely your former ministry, warn you that they are unable to charge even 40% of the income tax from Krusik, from the "Freedom" from Cačka, from the "Second" from Lucan. Now you tell them secondly, there are a number of other municipalities, less developed than those that can't charge for it -- we'll give you 80%. You can tell them 150 percent. But let's go back to this system of institutions that are being humiliated in this way. In second place are the circuit organs, which are not even treated here as objects. In third place, the government's institutions, such as the decentralisation Council, the Commission for the Finance of Local Self-Government, Resort Ministries. But, say, they're all quiet. But he didn't silence the Fiscal Council, for the simple reason it's his legal obligation, gentlemen. And he wrote us a memo that this proposal is unsustainable, that the deficit next year will be over 40 billion dinars, but he also pointed to some illogicalities. Let's say, in the transfer of funds of solidarity. The fiscal council says nicely that, for example, in the fourth group, which is the group of the most underdeveloped municipalities, it is impossible and that it is illogical to transfer the absolute amount of solidarity transfer to the municipality of Crna Trava with 1,700 inhabitants, Žitoraj with 17,000 and Presevo with 40,000 inhabitants. Or, in the first group of development, it is also not fair for those developed municipalities to transfer the same amount, for example, to the Sremski Karlovci municipality with 9,000 inhabitants and the town of Novi Sad with close to 300,000 inhabitants. He didn't shut up, of course, not even the IMF. And he said this project is unsustainable. A permanent conference of cities and municipalities has been an institution that has existed in this country since 1953, since the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, has also appeared and has serious objections. But it's not just a list of institutions you underestimated. You, gentlemen, have underestimated the government here. And first of all, your five ministers sitting in the government. Because you've already shown us once, while you've been a minister, that one topic can be a party project, of course, I mean regionalization and be at the same time that the government can be a promoter in that case. And now that you're the former minister, the whole point is, the injured former minister, we don't get a chance to hear your first five, the five ministers sitting in the government. Here, I'd like to hear what Deputy Prime Minister Verica Kalanovic has to say about this. You made it impossible for them to take part in the debate today because you wanted this to be a pure party project. I repeat, you were able to re-ensure with marketing games that it was your theme, as you changed the name of the party to the URS because of regionalization. So you did it, too. Today, of all these institutions, the National Assembly is on the agenda and its devising. Ladies and gentlemen, if the parliamentary majority agrees to demean all these institutions that I have listed, from local self-government through the Fiscal Council to the IMF and the institutions of the Government and the Government, then the parliamentary majority only proves that it is a set of stakeholders and not an institution that respects itself and other institutions. That's my point, and that's why I think this should be one serious, state-owned, comprehensive project, not just one party project. Otherwise, we from the LDP didn't have a problem supporting the proposals, although we are the opposition. You know that. We supported government and individual parties' proposals, unlike G17, which sits in that government and constantly undermines that government. There's that fundamental difference, I'd say. Secondly, I now want to say something concrete about the bill itself. In fact, while the money was there, it was spent centralistly. Now that the money's gone, we've remembered the decentralisation of fiscals. It's just like that. So, for the most important investments and most of the funds he just controlled and decided about it, G 17 plus through the resolution ministries, through the NIP, through the Development Fund, and that's true. There were no specific criteria for the allocation of those funds. The key criterion was party membership. So they weren't any special priorities, nor criteria, so it just happened that the largest funds were being received by the municipalities whose head is headed by the G17 or the transferred URS. The law itself is called – the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government. In fact, the fact is that the existing law is now longer under suspension than it ever was. Watch out for that paradox. So, in the first year of the law, in 2007, all local self-governments increased their own revenues by 9%, all of it, and in addition, the funds that were transformed from the central register, so to speak, so that 24 billion from the previous year, these transferred funds increased almost double -- 42 billion were the amount of transferred funds in 2007. What happens after? In spring 2009, since spring 2009, the law has been suspended. Transfer funds have been reduced. In the first two years of over 40%, approximately 38 billion dinars. Including 2011, a debt to local self-government to deny these transfer funds, and I do not remind you that certain municipalities just exist thanks to these transfer funds, that this is, in fact, their basic income, so by the end of the year, the debt will be 58 billion dinars. Mr. Dinkic, you owe me, for example, 58 billion dinars and you say, well, let's forget it, I have a proposal for how you're going to increase your income and then this increase from 40% to 80% of the profit tax. I note that some municipalities can't even charge for that, not even that 40%. Now the question is, what does this get? Given that the total revenues of all local self-government from the 2010 income tax amounted to 41.7 billion dinars, I will now only tell you the structure that the municipalities actually participated in that figure. So over 120 municipalities, without the Belgrade city and without 22 cities, have achieved a 10 billion income from the profit tax. Without these municipalities and without the city of Belgrade, 22 cities made 14.9 billion revenue. And the city of Belgrade itself has reached 16.7 billion. It also speaks of one calculation, and you now convince us that in this way the most profitable will profit the underdeveloped, and this confirms that this is not adequate and is not a fair way to reduce this gap between undeveloped and developed municipalities. So the key question why the existing law isn't valid, who's responsible for how we're going to pay back the debt, how we cut the spending side, you've mentioned something about the reduction of the transfer funds again, but that's somewhere from 10-20 billion, so it remains open and still as a problem. In the end, I just want to say that I can't because it's still a party project where I've already mentioned, the institutions I mentioned to you, are not applicable to the existing law and you're offering us a new one which, in doing so, is inapplicable and will be put out of force very quickly, we'll make sure that everyone together, I can't ignore the fact, and why I would, about the Proposer himself. In fact, I personally admit, I have absolutely no confidence in the G 17 party, i.e. the current URS, starting from the fact that it was created as a parliamentary party, the first one introduced a model of bribery of MPs, so from Sredo Mihajlov, Rafael, to bring down the reform government, today claiming that Kostunica was the best prime minister, I guess that man did not interfere in the economy, that you deceived us, not only with free actions, with guillotine rules, with spending funds, and with bribing foreign investors. Tell me, how exactly are you foreign investors, and this is our money, not yours, you have not managed to do it well, it is not your inheritance, but it is exactly where you are in Kragujevac, in Fiat, in Raca, in Loznica – Lady, in Zajecar – Gorenje, it is simply the questions that require answers, and these are the reasons why I am not telling you about the superficial analysis, because you said that the economic crisis will strengthen us, that we will make money on the economic crisis. How? By saving on local self-government, by cutting them off. These are the reasons why LDP won't vote for this bill and it would be good if someone responsible for introducing...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56413	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56414	Dear counterpart Micic, we do not underestimate institutions, we have never done this or done it. You underestimate more than half a million citizens who have signed this national petition, and even worse than that, you underestimate more than 10,000 of your fellow citizens, the Uzicans who supported this, so you owe them some answers, and you don't have to answer. I would ask you, from today's debate, I couldn't figure out what you're up for, what decentralisation, what essential decentralisation is for you, and do you know what that means? If there's no fiscal decentralisation, it's not essential. I remember, you were also against moving institutions' seats around Serbia and that's the same decentralisation, it's called deconcentration. So, you're against two kinds of decentralisation. Now, in the end, after all this debate, you could explain in two minutes what essential decentralisation you're up for. Secondly, it bothered you when Mladjan Dinkic was a minister, which comes here as a minister, and now that he is an MP, why he comes as an MP, and now you miss the ministers from G 17 plus, let's define what suits you. Everything bothers you, and simply, if you could say what you're for, and it's not phrases and flossules, because for you decentralisation is obviously a phrase and an empty story, without any content, because so many times you've used today, that it really came out of use.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56415	The word is Mrs. Micic. Mr. Rangelovic, on what basis would we have a word if I had the imagination to give it to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56416	First of all, as far as the 515,000 signatures you've collected are concerned, it's really not an easy job. On the other hand, I'm sure the citizens signed it in good faith and on one question – do you want more money? I don't see who wouldn't sign it. When you consider it safe from seven million people, at least five or six for that, then I have to tell you, and it's not some number. As far as essential decentralisation is concerned, it also involves the transfer of jurisdiction, first of all, in the area of control, inspection, because some municipalities can't even charge 40%. Then there are the municipal police, so that they can be re-elected in the fields of health, education, ecologicals, inspections, that the municipalities have greater authority. Secondly, as far as concrete solutions to fiscal decentralisation itself are concerned, there are a number of solutions, which is why it is flawed, because you only caught one that the institutions say is not good and will cost us dearly and unsustainable. It is possible to transfer to municipalities the right to tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance and gift taxes, and now municipalities don't even get 1% for it, 100% goes into the central register. Secondly, it is possible to re-shape a profit fund that has produced good results. It's a proposal for a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. Thirdly, there is another way, to allow local self-governments to be more in debt, today the republic can be in debt with 45% of GDP, and all local self-governments only 10%.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56417	The word is Mrs. Ljiljana Lucic. Excuse me, are you advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56418	Article 27 concerning Article 103, because if, in an offensive way, some false claims are made concerning my parliamentary group and what we have presented today, it is, in my opinion, a violation of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, that the Parliament in the day of the vote will declare itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56419	I will interrupt you immediately, because you are neither an authorised representative nor a deputy head of the parliamentary group, as a MP in mentioning the parliamentary group, you have no right to receive a word. You have misused the right of Article 103(1), so I warn you of the 7th position of the same member who binds me to a certain other behavior...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56420	Even counterpart Grubjesic is not an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56421	Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic. I don't know what basis for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56422	Well, yeah, I think you're having this session wrong. I will warn you and ask you not to do it in the future, estimating first and foremost your experience so far and your good intentions that I have no doubt. Namely, the morning part of the session and one part around noon passed in a very strange statement by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Comic, regarding the right to replication. The trend took place later, and it is a much wider right than it was previously given and is completely different from what we have become accustomed to in the Serbian Parliament. However, there has been so much less emphasis on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which is logical. I really don't care about defending anyone from any other parliamentary group, especially someone who belongs to a political party who is diametrically opposed to the political views of the DSS. A shorttime speaker who answered the word insisted that he explain article 27's injury. The minimum you had to do was to let him finish the argument. Best please, if Gordana Komic does this and cuts people off before the total time runs out, until the value of what someone said is reached, don't do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56423	There is no violation of article 27, since my dear colleague, Goca Comic, has, otherwise, been more tolerated than I am apparently, allowed the use of institutes, replicas in the work concerning the presentation of authorised representatives or president of parliamentary groups and thus certainly contributed to the discussion in parliament on this agenda point being the same as, interesting, good and reasoned. We are now in the session where the MPs are discussing. Mr. Aligrudic, you and I both know the strictness of the provisions in that part of the session. So, as discreetly as I appreciate and love the liveliness of the debate, it obliges me, however, that when a parliamentary group is mentioned, the word can only be given to the boss or authorized representative. I think that's where we agree. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Can you decide in the voting day? ) If you are not satisfied with this explanation, I urge you to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and in the voting day the Assembly will certainly declare your objections, whether I have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure with this explanation and the previous action. Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56424	The Honorable Chairman and fellow MPs, for the DS, is strengthening local self-government, both its competences and its financial position, therefore, it is both a programming and strategic commitment for us. I'm deliberately starting to debate this bill's proposal without using the term, the concept of decentralisation, because around it, we could hear today, there's a lot of misunderstandings and confusion. It would take much more time than a congregation discussion today to discuss this in a relevant way. What's certainly true, deconcentration is not decentralisation. That is why we, as a parliamentary club, have supported the draft of this law on the agenda, to discuss it and see if this proposal is ahead of us, and its intention is to strengthen the position of local self-government, achieve, because every solution must achieve at least two basic objectives, whether the proposed solutions are sustainable. First of all, I think whether they are financially sustainable, and secondly, does this proposed model contribute to what is the biggest problem in the development of society in Serbia, reducing the differences in development, or whether it contributes to equating regional development? I must say that the first analyses of the proposed law say that both its sustainability and the reduction of the differences in the level of development of municipalities and cities are very problematic and discriminatory and that today's debate must respond to all of our concerns and questions about the proposed solution, and that the amendments, which were primarily defined by the parliamentary group, that these amendments try to make those fears that we have when it comes to the lack of the aim of reducing inequalities in the development of municipalities and cities, nevertheless, lessens them in some way. What is clear to everyone today in the debate, it cannot be avoided, this finding, the proposed solutions, it is clear, produce a budget deficit. I think it's very important for the public not to bid today on what this budget deficit is, whether it's 40 billion or 20 billion. I think it would be correct to inform the public that this deficit is 40 billion, if we take into account the budget this Parliament has voted for this year, that we can say that it is 20 billion in relation to the existing Law on financing local self-government, which, as you know, is not realised, but we all know that and why, although I did not recognize a very clear and explicit attitude today in other discussions. As a society, we suffer the consequences of the economic crisis. We have agreed here in this House to distribute this crisis in solidarity. The crisis was filed by all employees, primarily public sector citizens, by freezing their profits and pensioners and, logically, by local self-government, reducing their spending. Today, when we want to say -- no, it's only 20 billion, because 20 are still owed to them, it would be like if the citizens of Serbia said -- the state owes us frozen earnings and pensions in these past two years. No, that was the deal, that was the budget vote in this House, where we clearly said what could be financed and clearly limited what the budget deficit was. So it is undeniable that this proposal increases the deficit by nearly 40 billion, which is why it is very important to open the debate in parliament as soon as possible how we think we reduce this deficit, to bring it into line with the Financial Responsibility Act, which this same parliament has adopted. In fact, we here can discuss whether this deficit will be reduced by increasing budget revenues. This means, for example, an increase in taxes and contributions, which I think is totally unacceptable given the economic situation at this time in the country, especially given the standard of citizens. Another way can be through delegating some responsibilities and functions from the central level to the local level, which again means that we need to change some laws, to have a serious debate on fiscal decentralisation. Of course, that debate, that concept of decentralisation, which we should agree on, must be deprived of any paternalism that I feel is very present in this bill. What do we actually say? We say – here are local self-governments some income that is originally central income, because it is income from profit. We're going to give you something from the fund that we're going to form, the solidarity fund, but what's your original income, that's what we're going to do at the central level and tell you how big it has to be. So we need to deprive ourselves of such a paternal approach if we want to develop a genuine concept of decentralisation in Serbia. I would also like to point out that it is particularly important that this bill does not further challenge the deepening of the inequalities between cities and municipalities, especially given that all previous governments, from 2000 to today, have highlighted as their policy priority the reduction of regional differences, that we have formed ministries that had only this in office, that we have adopted strategies, that the funds have been spent on these intentions. It should not happen that this bill, not only leaves the differences as they are, but also deepens, and some serious theorists and economists say that whenever it comes to the distribution of central income, it leads to deepening inequality. As a parliamentary group of some amendments, we have tried to reduce the dangers of such a bill, which at first glance does not reduce the inequalities between cities and municipalities, reduce such dangers and expect these amendments to be adopted in this House. I especially want to draw attention to something that I find very incorrect, the way the campaign for this bill was conducted, especially in the interior. So the internal campaign for the bill led through the Satanization of Belgrade's kind of campaign. For God's sake, there's all the money, there's the centralized money. Today in the debate, we hear -- Belgrade is a rich capital, the province is poor, not only Belgrade in the EU. That's just not true. So, by nature, Belgrade has the most diverse and many different resources, including financial ones. It would be very fair to tell citizens that this bill also provides such solutions that Belgrade retains with full rights and expects such a position. So that would be very fair to tell the citizens. So I think it's very important that we have a serious debate about this law, that we immediately start a debate about how we will cause a deficit that will be caused by such solutions, and that normally in the voting day we try to adopt as many amendments to the dangers as possible than some of the solutions offered here to hide this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56425	Nine minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Vlajko Senic has been reported, if you want a replica, there is no basis for replication. There is a representative of the promoter if he wishes, of course, to respond to the MP. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word after him, MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56426	Thank you. True happiness and satisfaction could be heard in the previous discussion of MPs DS Ljiljana Vukic. Why do I start with that? I didn't think of that until I heard her exhibit, of course. I know her exposure doesn't mean the DS will be against a proposal that's on the agenda today. I know and it's announced now that we have heard that certain amendments have been submitted and we need to help how little time we've heard to make this proposal more acceptable. It follows that a previous speaker and someone who leads the Group of the ZES are clearly recognised and that this is about a political compromise. Why do we have political compromises in these things? Because we don't have a consensus or even a thrill in making such a regulation. We have heard from the representatives of the proposings and individual members of that group of URS here in the Serbian Parliament an incredible thesis that who is not in favour of this law, that it is against decentralisation, that whoever does not support the concrete solutions that have been given here is hypocritical if he claims to be decentralisation in this country. Of course, such a thesis is politically incorrect. This would practically mean that everyone who has a proposal here puts it out and who is declaringly going for some purpose, that everyone who is against such a concrete proposal is all automatically against that goal. That's not true. So that's one completely upside-down thesis. I have to tell you right away at the beginning why we would be happy, which sounds nice in this proposal, you might also be pleonasm what I'm going to say, and then I have to say why we'd be against voting for this law. So, what's nice, what's nice about it? Of course, it sounds nice that there is some income that municipalities will collect at a certain fixed mechanism and cities, as this is said in this law when it comes to income tax, which will be in greater amount than before, which will descend from the central register to the municipality by obtaining that income under this very simple and simple criterion that excludes party or centralist party distribution at the discretion. So there's no idea. If someone gets 80% of the income tax per capita who picks up on the territory of that city and the municipality, it's the only criterion. No one can say - you'll get more or less because it's someone's intention. Is that a nice idea, does that sound nice? Yes, indeed. So no one can reason against it, so that's not the point of the story. Do we have any objection to the transfer of funds as non-intentional? According to the key established by law and even by this model proposed here to cities and municipalities because of the need for cities and municipalities to be able to carry out their jobs uninterruptedly either originally or entrusted, no. That idea itself is not a problem. She's useful. So what's the problem here, which is why the DSS parliamentary group doesn't want to vote for a bill like this? Because such beautiful ideas must be found in the bill, not one but in the systematic attack on this Assembly, so to speak, the proposals of the laws that make up the total system package, which must allow, above all, the fiscal of the state register, to survive unscathed, so that it can reconcile its commitments to the budget users. Do I need to explain to my fellow MPs maybe because of citizens watching the transmission of what all budget users are? Budgetary users are, among other things, the ones that put out the fire when it goes off, the firemen. It's police officers, it's an ambulance, it's people in hospitals, state institutions, military, teachers or teachers in high schools, I mean it on purpose, and teachers in primary schools, it's certain people, pensioners, people who deserve to work, their working lives and their jobs deserve certain incomes to their deaths based on insurance, and it's also being compensated from the budget register, because we've got everything upside down. So, if we create a system in which we can easily say or simply say by one legal regulation that some of the funds from the budget cease to serve a particular purpose transitions to another purpose, then we have to answer the question how will this deficit, here no, definitely be made up of the deficit later. We have heard something about this imagination in the opening presentation of the promoter as to how it is solved. We even heard the idea that local self-government municipalities, cities could need their local roads to solve for themselves, that it would take the central cash register to stop getting old and that the way of funding local self-government should be arranged so that cities and municipalities could be able to do so. Today I agree with that, it's okay, the problem is that a concrete bill regardless of the specific parts of your argument that I would like to sign and say 80-90% of what you said. In fact, it doesn't correspond to what you suggested, that's the essence of the story. Let's be very honest and admit it. You have a certain need to talk about it before, though, rather hysterically with replicas and there is no opportunity to explain the essence of what we are talking about. So you're trying to pass a regulation that goes to you for a certain political benefit, incasing yourself to a decentralisation eagle as someone said from our parliamentary group, convincing everyone around that the essence of decentralisation is in fiscal decentralisation. Give money, great, and when you collect petitions, petition signatures, and everyone you ask – you want money, these will all say so. The problem is that you are now in some way in order to say "libu" in an environment, or a static participant as a party, regardless of what you have formally a minister in power or you are from this authority, i.e. from DS to get a certain satisfaction for your position has come to everything that has happened, what the public knows and you now have a need to sort of get out of that story and give yourself a new starting point. These are nice topics, you know, given yourself a nice theme, write schoolwork and say, okay, we're now going to introduce ourselves to citizens as great decentralisationists, people who want to help local self-government. I'm sorry, please, what's almost offensive in that story is that it turns out that no one else in this country, no one, no other political party, thinks about this problem, which is extremely amazing on your part. At first I told you they were nice ideas, let's do what we're gonna do with this, when you make that break from the central till of that extra 40% profit tax. Let us return to our example of Zaječar, when Zaječar makes that money, so do you think that Bosko Nicic will deal with who is in what way and how is it denied by the budget beneficiaries for that same amount of funds that was withdrawn from the central register? He won't. Man doesn't think of that. He's the paradigm of that story, so no one's thinking of it. He won't even think about the president of the DSS, who's going to make him do it? Here, to be honest, it's in the nature of people who run local self-government. It doesn't matter at all. That's not gonna work. That's not how it works. What else is wrong with that promise, that sounds nice and what isn't actually done correctly? If the truth is that this is some heroic shift, that this is a step forward in decentralisation, so let's be prepared to accept a simple fact which is that decentralisation has come realistically to the extent that it is the positive legislation of Serbia and the material regulations that have so far allowed the Constitution itself. The constitution does not impose restrictions, but our laws have been passed to the extent to which they have been passed, they have not yet gone. We don't have any new jurisdiction of the municipalities. You yourself have admitted as a proposer giving and transfering funds imagined and that this new idea of a new derivative income is imagined so that municipalities can make their responsibilities that they already have easier to carry out and implement in life. You don't have that decentralisation story. You have an interesting idea about fiscal deconcentration which is very interesting and deserves attention and would be interesting for a public debate and would be interesting for support to that sea I gave you in this exhibition, but not for adoption in this form in the National Assembly. What DS has to do under the pressure that suffers, so it's going to be putting up with some amendments, getting chestnuts out of the fire, that's another thing. Don't identify us with them. We have the right to tell you what we think, because we do not share responsibility for what you are doing right now. What's the point of the story? In your presentations there were today during the replicas and attitudes of the type - you didn't offer anything. Wait, I'm sorry, this is where your proposal is being discussed. We, truth be told, have not made a proposal, but the responsibility of the ruling parties that make up most of this assembly is to go aggressively with new proposals. The truth is, at a time when Mladjan Dinkic was the finance minister, he left no deficit in the budget or surplus. But if you'll excuse me, it was one government that agreed on it, it was one government where something like that could have happened, because there was an organized system. What does that prove? It proves that none of us as individuals are doing the whole job for ourselves, but are doing it in a different way. If there are no conditions here in today's government for this type of synchronous work, and obviously there are no, because there is no economic policy in the country, it does not mean that we will now be able to agree so easily to each other's bickering and to show the need to present some programs and campaigns and that they are implemented through certain decisions or laws on the National Assembly. We don't agree to that, you do it freely, but that doesn't mean it's a good thing. What are we going to tell the citizens of Serbia? Is the DSS against getting the money? Of course not. You will receive it from local citizens to the extent that this law, which most in the assembly will adopt, allows it. Whether it'll be more or less than what you've had so far, you'll just see it. What's the truth? It is not true that financial decentralisation is in that the funds are available, even if it is by a simple key that does not suffer so easily political pressure, such as this income tax. Exactly what we just heard from DS representatives, that real decentralisation is going on financially at the moment when the municipality and the city are able to write their taxes and taxes, and then they will be able to, for those actions and those jobs that are trusted in jurisdiction. And we really need to finally distinguish deconcentration and decentralisation of the state, that's two different things. So to sum up and finish -- we have nothing against decentralisation. On the contrary, we are all for and not only declaratively, but as soon as we are in an opportunity alone or more likely, with another political party to influence the real government in this country, through the executive authority, above all, and most of all in this assembly, we will show it in action, by systematically separating the powers that need to be and having local self-government increase to the bottom of their needs. This will certainly follow simultaneously and simultaneously financial decentralisation and to some extent deconcentration, but what you suggest is inconclusive, you are already told. As it comes out of this over time, from what's going to get involved with this law, we're just going to see. About that then, but that's why we don't trust each other and we don't want to vote for this, because we believe that a partial solution that sounds bombistic doesn't produce a real effect in reality that would lead to real improvement and real effects for some people. The idea of one unbiased transfer of funds through an increase in the income tax, depending on the residence of these people, leads to a new inequality that you have not found a solution to remove. It's not a stimulating measure of the development of municipalities. How in the municipality, where there are very few employees, very few residents and where are very low wages, that same percentage of the income tax will contribute to the development of the municipality? My people, don't be angry, but that's nonsense. If you wanted to make the right measures regarding financial decentralization and decentralisation, you could have talked about it. You had good government associates, as you didn't, like you weren't a good associate to them, you could have developed that story to the end. Like this in half, it's a marketing trick. Excuse me, please, no marketing trick is easy to write, we can't. Well, somebody doesn't understand what we said, but unfortunately, as it always does with things like this, they'll understand when it's too late, when all this is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56427	Fifteen minutes used by the MP's group. The word has a representative of the proposing MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56428	I'd like to take a chance on both predecessors at the same time to say, since they've brought out three false dilemmas, false dilemmas, so it's not an offensive dilemma. A dilemma can be a fake or a real one. First, is this partial or not? Well, it's not the URS' fault the assembly didn't put all five of our laws in place. It would be more comprehensive if you had included all five laws in this session, and you could have signed another parliamentary group, and that would have been complete. I'm sure it's partial when it's one of the five laws. It is partial, but it's not our fault, we want all the laws to be passed and some new later solutions to be adopted. It's partial, because it's just money, more money for the place. It's not the return of property, it's not the direct choice of mayor, it's not the income of local self-government from the lease of state agricultural land and the property tax to be limited, not to be savage. If it costs, it's the predecessor's confession, it's not you. Well, it costs. Decentralization costs money. But centralization costs a lot more, that's the problem. So centralised and centralism costs a lot more than decentralisation. They cost one and the other because decentralisation means that you're part of the money that's being created in the system you give to cities and municipalities to strengthen it and take it to the Republic and no one here has any other attitude. We suggest that money be taken to the Republic to be given to cities and municipalities. Does that cost the Republic? It's worth it. And it should cost because it's more useful for that money to be distributed by cities and municipalities themselves. It's better for 170 of them to deploy, I'm talking about city administrations than one. They'll do it smarter in many cases, because they'll be able to schedule money for what's most important to them. The Republic can't know what's most important in Leskovac, or in Babusnica, or in Piroth, or in Subotica, or in Somboro. People who live there know that better. It's underestimating the citizens of these cities and their city administrations and saying they don't know that. Maybe some mayors don't even know. It takes citizens to pay the price for choosing the wrong city administrations and eventually selecting others in these elections. Someone asked the question - do they have guarantees that this will help cities and municipalities? There's no guarantee of anything in life. If someone you give money to, the property isn't capable of carrying out anything, and if the citizens are unable to choose, then the citizens are partly guilty. So nothing gives you a guarantee, but this gives you a chance and a chance to make things better. The third dilemma, which is now a really fake dilemma, said the lady that she is not sure, is that at first glance, this does not seem to reduce the existing balance in development. You can really look at this table. If 127% increase for Black Grass or 89% increase for Razanj, compared to 11% increase for Belgrade, is not a decrease in inequality, n, and I know what should be done then? It can only be if 500% would be for a local and 11% for Belgrade. Then someone would say it's even more expensive. Then we're in a vicious circle. So, definitely this proposal reduces the imbalance and disproportion between urban development and municipalities, because it gives the smaller and the poor no longer through the income tax, but combined and double the salary tax and through larger transfers. Is that enough, that's a question. We'll probably say it's not, and it's impossible for these differences to be reduced by a short period of time if they've been made for decades. What I'm saying is that it doesn't even stand to change anything crucial new can be made of this. We're talking about five, six members who need to allow for a fairer distribution of money. Amendments to five, six members are impossible to make a crucial change. So, what I'm saying is that you can vote, you can't not vote for this, you can't say it's not a good proposal because we're simply giving the city first to compete by who's going to hire more people to keep more income in their register, and we're giving the poor more money through transfers. Who's losing? He's losing the Republic. We're rooting for the Republic to lose, because it can't distribute income and expenditure in local self-government. This has been shown in all countries in Europe and the world. The central government doesn't know how to run local finances, and it doesn't need to run local finances and local projects. The central state should only jump in where local self-government is powerless. It's when they're elemental accidents, when some regional projects are on local self-government territory, nothing more than that. Everything else can be done by the cities and municipalities themselves, but they have to have money. So this is just the first step, because it's only one law, and we've passed five laws. It costs, but it costs a lot more not to apply because what's the price if it doesn't apply? It means further deepening the differences between small and poor cities and Belgrade. She's not even a co-worker when she said that everything in Belgrade is so colorful and that in all other cities of the situation it's not so difficult. Belgrade is actually the only city today that pays 100% compensation to its pregnant women. It is not possible in the King either, it is not possible in Vranje, regardless of who is in power and where. Why? Because Belgrade has so much income that it can do so. It can co-finance the difference between 65%, how much the Republic pays and 100%, what it is for pregnant women, and everyone else can't do that. We give opportunity through this model, which is similar to the Scandinavian model, where the social component in expenditure is significant, that other cities, that both Kings and Subotics can, if they will, if it's their priority to make tomorrow's decision. If Subotica gets 800 million dinars more than this, why don't you and Subotica make a decision that 100 percent of the family benefits are paid by co-financed by this 30% difference? It will be possible for every city in Serbia. It will be possible for even the Sjenica, because its budget will be increased by 240 million dinars, which is a huge increase for such a small municipality. It's simple, we can tell if this is enough and always hurts if we could give more. We have tried to find a simple measure between the needs of the locals to perform existing functions in a quality way and the sustainability of the macro-economic system. We believe that what costs this bill is a small price relative to the loss that accumulates unless anything is done and done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56429	National MP Milos Aligrudic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56430	What you don't think the Republic can do is because it's proven in these three years, Mr Dinkic, you can't compensate by transferring it to local self-government, or you can, but provided you know what's being transferred from these jobs. So, one question is whether local self-government can withstand its current powers with money being transferred or going to business, and the other is a matter of jurisdiction, the other is a matter of obligation and who will carry out those obligations and for what money. That's a question you don't give an answer to at all. Not even now, in this explanation for a moment, we haven't heard specifically, and you know very well what we've asked you. As for the first one you referred to, which is that there is no comprehensive proposal, yes, you have passed five laws, the problem is that even these five laws do not answer certain questions. You know that, for example, if someone collects a certain income and you want it to really be the income of local self-government from these profits, in order for the story to be complete, to be layishly expressed, it is necessary that this same level of local government or local self-government, better said, follows both the realization and realization of that income. That means he needs an inspection. They don't have that inspection. We don't have that proposal. We also don't have a proposal on what happens to those users who will certainly be in the event of an increase in deficits that can't really be covered from real sources in the next period, which will suffer for it. You're saying - I don't care what the Republic does with its obligations in relation to budget users who, under current laws, fall under the obligation of the Republic, it's important that we finish this job because it's politically useful. This is not possible because these users live as citizens, relatives and friends of these same people in the territories of those same municipalities you speak of. Well, they're not each other on Mars and the other on Venus. They're our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56431	The word has a folk MP, Riza Halimi, and after that, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56432	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as so far, I support the idea of decentralisation. Today's debate is useful, as is the one we had during the debate on statistical regions. This will likely help to change the situation with existing political situations when it comes to decentralisation, but it is certainly also useful for local self-government with this fact to increase funds. The models must be complete. Is it possible for the amendments, whether it's in some continuity, it's also possible, but it's necessary because look at only these groups about the means of solidarity. It's absolutely impossible to develop specific problems for the most underdeveloped when you create a whole group of 44 different municipalities. When you look at this data that we've received from the main residents, it turns out that the income tax and these changes are among the most underdeveloped again very low. It's the lowest in Presevo. Simply, the number of employees is the smallest, the unemployment rate is record. The strangest thing is that this model of specificity and differences in mountainous mountainous areas that have been the problem of society for a long time and those on Corridor 10, such as Bujanovac and Presevo, where, in my opinion, artificially in the last 12 years, there has been a setback due to the ghettoisation of new borders, because there have been workers from other areas, not workers from these municipalities, and now we are double damaged. First of all, they're not employees of these municipalities. Secondly, taxes on employees are now paid by place of residence. I think that's double discrimination. The largest number of employees in Presevo municipality is in state institutions that have occurred in the last 12 years due to changes that occurred during this period.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56433	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56434	I will use the time devoted to the Progressive Group to clarify the little honesty of the approach to the development of local self-government and honesty and the passion to defend the interest of local self-government. First, I will remind all of us, and especially those who would like to forget when we talked here about the Law on reducing the administration at the local level and at the republican level. Remember I warned you that we had a much stricter approach when it comes to local self-government. They were limited by the number of employees by certain criteria, and if they do not apply it as we have plotted, i.e. you who voted in favour of this called law, which was also scarce and looked like one regulation, they were immediately suspended from the transfer of funds, but therefore the republican administration had an obligation only to bring systematicisation by the end of the year. Today we read in the newspaper texts under which under this law in the Republic administration, the surplus of state secretaries, 80 of them, counselors and similar ones, even counts on how much severance they can take, which they have no right to under the law at all. I believe Mr Dinkic is just thinking about this kind of savings when he says there is savings in the Republic government and they should not ask yourself and those who think only of themselves and do not think about lower levels of government. But I can't say that they will sincerely advocate better use of funds or this on a republican level, neither at the local level, when neither one thinks about creating conditions for the economy to function. If I remind G 17 that in May 2009 the SNS in Kragujevac, not in a secret circle but in a huge hall, exposed the programme of deconcentration of ministries, where there is no dear colleague of mine in Novi Pazar, was exactly foreseen, due to specific circumstances, the Ministry of Interior, to be there, we are for this project that is not even a newspaper and has been implemented successfully in Germany. But we haven't had a chance to do that, and what somebody else set it off, it's not a problem. But the problem is that they approach it superficially and copy ideas, not honestly and consistently, by performing it as an interest of the citizens, but by once again missing through this prism of party interests, any project. Why am I saying that? Believe me, I am truly surprised by the information Mr Dinkic has provided here, and I trust him that he could not have obtained information from the Ministry of Finance so he could make this proposal. It's tragic in a country where we advocate data transparency. If the Assembly, the one in which we are sitting and the number of each drunk coffee and every tax on employee's salary, is it entitled to pension, did 944 dinars pay for making parliamentary visa cards, why couldn't an MP, a team before the former Deputy Prime Minister, get reliable information and stimulate the financial effects of this law to present to us? Believe me, I feel bad about being a witness to this kind of behavior. What does that mean? Anyone's will depends on whether an MP can get the information to prepare a legal project? Or does it have to be managed in some way I don't know what way, whether it's through the Commissioner for Information or the Protector of Citizens, or if I don't know who? This is not an honor to this government either, and it has made it impossible for the promoter to do a quality program. I'm not in the situation today, even though I think I'm on average intelligent, to check it out. I'm more sure of the data we've been doing ourselves. But it's a really embarrassing fact that you can't prepare a proposal without getting into how honest, well-meaning you are, how politically you're going to use it. But, Mr. Dinkic, don't let me remind you that Peter Doyle confirmed what Mr. Cvetkovic said when you were handing over the Ministry of Finance to each other. You have reportedly left a surplus in the budget and we are still one kilo of these papers, I am not a collector but a serious MP, I am still keeping one draft of the budget, and the other, in which your surplus was not even the result of the methodology but of the unproduced debt to the Republic Health Insurance Office, which is what Mr Cvetkovic answered when we asked him how the surplus turned into a deficit. What's the big deal? What we live in a country where we're not sure what GDP is. Here I will refer to the prominent New Zealand journalist Dimitri Boarov, who, in his own time, expressed his own surprise that we made $12 billion of GDP in five years, when we were already alone as a state of Serbia, to a double amount? I have repeatedly wondered whether mathematics is an exact science, and what progress has been made in double-increasing GDP? No, it's not true that he's double and he's increased. It can't even explain the methodology, but it should have served as a broader basis for borrowing. That's not good, and with that practice, it has to be broken. I'm saying it in the context of this law. It is impossible to so dramatically distinguish the data provided by the Fiscal Council, the IMF and the legislator of this law. In the same people, in the same numbers, in the same number of employees, on the same laws, we come up with completely different data. This raises a much bigger question – abuse of information or loss of trust in anything. Who among us is right now if I say – Mr Dinkic, you wanted to free the economy that is the only basis that can enable local self-governments to live better by having bigger income taxes that some really employed people will receive, not those trapped in agencies, in political parties as permanent employees, but people who will deal with real, concrete jobs. Our future is in processing. If you set a tax, what we call a company in absolute amount, so you define it as a double amount of earnings, etc., will the time come in this country in accordance with the incomes, i.e. the basic set of tax rules, in accordance with the economic power of the taxpayer, determine both the tax or the tax to be paid? Why? When someone points out the company, it's like writing a name and a last name on the door of your apartment. It's not a commercial. You can't take from someone drastically high amounts of money, which some local self-government does, because the Republic doesn't transfer funds to them and take a huge amount of it. No, let's believe again in the Accounting and Audit Act, so we can believe that companies will bring out real data on their incomes and that, as we suggested, we set that fee as 1% of their annual income. And not you to say, two average salaries, and now some small company pays for it, too, and some company that's big, rich, it's doing a good job. That's not proportionate to economic strength. And we don't need to bring taxpayers, especially not in the economy, that he can't pay and finance the state from his current incomes, but he has to hurt on his property. That's the elemental logic we have to stick to. What it is is pointing out the tax and the company as a kind of advertising on some public surface or anywhere else, it really needs to be charged by the more expensive tariffs and by the one who wants to advertise, go ahead and pay. But what's simple representation, it's not right to pay in such a way. I'll try not to use it all the time, but I have to say something that can help you think till Tuesday, when we start talking about this part of equating the difference through the fund that you've imagined as a fund for transfer of solidarity. I believe that income tax funds from employees of all public funds, other than those established by local self-government, should be the basis for the allocation into that fund and that this harmonisation of the differences is done from that fund, i.e. providing solidarity. But why do you call solidarity every citizen's contribution to creating natural resources and participation in their spending? Why do you call solidarity if a citizen of Leskovac gets part of the budget in proportion to the citizen of Belgrade since flying over the sky of the Serbian state? Is this the sky created by the Civil Aviation Directorate? Or the flight control agency? What's their profit fund? 100 million euros a year. What's the tax rate? The salary tax is almost one billion dinars. That is more than the total of ten undeveloped municipalities, although the Serbian sky belongs to all residents. So the basic setting for each citizen of Serbia, each individual, to have a fundamental human right of equal access to resources, should first be measured here. So, all of what is called public resources, public services, because I say -- you need to finance both pensions and those who put out fires, and those who maintain order, and those who teach our children, but not only do they all finance them and that they receive pay, but that when we finance a company that you hand-to-hand to restructure as important, it does not pay taxes and contribute to its local self-government, so you allow the purchase of standings from budgets that are filled equally through VAT by all Serbian citizens, so that the proportion of contributions and benefits must be contained here, otherwise, there is no right to be called either transfer or solidarity. It's not solidarity, it's like for local self-government you're pushing for whoever's creating and winning. Do you know that a large number of these local self-government are real economic failures, which can't even finance their own expenses? I ask you to consider the basis and the mass of the funds for this transfer that needs to be equated to giving to those who are unable to make and earn, not what they will not, not because they are incompetent, but because the resources of large enterprises and what is the exploitation of these resources are concentrated in these large cities. I simply want to save a good tone because I realized when my colleague Ljiljana Lučić, who I have known for a long time since 1993 in the Assembly, literally admitted in her presentation that this project would be adopted, but with some amendments. I want to preserve your good will not to harm all of Serbia from this project, but under the mask of good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56435	Thirteen minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Vlajko Senic, and after that, MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56436	Dear People's MPs, I don't think we should talk to the citizens, I don't think there's any transmission. Here, for seven, eight hours of this debate, and I have to say that I'm really almost here all the time, and I haven't been able to record any argument or suggestion that would talk about how decentralisation, which everyone said was necessary, to do in a different way at this point, cheaper, better, more efficient or faster. Our initiative is one big thing that needs to solve one of the biggest diseases that today has bound Serbia, which is the issue of centralised. So today Serbia has also suffered from centralism. These two diseases lead to corruption. It seems to me that our intention to in one way, I would say, an effective way to improve the quick and real position of local self-government, not to help some buildings or employees of people in municipalities, but to people living in these local self-governments, is welcomed politically on the knife, which is legitimate, it's politics and it's a political struggle, but without any proposal or alternative that could offer citizens a solution to this problem, which we all agreed together here that it exists. Mr. Dinkic talked about it, it's no secret, so we're in favour of decentralisation policy. Every policy has a certain price. Just as centralised policy has a price, decentralisation has a price. It's just a question of who's gonna pay this price? Was it logical when the impact of the global economic crisis came to reduce the cost of local self-government? Of course, because there is no organized force or force that could have fought for the interests of local self-government. 172 municipalities could not come before the Serbian government and protest and fight for their interests. In this way, we want to protect people living in these municipalities in the future, so that most of the income they make is not any political, economical or any third will of the government that is doing the ruling coalition at that time. I don't think the remarks we heard about the campaign being against Belgrade are true. The campaign wasn't against Belgrade. We want to join the EU. The EU has richer and less rich ends. What makes richer countries in the EU decide to help countries less rich in the EU through certain transfers or to help countries that want to join the EU? Because one system can't survive if the income difference is 200-1 or 150-1. As rich as the EU is in Brussels, it as an economic and political form cannot survive if Belgrade is 150 times poorer than Brussels. That is why such a policy, through funds and through help, sees that one continent, political and economic, is held at the rally, to maintain its cohesion. The same is true of Serbia. It is impossible to move forward if one part of Serbia has a 200 GDP index, and everyone else below 100, even Vojvodina fell below 100, has 98, and Serbia is 67, etc. So it's our obligation to help municipalities that can't obviously go forward on their own, give them our hand, give them these transfers, help them have bigger incomes, establish certain institutions and atmospheres that would allow for greater investment and some better development in the future. So I think that this proposal is indeed a small revolution that is happening in Serbia and will certainly cause some earthquakes at the central level. But it's not our concern to worry about it. We have the support of citizens, 515,000 signatures, to do what is in our power to make them live better. I guess it's easier to adjust the central budget than to pay the price for local self-government and citizens living in 170 municipalities in Serbia. What we said today during the day, everyone who criticises us starts from the premise that this will cause a 43 billion dinar budget hole. No one wants to hear our arguments that it's less of a transfer, that it's actually 20 billion, that you have projects of locals at the central level and that there will certainly be some other legal solutions in the future that will allow our proposal to remain fiscally neutral. If you have a fiscally neutral proposal, if you have the possibility that people in the restaurant have more money, I don't see any reason why this politically uncolored initiative doesn't get the support of all the parliamentary groups in the Assembly. We'll do it a hundred times, if we have to, we have 11 mayors. So this isn't any pre-election campaign, this isn't any money that goes into any party register or billboards or videos, we run as a party to our campaign and we pay it to the money of the party. This is a process and an attempt to change some things in Serbia because it has been 11 years and we have no guarantee because it is obviously a decentralisation of a subject that will not be a condition, at least soon, of our European integration. We here change the things the EU gives us as an agenda. Since decentralisation will not be a question in the next short term for the EU's approach, our wish was also a commitment to citizens who support us to do something that will allow us to start some new energy and hope that in Serbia we can live in some other places, not only in Belgrade and Novi Sad. I think today's debate and debate that will be on Tuesday and everything we hear in public these days is our big victory, not as parliamentary groups, but as a principle that you can on the agenda and on the political scene in Serbia to push through a topic that interests citizens. So, it's not a proposal from the government, it's not a proposal from the ruling coalition, it's the desire of 515 people who asked us to change a system that doesn't suit them, we did it, and we're going to do it with this law, and we're sending a message to all the other political parties that there's no reason not to try to change some things that can be triggered for the better. That is why we believe that Tuesday's debate will also give enough space to some opposition parties, if they eliminate their relationship with us as foreigners or coalitions, if they turn to what we say professionally and reasonedly, supported by facts, to give us support for this law. No one will fall for the rating if they come to their citizens in their place, in their town, in their municipality and say-good, it is proposed by a party with which we are completely different, but you will benefit and we will all benefit from it together and therefore we will vote in favour of this law. Believe that every MP from the opposition, who supports us, just because he cares about the citizens he represents, will certainly get much more support in the next elections than this linear rejection of a proposal, because it comes from the United Regions of Serbia. This isn't our election campaign. Until the election, there's enough. This is our attempt, successful, to change the system in Serbia that is centralized, which is a brake of further economic development and which, if it does not change, will result in a completely drastic depletion of certain parts of Serbia. We'll have all of Serbia centered in several cities, and I'm sure none of you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56437	Eight minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. After that, the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56438	Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly believe that without great passion and neutrally observing this proposal, because it is both from a legal and economic point of view interesting. In this regard, we will not enter into the motives of the legislator, although it can be said that there can only be three motives. One is an economic species. The second meeting of EU standards and the third is pure populism or exploiting the justified dissatisfaction of our citizens outside Belgrade, Novi Sad and dissatisfaction with the work of the government. As for meeting European standards, it's enough to look at that so-called. a declaration that now every draft law has on compliance with the aquimuner, and we will see that this law does not match either the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, or the primary or secondary parts of the aquimuner or EU law. So, we remain as a motive for proposing this law economic improvement or populism or more accurate exploitation of something that exists as a kind of dissatisfaction. Unfortunately, here we had a whole day of listening to a little bit of opportunistic thesis, that the government is guilty, Belgrade is guilty, the United regions are guilty, etc. We in the SRS think there is a culprit and it is the main culprit for this poor situation in Serbia's regions, in municipalities in cities and that is the IMF. It is not necessary to run away from this topic, because it is clear to anyone who looks at what the RS government agreed on on 26 March 2009 with the IMF. Unfortunately, there was also a proposal for this law, so it cannot be said that he is not familiar with it and he is one of those who conducted negotiations with the IMF and has just asked the IMF to freeze wages and pensions from the Republic of Serbia, reducing local self-government by the March 2009 bill of 160m euros. That's a lot of money. And these are precisely the reasons why after two years of applying conditions or ultimatums however you want the IMF to collapse local self-government in Serbia. So the culprit is in the IMF and in those who meet those conditions. These are figures, these are facts and it cannot be disputed either by transferring guilt to the government, or by transferring guilt to Belgrade or by vice versa to those who are currently representing the bill. So the first thing to say is that there has been such a collapse and why in one particular sense there has been a collapse of local self-government. Also, there is no need to justify the EU which, you certainly know that through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, more specifically, Article 114 plays a united economic role together with the IMF and the EU and the IMF jointly act and jointly impose all these conditions that are fatal to local self-government. In that sense, I must note that there is one conflict between the legislators of the law personally, which is a good economist and someone who was vice-president of the government, who unfortunately met the very conditions of this IMF and therefore has been so strange, I must say, the bill that is unarranged, vague and in essence you will see that no improvement for this country as a whole will be, but only for its parts, and for other parts of the state and other parts of the economy will only result in a deterioration. That is why it is completely unclear in the two-way between economists and legislators, when he said in 27.10.2010 that wages and pensions should be increased and consumption increased and unemployment decreased. We totally agree with that. But why it was not represented in principle, clearly and decisively, in the negotiations with the IMF. So there's a kind of conflict between economic reality and a kind of pulsism. Also, when we look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, we will see that around 790m euros are allocated from the income tax to citizens and that these are the revenues of the budget. On the other hand, we have a total of around 400m euros in taxes on citizens' earnings. So that number should be distributed so that 80% of it goes to local self-government. But then what happens to other budget users? What's gonna happen to the pensioners? What's going to happen to the Home Office? What will happen to our education, to the socially endangered? So we will have certain self-governments that will inevitably benefit from it, but who will support the pensioners? Who's gonna support the police? Yet Serbia is one whole, you cannot see only one city as a separate element of the Republic of Serbia. So in this sense, the whole law is undefined, vague and it is essentially harmful for the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Also, Article 9 of the law states that the city of Belgrade will give threem euros to help municipalities. That's, you'll admit to one of those big budgets, very little and not enough. And that's the same kind of pulsism and that should be made clear. Of course, here we have listened to criticism that we from the opposition, from the SRS, are not offering any solution and we are only criticising it, and that is, you will recognise a flat-rate provision and we will give you concrete solutions, but they need one political courage, a political courage that will primarily take account of the economic interests of the Republic of Serbia. First, our proposal is that, and this once again gave us the idea of the Hungarian prime minister, who was visiting the Republic of Serbia yesterday, to introduce one transition tax, one extra tax, administrations to those who are the largest monopolies in the Republic of Serbia, which are foreign banks or banks from the EU. If Mr. Prime Minister of Hungary had so much courage, although the country is in the EU, I don't see why the legislator or the ruling majority do not have the courage to simply introduce such a type of tax, which, according to all public data, will bring about 700m euros in extra income to Hungary. It's a lot more than it's going to get by this harmful surplus of funds from the Republic to the locals and it's quite clear. Our second proposal, and this is also a constructive proposal and a proposal for which it should have both political, economic and any other courage, is to give up the application of a harmful transitional trade agreement with the EU, because no one in this room can deny that in 2011 it is because of this and that application that is economically harmful, and probably to you political goods, the Republic of Serbia loses around 130m euros just because of the drop in customs revenues. So you have one concrete proposal, you have another concrete proposal, and we can be even clearer and even more precise. You have monopolies like Delta. You have Mr. Miskovic, you have Mr. Beck and all those in some kind of interspace between the law and some gray zone. Bring in their taxes, too. Introduce a kind of social, economic and other justice, and you will get a lot more funding than is mentioned here in your proposal, somewhere around 23 billion dinars or 230m euros, and you will get and improve the central government and improve local authorities. Of course, as far as we're concerned, we've heard here that these are European standards, that this should be applied, etc., etc. I will remind you, you certainly know that under the current Lisbon Treaty you have exactly one provision that is far from being economically justified, but possibly politically, that exactly the most developed EU country, Germany, is entitled to additional transfers to regions in East Germany. If the EU's leading country applies such a standard, why don't you apply it? Why are you bending in front of IMF demands? Show some economic and political courage. The main problem of this challenge is not the government, not even the City of Belgrade, although we think nothing of the government nor of those who lead Belgrade today, but of the IMF and the EU who lead and determine politics. Simplely, the culprit for the poor condition of our municipalities, our regions and cities are known. Simply, you need to show some kind of political and economic courage, as your guest yesterday, Mr. Orvan, has shown, and you need to tax, I repeat again, and that is our concrete proposal, foreign banks, monopolies, precisely from the EU, which have over 75% of the financial market in the Republic of Serbia. Remove the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because it is harmful for our budget, for our economy and for all those you want to help and, of course, to tax Mr. Miskovic and Mr. Beck. According to their data, for example, Delta says it has income, they themselves say, of two billion euros, and that it pays a tax of 200 million. So a kind of well-intentioned council on our part and a kind of constructive proposal that will not burst passions will not break one link between Belgrade and the region, but will contribute to one economic stability, a more normal political life, which apparently the EU and the IMF have been destroying for years in the Republic of Serbia. So, things are clear, you just have to look at them with real eyes, neutrally, impartially, and without any passion, and you'll see what's the main problem and why people live so badly in regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56439	It was used 11 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. I also apologize to MP Srdjan Milivojevic and MP Meh Omerovic for unintentional announcements based on false information on the order of registered speakers. So, MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56440	I thank you, Vice President, and I accept your apology. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, I am, of course, the majority of MPs in this room, and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for decentralisation and greater independence of local self-government units, both from municipalities, through cities in Serbia and to the City of Belgrade. However, this law reminds me of that famous story about the Dark Fairy. He says, "If you take it, you will regret it, and if you do not take it, you will regret it again." Why do I say that? The amendments to this law could indeed produce the expected effects, which have been respected by colleagues from the URS parliamentary group and listed in their explanation of the Amendments and Supplements to this law, which are related to income from the profit tax, but only on one condition, which is to provide all necessary conditions for job creation and new employment. We all know very well that this is the biggest problem in the country we live in. These conditions, therefore, are primarily the creation of stable political opportunities, good and clear laws and incentive measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that would be brought into continuous dialogue between the government, the private sector and the union. As far as we are all going to succeed together, first of all from the ruling coalition, I think that the amendments to this law could be positively reflected in small and undeveloped municipalities in the coming year, but unfortunately it is uncertain to predict it. As chairman of the Assembly Committee on Labour and Social Policy, I would especially like to point out that the Social Economic Council, made up of representatives of the government, employers and trade unions, must be, to express myself freely and figuratively, in a permanent session. Why? Well, it's very hard for us as a society to be able to get out of a crisis that we've been in for over two years. This is part of the story I wanted to mention, and it's about the law that's on the agenda. Also, I think it refers to a package that supported 515 thousand citizens with its signatures, and I would like to point out this opportunity to the most important fact, and that is, to implement essential decentralisation, we must respect both the Constitution and the laws that we have adopted in this high house. I would remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006 contains significant newspapers and shifts in relation to the earlier 1990 Constitution. The provisions in the 2006 Serbian Constitution open the door to what is the topic and which is the support of 515 thousand citizens, which is essential democratisation. It's being looked at in the following facts. In Article 86. The constitution, I quote, is shown – public property is state property, property of autonomous provinces and property of units of local self-government. In Article 87. Serbia's constitution says property of the autonomous province and local self-government units will be regulated by law. In Article 190(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to - the municipality manages the municipal property on its own. In the Law on Local Self-Government, let me remind you, from 2007 in Article 15 it is prescribed, quote – the unit of local self-government has its own property and manages it independently in accordance with the law. So, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, it's no longer about whether we want to or not to pass certain laws. The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly and precisely requires that laws be passed to make public property and specify what state property is, and what is the property of an autonomous province, i.e. the property of local self-government, municipality or city. Whether it will be the Law on Public Property proposed by fellow Members of the United Regions of Serbia or by the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is, you will agree, and we all know very well from practice, the matter of political agreement. Besides, it's not enough just to say in the Law of Local Self-Government that the municipality has property, it has to be determined, which is exactly and precise property. In any case, of course, I advocate decentralisation, because it is our constitutional and legal obligation for the government to approach, both seriously and very cautiously and the laws to which we are bound by the Constitution must be brought in due course. Not because of Europe, not because of what is on the map of the road to obtain candidate status for EU membership, but because of ourselves, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because of respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When I say that we must approach this issue with caution, it means that local structures of government must now prepare and introduce new jobs and those who expect them in the future. When establishing which municipal property is and which is the city's property, immovableity, moving things etc. must be managed by people who know how to manage the property, therefore, the best experts in the area. This is another reason amongst the many reasons why the partyocracy, which has been so many words today and the previous days in public when this law is spoken of, has to give way to people's management positions of knowledge. The president of municipalities will be expected to host well in the future, to increase municipal revenues on their own. Today we have local self-government and good hosts, but unfortunately this is not the rule in all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What we need to do right now is to organize, in addition to preparing new laws, training for local administrations and local officials to know that they manage property for the rational and domestic business that I was talking about. That would end this brief exposure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56441	Six minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Sasa Milenić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56442	The Honorable President, Vice President of the National Assembly, without wanting to be pathetic and to claim that every congregation word should be approached as a Reverend Cup, I am somehow inclined to announce this kind of patheticness in my address, because we are above the discussion of the subject, which in the deepest meaning of that word I consider my own. So please, before I approach that glass, let me first chase the wine flies that have gathered over it, and here is the metaphor's drozophile that needs to mimic the argument without the force of logical justification. In fact, the arguments that failed to build a logical system and a theoretically reasonablely based objection were indeed born. But it's hard to catch in that birth some real sense with the real, I can tell you a surprising, object. Just thanks to your tolerance in giving the right to a replica, I find a motive that, after so much mentioning my name, I still don't take advantage of any negative meaning as a cause for replication, because I have learned that, with the heavy accusations that I am a poet, a philosopher, even a professor, I am low, I admit it all, just astounding – from which political platforms, if liberal political culture through the history of modern civilization is just building those who are at least some of the things mentioned. I didn't know about that hunting, Gresser or what model of a liberal political platform, which is viewed with contempt for poets, philosophers and professors, but I had opportunities today and face it. However, much more serious than that are, let's say, the objections we are able to hear – that this law, for example, does not address important issues such as the issues of the province's autonomy of Vojvodina, that this law does not address the issue of increasing the number of jobs that our economies need. Also, I am free in this critical series to continue that it seems to me, of great importance and a question of God's existence that this law really fails to resolve, because it deals with something much more modest, more elemental, more specific, and that is the sole question of funding local self-government, and that is, as if all these tendencies were counterarguments wanted to ignore the once skillful phrase in the labelling of the law. Namely, it is called "Dinkic's Law on decentralisation", so I would like to disclose and disprove the strategy to analyse this completely incorrect name. Is this the Dinkic law? It certainly is in the sense that Mladjan Dinkic is president of the URS parliamentary group, who are the legislator of this law and in an even stronger sense, that he is also the leader of the team that worked on the text in question. Don't forget that name, too, to try to distract you from the facts, I repeat, that this is the most massive legislative initiative, with the largest number of citizens' signatures in the history of Serbian parliamentism coming to the Serbian parliament. It has a serious character of the people's initiative, and for formal reasons alone, we, as proposings, did not go into the form of a folk initiative, so that we would not be wrong there about some very strict and precise deadlines, so we obtained a folk petition. Then, if it were the law, there was a little more modest our intention, this is just one bill of amendments and additions, not the original law. For what? We also demonstrate a kind of responsibility and seriousness to the topic of decentralisation. We introduced this topic, if you remember, with a big debate on regionalisation, through a proposal for a law on even regional development. Obviously, at that time, we estimated that this is a very hard topic for unprepared public, although it, there is no doubt, belongs to the scope of decentralisation, nor to it we give up, but we want in one special way to create a consensus, a majority political will for decentralisation as a political process of emancipation of society with us. That's why we're performing a national petition, with a limited number of laws that, be careful, in full scope, if we were to put all five here on the agenda and adopt from then on, it's not the end of the decentralisation process. That's why it seems to me that the creators of this "Dinkic's decentralisation Law" floss as if they're trying to say – if we put up with this somehow, tomorrow we'll be able to say that we've decentralised Serbia. No, this is just a minimal initial step that seems to be of good faith and intent to create a majority consensus, preferably a mood about the decentralisation process for Serbia. Here is the essence of the situation, the depth of centralisation in the control of vital, not only political, overall life processes in Serbia are so dramatic that the issue of decentralisation is directly related to the issue of survival of Serbia, the nation, society, which is more acceptable to you or less pathetic. Let me try to illustrate that a little bit in numbers. Two plagues are eating Serbia. One is called the white plague, and thanks to its operation, we count every year for 30,000 people less. So, one municipality of Topola disappears from our community every year. The second plague is Belgrade. At least 30,000 cross from within Serbia every year to live in Belgrade. An Aran Angel moves from Serbia every year to Belgrade. By 2000, every fourth employee in Serbia worked in Belgrade. Today, every third employee in Serbia works in Belgrade. From year to year, 100,000 employees are less employed in Serbia, except Belgrade. The struggle of Belgrade employees does not decrease. Belgradeisation is an unpopular word, but primarily because we don't understand each other when we talk about the process he claims is the basic social process in Serbia. Who's his carrier and what's this about? A misrepresentation, which only those who do not want to understand the dramatics of the centralised Serbian process, is suggested to be the city of Belgrade as an architectural-urbanist continent or a location. It's just a matter of work. You don't think that critics of Belgrade can't see that Belgrade, as an urban location, is one of Serbia's civilization uprisings whose future we fight for as fresh air. Of course we want the development of all parts of Serbia, including Belgrade. Is it then the local self-government of the city of Belgrade, or citizens of Belgrade? Of course not. (President: National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. )......................................................................................................... I just want to finish my sentence. Obviously, there are social groups that are successfully guided by this process and the subject of the discontinuity that we are so pleased to talk about, in this sense is fully equated with the topic of decentralisation. That's why I understand the resistance of this effort.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56443	The People's Messenger, Zoran Shami, has the word, after which the Messenger Srdjan Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56444	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow at the beginning of a little depression. Today we had a debate on a single law. It's my impression that I'm not quite sure if it was quite on the agenda, but on the agenda was one pre-election campaign of some parliamentary groups, and when I say it, I don't only remember those who spoke, but maybe a little bit more than those who kept quiet. I listened very carefully to Mr Dinkic's opening statement and immediately to say, all his attacks on centralism in Serbia and the need to carry out decentralisation, I will sign immediately. When I say that I do not say, as someone said, hypocritically but I will only remind all those present that when the DSS was made in 1992, the first programme of the party said that it was necessary to decentralise Serbia, which not so many people in this Parliament, there are not many, but those who were then informed know it themselves. Of course, that Serbia needs to be decentralisationd, it just needs to be done in a valid way by putting what you have put to the end at the beginning. Fiscal policy is a consequence, not a cause. Fiscal policy is due to the full and precise, rational definition of rights and competences and obligations of local communities. So first we have to define which part of the education, which part of the health care and at all what part of the public some important jobs should be left to the local community, not because it's modern, but because it would be rational and practical and then, when these jobs are fully defined, of course, find the means that will allow the local community to do these jobs and do them. On the other hand, what Mr Dinkic was not exactly exposed, which I don't really blame him very much, is the history of Serbia's centralisation. I don't want to spread that story too much, but right now, I'm telling you that Serbia was decentralised by your current coalition partner at the moment he lost his first municipalities in Serbia, early 1990s. It began with Old Town and Vrakar as two urban municipalities. Then emergency city municipalities in Belgrade were disbursed and everything transferred to Belgrade City's jurisdiction, and then other municipalities were disbursed. The party in Milosevic's power then, the SPS, did so because they had the following logic – we have an uncut power in the Republic, therefore there are some insubordinate municipalities where it won at the time so-called. The opposition will see how they'll have a good time. Unfortunately, there's no power. I'll tell you why the DSS didn't do it right away. I'll tell you why. Because we are not a whole coalition at a time when we were in power, we were able to convince that something like this is necessary, and that is to carry out the necessary decentralisation of Serbia. Now it's worth saying something about respecting the law. In a law passed by the finance minister at the time, and the proposer of this law, Mr Dinkic, it was precisely written that 1.7% of gross-national income must be separated by local self-government. That's what the current government hasn't respected in the last three years. I must admit that Mr. Dinkic in this regard, the criticism of this was very convincing, so convincing that, by any chance, I was Deputy Prime Minister at the time, and Mr. Dinkic was sitting in opposition, I would feel terribly uncomfortable. The second question is whether separation from the state budget, perhaps that should be done, is the only way to help municipalities. I'm saying it's not. When Serbia's centralisation was carried out in the early 1990s, then an important tax was abolished, it is a municipal sales tax. It's just that there's so much increase in the Republic tax. The logic of the owners at the time was very clear – we will collect all the sales tax, and then we will share it according to our own understanding to those who are obedient. It seems to me today that logic is still in effect. By the way, I think it's appropriate to introduce a community tax, so that would be the right thing to do. Why? Take a walk around Serbia – Krusevec, Šapec, Užic, whatever you want and you will see empty bars in the center of town, and flea market bloom. Why? Because the municipal government has no interest in increasing traffic in its municipality, while at the same time harvesting revenue from flea markets, it is interested in spreading flea markets. One more thing, fascination with percentages. You know, I've been teaching the last two finance ministers, and Mrs Dragutinovic and Mr Cvetkovic, that 99% is zero, zero, and 10% is a hundred dinars, ten dinars. So you can raise the percentages on pay-outs as much as you want, if you don't have those salaries, the result will be zero. I was counting, do you know how much this government has cut the local community's income just on account of about 400,000 people losing their jobs, count on their average of 200 euros and calculate how lost it is that those who are still employed today have 100 euros less than four years ago? Do you know what the loss is? The loss is eight billion dinars. It's so lost. Therefore, if we have power like this 80 percent so far, which will be taxed on wages, there will be nothing. Therefore, all in all, it is necessary to pass the right and rational laws to define the competences, obligations and rights of local communities. Based on that, we program solutions for how to cover money and who it suits, including stories about these inspections and everything else, and then we can discuss whether it should be like this, whether it should be like that or not. In the end, I'm not sure and I don't like it, I don't think your current coalition partners in this game are fair enough to let go of that story in principle – it can't hurt us, and if someone gets embarrassed, you'll embarrass yourself. That's not what I'm looking forward to, let me tell you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56445	The word has a proposing representative, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56446	Thank you for your concern, but I would never sign a proposal with the idea of embarrassing myself. Indeed, what we discussed earlier does not matter whether it will be in the next government, even in the wake of the next Parliament, it is much more important to me to face it and not to embarrass myself. That is why I may have suggested a slightly higher percentage of the income tax than mathematics would ask – 80% of the profit tax is indeed a huge increase for local self-government. As much as some MPs did not pay income tax, the mass of wages in Serbia after freezing grew from 30 to 36 this year. I'm sorry, it grew even in this year, about 10% in the first six months, in the first six months, the incomes from the salary tax, because they were frozen wages and inflation too. These are nominal categories. The profit tax is a serious source of income and the profit tax will certainly enable cities that are already large, to have one safe source of income, and for the young we have designed this solution to get bigger transfers than they already have, even under the applicable law. So that is the point, that those who are weak get a lot more transfers than today, even if the law were respected. I don't think today, in terms of how much it's actually given to the municipalities, it's given 16 billion less. If you give 16 billion back, again we suggest that the transfers be in those small municipalities bigger than they are today. It's security for them and they're not dependent on pay taxes. They have twice the benefit. They have confidence that they will have more transfers than today and other options, that they too have twice the income tax on their territory, which they cannot take advantage of today, but they may be able to do in five years. So if they get much more in the name of the transfer now, they'll be able to build infrastructure with it, and then tomorrow they'll be able to have some investor, and then they'll feel more useful than the double tax on profits they have left. They will surely feel this benefit slower than developed cities. That's why in developed cities we suggested a reduction in the transfer. So that's the idea, that we let the developed ones fight as much as possible for the employment of people as possible, and that we help the underdeveloped through transfers, and that for the period when they become developed, that income tax that stays with 80% is a motive for further employment. However, I think, and you said something that is most important here – centralism was introduced in the early 1990s. Our coalition partner only has the same name. I have seen from many of their manifestations that they have changed significantly. Here's another point, that's what I said at the beginning of this exhibit. Literally, all the MPs who were here in the O.R. and all the MP groups have been in some ruling coalition for the last 20 years, either alone in power, or in the coalition. Everyone. Centralism has been around for 20 years, and that's why we don't represent it as an attack on the current, previous government, the previous government, the problem is that the system hasn't changed. Changes in the system must happen sooner or later, if we want to make progress. We felt that we were complicit in one bad system, that this system was criticised by many, but only in words. We wanted to make a concrete proposal that consists of five laws. Why just five? Someone will say, "Why not all the others?" It would certainly be pretentious for a group of MPs to come out with a set of 50 laws. It's not impossible, but it's pretentious. So what if we had come with 50 laws in the Assembly, what would have been the reaction from others? So it should be done by the government and it's quite clear. It's government business. However, we wanted to initiate this procedure for the following reasons. Not only was financial centralism introduced in the early 1990s, for this reason that you said - fear of losing political power, but the property of 1995, as you know, was taken away by local self-government, because the same man, not to say the party, was afraid that the coalition "Together", which was then outrun, would receive local elections. He thought that if the property was taken away by cities and municipalities, it would save him from losing the republican elections. Property was seized by municipalities and cities in 1995, money was taken away, but elections were lost again. This means that it was completely wrong thinking at that moment and shortsighted. Essentially, what the colleagues in the SRS said, or I don't know if anyone else said it, it's just amazing that in Tito's day there was a higher degree of decentralisation than today. It's a fact and it's a shame, in a way, for all of us sitting here for 20 years in various coalitions. I entered politics in 2002, essentially, when we founded the G17 party. All of you, some came early, some later, and some have longer internships, like Mr. Shami, but it's a shame that in Tito's day there was a higher degree of decentralisation. At that time, local communities had their own budgets. At that time, the local communities were legal faces. Then the cities were more decentralised. Someone said, it seems to me from the LDP, they chose the presidents of the courts, etc. Why don't we just admit it? At that time, the last hydro and highways in our country were made. No single huge capital facility has been built in the last 20 years. It may be the responsibility of this government, the previous government, and all governments in the last 20 years. That's bad. It's bad because the system itself doesn't allow it to spread, on the one hand, a local initiative, and that the Republic takes care of these large capital facilities. Imagine the situation that the minister of traffic in his mandate has only been tasked with doing one single highway, not doing four years anything but building a corridor 10 highway or a highway through Western Serbia, or anyone else who puts it as a priority. It's safe to be finished, and then the new minister of traffic ends second. This way, the Ministry of Traffic is wasting 90% of its time on local roads because they're politically probative, if they're paved in a village or a street in the city, that's where you get a political point. It's been going on for 20 years. It's not a question of this moment. That's bad. We think we need that jurisdiction to return the bar, so let the people vote for whom they want to vote in municipalities and cities, depending on what those people who are in power are doing. Then the Republic can really have fewer ministers in the government. If the Republic only did its job, which is national and regional projects, there wouldn't have to be so many ministers and ministries and red tape of the central state would be smaller. So the essential transfer of 80% of the salary tax is a small problem for the Republic. Someone said -- deficit. But it's a similar situation when you want to teach someone how to swim. Maybe someone's afraid to get in the water. You push him in the water and he has to swim to survive. The point is, you can't create a decentralisation system if you're made filigreeically to be in the balance. It's got to go. Someone could've said it -- it's 80 percent, let's give it 70 percent. Someone was supposed to calculate that. We've been talking about this for two months, and no one's counting anything. Everyone thought, "These are empty straws." Now, when we came to parliament, all of a sudden it's the Fiscal Council, this-that, and it really is, in some way, I don't know what term to use, it's weird that when we asked for data from the Republic Ministry of Finance -- give us data on how many local projects the Republic's been doing today, the three ministries won't give data, they're hiding it. We've received partial data showing that 12 billion dinars are going to local projects today, but without three key ministries, so we assume that's enough. We ask the Ways of Serbia – give us information on how many rural local roads do you work? They say -- a billion and 750 million dinars. Then you see the categorization of roads by the Law of Ways and then you see that the street in Pogorevac has been declared a regional road. Malten, all the streets in the cities are regional roads. A misclassification of roads was made, that what has been locally declared regional, that Serbian Ways would do so. It's bad, regardless of who's leading the Serbian Ways today and who's going to lead them tomorrow. We suggest we start with this to edit the system. Mr. Shami, you're absolutely right, this was supposed to come to an end, that there was a consensus for decentralisation. Since consensus will never be made if you just ask political parties, it's the citizens who are asking to do this. I'll give you an example of the Property Return Act. As possible, and 16 years of property has not been returned since 1995, and we can blame whoever centralized the property management system, but from 1995 to 2011, the system has not changed. It's not Milosevic's fault. Milosevic is not in power after 2000. We need to be self-critical here. There was no critical mass of consciousness for decentralisation. Now the EU says - return the property and we'll return it. And when the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities sought – return the property, in 2005, your party then said it was not in accordance with the Constitution. Then the Constitution was brought. It is now in accordance with the Constitution, but it does not return again, or it is only returned to the Church. We actually have one problem and we have to admit it. The problem is that individuals at the top of the parties are afraid of decentralisation, because that means transfer and political power towards cities and municipalities and that's actually the point. But we actually think that this is the only way to further democratisation, to get a situation where in Serbia there will really be thousands of new people and leaders who can move something from their local community to their municipality and then in the Republic. We now have a closed system where it's impossible to penetrate from down to up unless you're listening in the game. Let's be completely open. This way of starting from fiscal decentralisation is certainly not perfect. But it's better than staying in the centralist system. It was caused by the fact that there has been a great resistance for 20 years, not for the past two years, of the decentralisation process and therefore probably has to be more radical than it would be in some circumstances that in society, or political elites, there is awareness that decentralisation is being carried out. I think all of this is very useful. You've really said the right thing, that for 20 years we've been living in centralist time, but it's a shame for all of us not to interrupt. I'm actually inviting you not only to adopt our initiative, but to give some of your initiative, yours and other parties, to move towards a decentralisation process together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56447	Right on line, MP Zoran Shami, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56448	Thank you. Mr. Dinkic, the only two of us disagree on Broz's time assessment. I forgive you, though, because you didn't have the privilege of me wearing a pioneer scarf, although there are a few more here. But I know a lot more about that time and I'm not such an enthusiastic supporter, and I don't think it was about decentralisation and centralization at the time. That's when it was something else, but I don't want to talk about it, it would be a longer story than two minutes. You said one important thing, but you skipped a conclusion. The problem here is that the current government is not inclined to negotiate. Since Serbia's decentralisation is a problem of bargaining, then it would be normal for a very broad consensus, with the use of the minds of all, different political parties between themselves to come to one real, normal, serious, rational and enforceable principle of decentralisation. It is especially important – feasible. You know, I can formally support you, but then rub my hands around the first corner if that whole story breaks, and I'm afraid it's gonna break. That the DSS is really for decentralisation, and who it wasn't, I'm going to give you a concrete example. You know we've brought a lot of the last constitution, for our opportunities, with a broad consensus. In the original proposal for a constitution proposed by the DSS, an important part of the constitution was regionalisation. We gave it up simply because we couldn't get broad and supportive enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56449	People's MP, replica time's up. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. After him is the Messenger of the people, Veroljub Arsic, and if he is not there, then the Messenger of Munir the Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56450	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a Krushevian, born in Kruševec. For me, my city is the biggest city in the world, and that's where the citizens chose me to represent their interests. Of course, I am not only a folk MP in Krusevec, but also all of those towns of Serbia where people voted and went to the elections. I've always tried to represent the interests of all these cities, especially those cities that don't have their own representatives in this home. At the beginning of the presentation, as many talk about history and historical facts, I want to point out that this debate has really been abundant in many facts, with a lot of emotions. There was an argument that was inconceivable at times. When you look at the report in today's journal, and now it's about eight hours, instead of being one of the central news in today's journals, unfortunately because of what's happening in Serbia, this is in many journals and on many sites of the seventh or eighth news, although it is a very important law and a very important initiative. However, before I begin to point out certain historical facts, since many have mentioned history and some of the times that are behind us, and this will sometimes be past time. And about this time, someone will testify based on what we did, but also what we said in this high house. I want to tell you about the town of Kruševac in 1904, because I have stenographic notes. In 1904, the year was very important in the history of the town of Kruševec. That year, a railway station was opened, a monument to Kosovo heroes, who won the international survey in Paris, the Eiffel Tower. Today everyone knows of the Eiffel Tower, while the monument to Kosovo heroes knows few people. That year, the Mayor of Kruševec himself appointed him chief of the Police Department, appointed him head of high school, with the consent of the Minister of Education. That year, the Mayor of Kruševec made it himself, along with the city of Kruševec, a lot of important decisions. The town of Kruševac was not a town, but was cut by pears, had several municipalities. One of them was the Great Shiljegovac, who is today a local community in the territory of the town of Kruševec. The township of Veliki Šilegovac recently reconstructed a highway leading from Kruševac through Šijeljovec to Ribarska Banje, had to seek 12 republican consent to do so through the territory of the local community, which is vital for people living in the territory of the local community of Velika Šijeljegovac. At the same time, when we talk about facts, my people are from Mount Ovcar and there's a village called Ducumevci. It's the most village on Mount Ovcar. In 1882, many children were born in that village, my grandfather was born. When he went to elementary school, in 1889, he was in the elementary school of 1,100 students. Last year, my niece graduated from elementary school in Dućievci and she was the last student, and after 120 years, the school was closed because there were no children there anymore. When I asked my brother where they were? He says -- they've gone all these years to Cachak, Belgrade and some other cities and some other worlds, and I've stayed to live here. Then he told me – I hear you have a debate in the Assembly about decentralisation, so I would ask you to mention this information. However, the representatives of the Kruševec City Assembly heard the same thing, so they told me that I had to give the information that the large majority of the votes of the Kruševec city councilors did not receive the support of this law. In Kruševec I am chosen to be a National MP and I have an obligation to represent those interests and those of the citizens of Kruševec who bind me to city decisions, congregation decisions and which are uncut for me, wherever I defend the interests of my city from which I come. They told me that they require certain clarifications given about this law, but before we hear those clarifications and we hear those questions that I'm going to ask about this law, I am obliged to respond to the two facts we heard in today's debate. The first is that there are rich and less rich municipalities in Serbia. I must say, I now address Serbia's citizens directly, there are no, although you have no transmission now, rich municipalities in Serbia, there are only less or more in charge, and they are all poor. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Montenegro, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina is lower than the annual budget of the city of Zurich. The city of Zurich has more money than four former Yugoslav republics, located in our immediate environment, including Serbs. Then it is normal for in Serbia, when we talk about money, to open up a rivalry, which is very disturbing for me as a citizen of Kruševec. As much as I love Kurshevac, as much as I love the valley of West Morava, as St. Bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic may be blessed the valley of West Morava, I cannot allow the tendency to form in Serbia to make me love my country, my own end, demonstrate hatred for Belgrade and envy for Belgrade. However, much better and better-quality lives my brother in Dučalovici, although there is no asphalt road to his house, than most residents living in New Belgrade, the Old Fair, who do not have the basic conditions for life. They are also citizens of Belgrade, but they are rarely seen as citizens of Belgrade by anyone in Serbia. The citizens of Belgrade are probably only those who live on Dedinj, or only those who live in Old Town, or the Sava Venac, or on Vrakar. The citizens of Belgrade are also those who live in Borca and Kukarica, who cannot enroll children in entertainment. It is bad that the law on decentralisation in this Assembly, in this assembly, is defended by apostrophe and the constant potential of local environments and the city of Belgrade. Now let's get back to those questions I heard both in Chačka and in Kruševec, and in Ariel. The Democratic Party has the best presidents of the municipalities. There are many more of them than any other political party right now. Don't think that these people don't know their jobs, just as the LDP people do, and even the DSS people, those who run their cities and municipalities know how to do that job, because that's what practice and time taught them. The Democratic Party has an excellent municipal president in Arilj Mirjana Doremovic. The Democratic Party has Jova Markovic, who is a great mayor in Uzic, has Predrag Micevic in Smederev, Goran Jesic in Indjija, Saša Paunović in Paracino, and I don't list everything so I don't forget someone, and I insult someone for not mentioning him, but these same people have given me several issues, issues, a few concerns that I have to ask. In the municipality of Arilla, for the past 50 years, all infrastructure projects have been financed exclusively from local self-income and it has been 12% of budget revenues in previous years and has exclusively served to pave the way for local roads and to create those infrastructure projects that were important for the people who live there. There are valuable people living in Ariel, raspberries, textiles, people who know how to arrange their city according to their needs. However, the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government and the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, it is prescribed that at least 50% of people who go to the referendum must vote in favour. In the time we live in, it's hard to motivate people to come out in that percentage, let alone vote for an initiative that's going to get in their budgets, home budgets. Ariel is no longer able to finance, i.e. the local projects by law on self-dependence. This law will not prevent people from organising in their local environments a declaration by citizens for self-dependence. This self-esteem when it fails, then local self-government turns to what this law opens as a possibility, and it is largely focused on profit tax instead of transfers and can cause certain problems. It is known to all of us that in the previous session of this Parliament, we have several times had the government of Serbia's initiatives to forgive the various tax duties. Who guarantees local self-government that the next day someone will not say, and you who have worked and paid regular taxes, and you who have worked, but have not regularly paid taxes, and local self-government expects those taxes as part of its income, the state of Serbia will now write those taxes off and the local self-government will be left without these revenues. In Ariel, if it is an untaxable base, if it increases from 7,310 dinars to 17,480 dinars, and very often we have had negotiations of government, employers, trade unions and employees, how much should this untaxable base be if it rises to 17,480 dinars? The municipality of Arilla will lose its income and transfer funds. I'll remind you only that in 2007, the state reduced the income tax from 14% to 12% and that this untaxable share of 5,000 dinars was introduced on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy. At the same time, it insisted that the rate be reduced from 12% to 10%, to that non-taxable part. Who guarantees us in local self-government that a firm will not come by some government that will change those taxes and make it impossible for us to get the money we now have. On the other hand, how can local self-government affect tax? Not at all, especially in pre-election years when we all agree and local self-government can't make people who earn and work to pay taxes. There are no coercion instruments, no state instruments to tell them, I'm sorry, you have to pay taxes, because that tax is funded by the citizens of this city. At the same time, not to say that in some cities, there were large economic operators who were favorably viewed by the state through the fact that in previous times they did not pay their taxes. It was simply in the interest to achieve some production, to wait for the privatisation process and to get these economic operators to survive with a certain number of workers, in order to preserve social peace. A particular dangerous threat to small environments, and in small areas where the budget relies on a large number of small business employees, business policy change can occur. In Kruševec, we had a factory called Henkel, which thanks to the monopoly position, in Serbia's economy, and thanks to the sanctions, one minute we encountered a large number of employees, and this was certainly good for our local environment, and for the economic operator, Henkel privatised "Merima" and 1,700 workers, this factory was reduced to 300 employees. We still have business entities in Kraševec and Triestenik, Paracino, which can significantly reduce the number of employees and make a clear reduction in the percentage of earnings expected. How the transfer can be distributed can also raise a number of issues, so if it is for the distribution of transfers, if a regulation on the determination and methodology of the degree of development of the region or units of local self-government is used, what does it look like in practice? The regulation says that a municipality that has far more local income will be more developed, so it will receive fewer transfers, as the original revenues are averaged per capita. It is realistic that fewer local incomes have units of local self-government that do not charge them. You have congregations of municipalities that have not arranged and updated their municipal or city administration and are unsettlingly charging those revenues. At the same time, there are very few municipalities that are very well arranged, such as Kosjerić, there was Dragan Vujadinović, our fellow MP, like Požega, like Arile and then these people collect their income well. If they get their incomes right, they'll have fewer transfers. What does that mean? Whether it punishes the state by well organising its local self-government, and whether it means that at the end of the school year a insufficient student will receive a book for excellent success and proper conduct, and puts several hundred Euros in the cover book to stimulate it to be even worse, or perhaps this phenomenon will somehow compensate for certain amendments or changes. It's not good for the state to sanction the best, the state has to stimulate the best to be even better. Furthermore, we have a regulation that says that the municipality with a larger mass of pensions per capita will have fewer transfers. I take again my city from which I come, the town of Kruševac. The town of Kruševac had an extremely developed economy during the 1980s. A lot of people got a pension right there. The city of Arilje has a well-developed economy and many people have gained pensions there. But the pension doesn't affect the local income either. How does the level of pension affect the degree of local development? It's something that's been past the work of those people who worked in those local environments. That's not good, because that income can't affect the price of kindergarten. No one can calculate that the municipality of Arilla is a developed municipality because 50m euros from raspberries are being sent there. This coincides thanks to the private initiative of these people, their entrepreneurship, but let's not put them in the same line with some other municipalities because of it. In the end, I am an MP for permanent work in the Serbian Parliament. Will the tax on my earnings, which I get here, go to Old Town or the town of Krushevac? So I live in Kruševec, but then I ask the question – what about Lapov? The Lapovo municipality made a very good factory and made a good factory thanks, among other things, to Mr Dinkic's engagement. She made a good factory, but she gave a lot to the new investor, the land, the infrastructure, the facilities. However, it has been shown that the smallest number of Lapov people have come to work in Lapovo. They're made by people from Raca, by people from the Great Plane, by Nis, by Svilintz. So, I, as a local self-government, give everything to develop jobs, but profits go to another city. So, I know that the tax on my salary will go to the town of Kruševac, I'm registered in Kruševec, I live there, but the Lapov who hired the Svilinec workers must know that his income tax will go to the Svilinac municipality, even though the Svilinac municipality may not have moved to develop an industrial zone in Lapov. In doing so, Svilajnac is a city currently experiencing a large economic boom, a large number of jobs and a large number of factories are being opened. They will come into a situation where people on the side will have to come, Panasonic comes, so many other good factories come and there will be a great demand for jobs in Svilinc, and in Svilinc the people of the region traditionally live and work abroad, there are good foreign exchange pensions. They'll probably get into the development of the Svilinite, but that money that's earned in Svilinc, it's going to go into the general ones where these workers come from. We heard the answers to the criticism of the fiscal council, and we didn't hear the answers to the IMF's criticism. The IMF also raised criticism. However, we also heard criticism from the opposition. It is something that I must be representing the ruling majority in this House to give certain answers. That's what Mr. Dinkic did. First, here in this room are representatives of all political parties who have tried themselves in one way or another in the exercise of power. Everyone had a chance to do and to make their contribution to decentralisation. But I must remind all of you, with the government of Zoran Djindjic, this is the second government to implement the most significant essential reforms of this society. Maybe someone wants to accept it, maybe they want to see it, maybe they won't see it, but I remind you again, the real fundamental reforms of our society are being implemented in this government. Starting with the reform of this parliament, for which we haven't always had a consensus, I admit it, through reforms of society that are very important. We have never enjoyed more human and civil freedoms in Serbia, no matter what anyone thinks, since 1904, even in earlier years in a multi-party time than today. You can freely criticize the government, each individual, you can feel free to feel like a free man in this country, but essential reforms are reflected in that sense of freedom. At the end of my presentation, I mean, since there was a lot of talk about the time of the '70s when we had so-called. Titov or Broz's decentralisation in Serbia, we then had Mayor Radomer Micic, a man who had done a lot as mayor on the development of the town of Kruševec, who remained in good memory of the citizens of Kruševac. In his day, the Youth Stadium was built, a water system was created, but at that time it was done by not having to ask for the consent of some republican institutions that we need today unnecessarily. There were plenty of Kruševec mayors along with Mr. Micic and how they left the seal in the town of Krusevec. Krsta Novakovic is one of them, has been mayor since 1939 until the end of the war. During his term, the town of Kruševac also had several municipalities. Infrastructure projects were also carried out in Krusevec during his term of office. We recently tried to reconstruct the landscape of the archaeological neighborhood in Kruševec. We needed so much consent from the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the Regional Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the Building Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, we needed hundreds and hundreds of permits and requests and departure for Belgrade and the demand for these consents had an important impact on the cost of the project. Then one of the people came out of the organization board and said that Prince Lazar had to look for all of this when he was building the church of Lazarica, so we would never make a medieval Kruševac or Lazarica church. It's good that we get answers to these questions I asked. It is good to respect all these criticisms given by the mayors of all Serbian cities, including permanent conferences of cities. It is good to respect all the criticisms we have heard and from the people who run their municipalities, that this law is being amended. It is good that all these criticisms are made publicly here in parliament, because this is where this law is finally passed. Once again, I underline, it is very important that we have the awareness that Serbia's decentralisation is not only an economic issue, not just a political issue, nor a question to be discussed, as much as it loves what part of Serbia. Serbia will only be integrated into the EU if each part of it develops evenly. The smooth development of these cities is not possible until these cities have their political representatives in certain institutions. The smooth development of these cities is not possible if these cities are bypassed by investors. The smooth development of these cities is not possible if there is a discretionary right in the ministries that I want to give some money to someone and I won't give it to someone. These transfers must be public, transparent and accessible to all. We had a situation in the 1990s, and even after 2000, that depending on who makes up the government and who makes the ministries give or doesn't give money to certain cities, and the municipalities were taken away from them exactly after a magnificent victory in the local elections in 1996. Many responsibilities to cities and municipalities were then taken and unfortunately to this day they were not returned. There's no essential real self-government without the right to property. When we return the right to property in local self-government, then we can say that we are far away from the staircase of Serbia's decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56451	It was used 24 minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a proposing representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56452	I'd just like to take a chance on some of these dilemmas you said to answer, on the case of your town of Kruševec. I see throughout the debate today that there is a fear that a city like Kruševec doubles transfers in relative amount, and doubles the amount that remains from the income tax. There is also fear of what it means – the cruise economy is such and the economy of other cities and municipalities, whether we will have fewer etc. I'll just give you the numbers for the Krushevac, so to see that actually, I understand the dilemma, it must exist, that's why it serves the debate, but that's actually that fear that's potentially irrelevant. Today, Kruševac receives from the Republic of the Government a transfer of 460 million dinars per year. It is true that we propose that it be reduced in the following year and will amount to 360 million dinars for Kruševac. However, today with the economy as it is, far from being strong in Kruševec, 40% of the income tax that remains today remains for Kruševec is 568 million. Already today this amount of 40% is greater than the transfer that Kruševac gets today. It's a better and bigger source of income for Kruševac than for transfers. With that amount increased to 80%, Kruševec will remain a billion and a hundred and thirty-seven million dinars of profit tax. Compared to this current 480 million transfer, it's incomparable. I don't know what to do with the tax rate on wages, even if it was reduced, it still remains much more because the amount of 80% is measured so that we have a buffer so that we can eventually make some future tax cuts, that it doesn't feel in some revenue reduction, but only that the increase in this local budget might make something smaller. Otherwise, I said that once again, I will repeat, personally, that if this law is adopted, it should go in the direction of transferring those 80% as the original income to local self-governments, the introduction of a tax administration that controls the collection of those taxes at the bar, inspections of work transferred to the locals, and the final phase would be to change the law on profit tax, to give full authority to the local government to determine the tax rate of income tax in the work that belongs to them, with one ceiling that cannot be moved to worsen business conditions for the economy, but can go as a tax on property from zero to that maximum amount. This fear, specifically for Kruševac and all other cities, is without reason, that 80% of the income tax, even the only thing that is true, apparently, seems to be the transfer of the category that is safe, and it has proved in the last three years that it is not, and it seems that the tax on earnings is not a safe category because employment growth and the drop in employment can occur. But when you determine 80% of the income tax that belongs to local self-government, it's so much so that there's essentially no such concern that some fructose can significantly disrupt these relationships. I think you've also given me another conviction to advocate decentralisation and that we have no fear of having a little problem with the Republic budget. You're telling yourself that the Mayor of Kruševac in the '70s was a successful man who didn't have to ask, among other things, for consent from the central state. Why don't we cut red tape? So, if there's no money missing from the central state, why don't they learn these unnecessary consents, cut red tape? What do these consents do if it blocks the efficiency of the system? That's what I fully agree with you. So there's safe space to take down the expenditure on the republican level, and just give cities and municipalities to breathe. I have to tell you, if someone asks if it's possible to make such a fiscal adjustment, at a time when I was a finance minister, we once made a fiscal adjustment of 100 billion dinars in 2004, so that's possible. Here we're talking about 40 billion being transferred to local self-government while trying to cut costs. As far as the IMF is concerned, let me tell you, it's a conservative institution, I've worked with them, I've contacted them in 2000. They don't care if a country develops or doesn't develop, I'm serious. They're interested, first of all, in the absence of large oscillations in that state, whether a country, I don't know, has a growth rate of 8%, 1%, they don't care, they're just against any kind of risk. Whenever there's something that smells like a risk to them, they're automatically against it. That's why they always propose measures on the revenue side, in what sense? Well, when there was a crisis with us they proposed to our government an increase in VAT, they suggested introducing an extra tax on the salary of the so-called. A crisis tax. We didn't listen to it, I think it's a good thing it wasn't listened, even though it was a dilemma in the government, as there's a dilemma now whether or not to do decentralisation. Half of the government was in favour of raising VAT and introducing that credit tax, and half of the government was against it. In the end, Croatians raised during the crisis and VAT and introduced additional wage tax crises and eventually achieved a lower growth in budget revenues. So this decision turned out to be good, which was when we disobeyed the IMF's advice. I think the IMF generally makes good recommendations, but not everything doesn't have to listen, because they're going in a line of less resistance, they're going in a line not to think about whether they're going to bring anything, they're just against the risk, but personally I think that in Serbia they have to take more risks because we're a country that can't easily go. That's what I wanted to tell you, since I'm carrying out that fear -- what if we stay with smaller transfers than today, and we have twice the salary tax, is there going to be something worse for us? It won't be worse, because mostly those who might be bad, they're smaller and they get bigger transfers, and those who already have enough now than pay taxes, they'll only have twice as much. In all these cities, I've watched these calculations, the amount of the increase in the profit tax exceeds what's lost in relation to the reduction in the transfer, and significantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56453	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56454	Just a few more clarifications. I understand these exact figures, the numerical parameters that they say, but the fact is that the town of Kruševac last year received 11m euros as an extraordinary income for projects financed from some other funds, which is the National Investment Fund, which some other revenues. That income will no longer be, and that's a fact. When we talk about the discretionary right of municipalities that they may prescribe themselves the highest tax rate, which can be limited and have a scale from - to, let's take for example a communal tax which will also be one of the significant revenues of local self-government. Do you know that Serbia's largest local utility tax is 62 million dinars? Look, a business operator pays 62 million dinars a local communal tax in a town. Is it cement, brewery, not negligible? On the other hand, I was a caterer in Kruševec once, I had a fast food restaurant. Believe it or not, with a fast food restaurant, I was paying the same communal fee that my hairdresser was paying in the other part of town, in the second zone, just like the Merima factory. The "Merima" factory did not achieve the same income as I did, but was incomparably larger and incomparably more harmful to municipal services. So this discretionary right when left to the local self-government, it can be problematic and it would be worth further harmonising with the real situation, because anything left as a discretionary right for our country can be a big problem. Also, when we talk about the IMF, I am absolutely in agreement with you and everyone who says it's an institution that's very tightly held to protection, especially their own interests, because they lend money to us, not us to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56455	The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56456	Dear Chairman, from the beginning of this session I have changed the concept so far and, listening to those who are for and those who have objections, but first I would like to congratulate you on an excellent campaign for this law. You've been campaigning for a couple of months, a school example of how to run a law campaign. They had every opportunity to react much earlier, both the professional public and those who were interested. Meanwhile, there were also mayors and presidents of the municipalities who signed this, i.e. the support of about 500,000 citizens. In the end, we also have the IMF, which reacted, reacted to a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. So this law is the essence and, in some ways, the obligation of all of us here and has raised all of Serbia to its feet to make its comment. It's a great thing we're going to get a law that can be, above all, a trigger in Serbia. I think that, in this law, an increase in taxes, or an increase of 80% of the tax on municipalities, is actually one of the best possible motivations. All that I've heard so far are a few things I can specifically give against arguments. If someone says that income taxes can vary, so if they are at some point smaller, that smaller municipalities will gain, but by becoming the basic original income of local self-government, municipalities, cities, it is a motivation for all who operate municipalities, seek the best, most professional people and direct all their attention, energy, decisions, fees to create an environment where people will be employed. What we've never had before, this is the law we get. If this law requires the adoption of a law on the return of property to local self-government, then we will get the full effect of the law that we passed the other day, the Capital Market Act. As of these days, we already have an excellent example of how Novi Sad has already published and adopted the first in Serbia to have charters of value, i.e. municipal bonds that will make citizens interested in the development of local self-government. The moment citizens realize that they are part of this development, when someone realizes that today the investor in Serbia is the most wanted goods, then they will understand the value of this law and the value of the following laws that should be literally a package. I agree with the professor when he said that in a series of laws, this law may follow in the end, but good laws have been proposed, and I think the Law on the Return of Property, the addition of the Law on Agricultural Land with the laws we adopted on construction, which establishes a legalization procedure within local self-government, creates an excellent environment where it begins to live, that the property tax law works. So far, anyone who had not arranged their tax administration at the local level could have taxed on the property on a narrow circle of users to use, i.e. to burden the narrow circle of businessmen and owners of family homes. By expanding, by introducing cadastres, by expanding the list of households, by registering business facilities, the list of users, i.e. the property taxpayer. When a man takes the opportunity to make use of the legalization process of property tax with an extended list, of motivation and of drivers to create conditions for the employment of people, by increasing the number of employees at the level of each local self-government, one circle is created in which each other is encouraged to participate in creating an excellent environment at local level. If someone has objections to the communal tax, or the company, then local self-government determines it. Local self-government has jurisdiction over that. In this way, if it encourages employment, it makes sense to reduce certain fees to create an environment in which businesses feel far better than before. What can be mentioned as a problem of showing up in which I can only quote a colleague of Meh Omerovic, who says if you take, you can repent or if you leave, you can repent, is in municipalities that have a job structure according to their area or to their geographical structural location where it is. In particular, let's say the Shadow. Most of the population deals with agriculture. How these people and how local self-government makes it easier, to make it possible, to help be someone who's registered, to pay taxes, to contribute. Here by habit, by origin, by land, in the mountainous mountainous area where there is also a series of such municipalities in Serbia, there is somewhere that this law can do one... By transferring some things to regulation, there is no part of the motivation in which people who operate the community are going to start these people. Perhaps, instead of these four categories of underdeveloped municipalities, seven categories are to be made, in which the elements of municipalities that have some of their specialities are given more precisely. You have a community where one factory can be a monopoliest, but in that city, it's the cornerstone of development. Koseric has a cement shop, and that's enough for them. There are about 95-96% employees. Fiat is now in Kragujevac, Nis whose expansion he started, the Svilian, too. There are companies that literally in Serbia have a monopoly on the very structure of functioning as it is organised, so it may be somewhere on those seven levels of municipalities, where however, the linearity would be a little lessened somewhere. For Novi Pazar, where I come from, tomorrow or in the future someone can say that I voted for good or for bad law just like you, Mr Dinkic, and all the MPs here who are of best intention want us to create an environment for our citizens where, above all, every man in Serbia would bring himself to be part of the city government, administrations and projects that make a better life in a city. This law makes part of the obligation of local self-government, the manager, to create an environment in which people will have greater reasons to be employed, businessmen to keep their money at a local level, or to look for a better chance somewhere in this palette of the law. It's a great law and the sooner it should be the law on the election of mayors, the president of municipalities, right, because it's a greater responsibility, because people will choose their associates and professional and best and they can make this law take full effect. In 2011, there were funds allocated for undeveloped municipalities both for Pazar and for Sjenica and for Tutin and for Pribo and for Prijepolje. Subsidies are scheduled to employ about 2,300 people, of which 930 people are employed for the first three months. The joint funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and local self-government with their 60% participation are about 77 billion apart, providing a new incentive for businessmen in the Sandzak area. I'd just like to draw more attention, if anyone else is watching this, that everyone that we've been taking part in today's debate, both the opposition and those who have asked for an objection in this law, is out of the desire for this law to be made full sense, full of effect, and to start all actors at both national and local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56457	12 minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. After that, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56458	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Dinkich, may I address you as the legislator of this law? A few hours ago, our authorised representative, Mr. Zoran Krasic, spoke on a direct TV broadcast, but I hope that sometime tonight around two, half-three, when this is delayed on the second RTS programme, someone will follow again, and then say that I am under the impression that your role in the political system today and as the legislator of this law and president of this new party, demascated Mr. Krasic. Otherwise, this was a great opportunity in the heat of that debate that lasted two, three hours, to tell everyone about each other and what Mr Krasic said – you're absolutely all right and you're just the generator of wearing that dirty political laundry, because you admitted that you were in a bad society, or that they didn't want to respect what you asked of them. On the other hand, you admitted that you were wrong when you promised citizens and free action, which wasn't realised and everything you promised, as you said earlier, since 2002, you've been in politics. Now it remains only for Serbian citizens to see that the only ones in Serbia since the adoption of this basic Law on the financing of local self-government, so if you want the story of decentralisation, since 1990-1991, only Serbian radicals have been right. Mr Dinkic, in a country like today, Serbia that is over-indebted, which has a terrible mortality rate relative to birth, in which it was conducted under Broz's communist regime, and you have continued the 2000-year record rule on today, deagrarization of Serbia, and so we have those examples of colleagues Milivojevic, and I can direct you 20 villages where primary schools have been abolished and where we can see old people from over 70 years of age on tractors. Now you want to present this pure political project of yours. This is not a new economic impulse of the local self-government unit, and it is your right, it is one campaign that you run as a rescue solution for municipalities and cities in Serbia. First of all, none of us had any illusions and we talked about it in the first days of your anger and deviation from the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, resigning, shifting, etc. that you, these newly-roasted Europeans, tycoon mercenaries, and the wolf, will place you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No, you've put yourself in a good position right now and you're trying to push this project on one side and it's dangerous. Before I move on to this second part of what my fellow Serbian radicals have been talking about today and how this existing Law on the financing of local self-government is not being implemented as much as the state owes for the last three years to cities and municipalities, and I will talk about the town of Kragujevac where I live and where I was born. I'll tell you that this project is dangerous. Perhaps you were not told by Mr. Milenić, I am sorry that Mr. Veroljub Stevanović, the mayor of Kragujevac, who left the meeting today and went to the game Radnički – BASK and directly joined the SOS channel. This is due to the fact that this has been taken, in a negative sense, by the political maha, not only through the creation of stories about it and propaganda that has been done in a senseless manner, first of all, through the TV Kragujevac and through the assembly pay phone in the City of Kragujevac, that it will be much better to live through this decentralisation project, as you propose, but also because of the fact that a single passion is being created, not to say the hatred of the citizens of Kragujevac, as well as other towns of Serbia where you have conducted this action, collected a petition for signatures against Belgrade, our capital. Kragujevac is the first Serbian capital in recent Serbian history. Like all Serbs, in Šumadia, people have always been broadhearted, good hosts and generous to welcome everyone into the house. Mr Dinkic, I'm afraid now, given this enormous passion for Belgrade, and you are a Beogradian man, you live here, colleague Simo Vukovic, colleague Ivanji, right? Is it in your best interest that the Kragujevci hate Belgraders? You created such an atmosphere. At the last session of the City of Kragujevac Assembly, which was 10 days ago, your colleague from G17, from the "For the Forest and the Regions" coalition, what do you now call yourself, in the context of some story asked – yes, you don't really like Belgrade and you don't like to go there, you don't like anything that happens there? They've positively nodded my head. You know, we're going to create a situation where children who grow up in these cities, like they're being told this story -- Belgrade is the center of everything, and it buys all the money, and then tomorrow they're going to think about children in Surdulica, Leskovac, where there's an increased political intense charge, your story and the possibility of promoting it. Secondly, I'll go back to the part where you said your party was only 11, as the president of the municipalities or mayors in Serbia said. I can tell you that, and that's a lot, given the fact that they've shown themselves very badly. I'll start with Ratche. In Raca, by defecting Ms. Dragane, I don't know her last name, from Velimir Ilic's party and acceptance into your wing, you found one situation as you found it. But from the moment she crossed over to your party, she continued infamously to rule that, unfortunately, undeveloped, since it was an agrarian environment and Broz's communists, we were always, you misunderstood because we said we compared time to Broz's decentralisation, because Serbian radicals were the greatest opponents of Joseph Broz's politics. You know that under the Communist regime of Broz, our president, Dr. Seselj, has been incarcerated both in Sarajevo and in the earthly dungeon. When you're talking, say, about Ratche and the fact that your party now has power over the president of the municipality, that you're responsible for opening the Jurassic Company, there's black without any white. That main street, Mr. Dinkic, which you personally promised to reconstruct in November of the month, stands as it stands today. So on this day, it's so unearthed. On the other hand, at least Jura Company employs citizens from the Rač municipality. Under a strange set of circumstances from private ownership, the flag of the electric system has turned into state hands. Then you gave it to the Koreans. They receive donations from the state - three and a half thousand euros per employee, and there can be employed, according to Racan, only one who is with your new staff, the feather of your party, Madam President. There's only one-third of the Racans, and the rest are people on the side. Not only that, but every possibility has been excluded, which is contrary to the Labour Act for people to use sick leave, to ask for some day off and get fired immediately. Otherwise, for information, perhaps you didn't know Mr. Novakovic, all the employees at Juri signed petitions for your five laws. It's a strange circumstance. See, it's a coincidence -- whether because they love it or were forced to do it, think about it a little bit. On the other hand, that municipality currently has 70 million debts. Not only that, but no new transfers, because the existing law is not respected, as Mr Krasic told you today, the state owes a great deal to cities and municipalities in Serbia, and only this application would make it amazing. You know, when you pour it from hollow to empty, in the total mass of your third-grader's exchange on income tax paid towards the employee's residence, please explain to me – where are these new jobs? What tax on earnings you expect in this year 2011, which in 2012 is an increasing number of unemployed in Serbia. The citizens of Kragujevac managed to sign the Memorandum first in 2008 and later the Treaty with the Italian "Fiyat" that it would be there, as Mr Stevanovic promised, 10,000 new jobs. That's not gonna happen. The century fraud called "Fiat" and the epilogue of this is a credit for ironing the fiasco "Fiat" regime, which is Boris Tadic's regime, which was also attended by Minister Mr. Ciric, a new loan signed several days ago, an arrangement for the 500m-euro plant, and the state of Serbia, which will come to us on the agenda, Mr. Odalovic, soon, because the Serbian government passed, is guaranteed 200m euros. Imagine the situation now. You promised expansion, you promised to export that new Fiata model through a free trade agreement to the Russian market. And it's not true that you didn't talk about it. That's what Tadic and Djelic said on May 6th at Djurdevdan in 2008, ahead of the end of the campaign in Kragujevac. Today we have a situation that the state of Serbia, the majority owner, the Italian Fiat company is practically funding, as the state has invested 281 million so far and the Fiat only has not 100m euros and has a property of 66%. And not only that, but no one has answered us to this day whether that is, that 280 million is the highest amount, or even the state has invested beyond that without us knowing it. A journalist researcher, the SRS, tried to get that response from the government of the Republic of Serbia, but we did not get that information. As far as the town of Kragujevac is concerned, he is generously, since Stevanovic believed Dinkic, Djelic, Markione and all those who came pompously with the project, to explain to Mr Poturk because he thinks there really is an expansion of production, the city has given 67 hectares of land, with the obligation to provide another 70. The state gave subsidies to newly employed workers, as well as subsidies to the sale of Fiat cars, and the Italians gave barely 100 million. What's that? It's a hoax. It's a fraud. This is how you further debted the budget of the Republic of Serbia and you have the liquid liquidity at stake, and you promised the citizens that all of this would be generously given by the Italian partners. Since Mr Dinkic came out but there are you, Mrs Grubjesic, to see what a sad picture of the town of Kragujevac is. If you don't think this is some radical data, I'll read you a few items, you see how much this city is in debt, how much the state doesn't care about Kragujevac now, by this law, how much it doesn't pay off the transfer funds, how it is, and otherwise, the government is unable to solve it in another way, how the city that has nearly 200 million inhabitants, which has huge resources and potentials, is indebted. I will end up with this story about the city I live in, because this is the last final account report of the 2010 budget that we adopted last year and to see what it looks like now: The property tax, it means the picture and the cut of the state of the average Serbian population and how many people are poor and poor and don't have to give to the state, the property tax instead of the planned 861 million and 133 000 was realised with only 174 million and 466 thousand, or 20.26% in 2010. Tell me, doesn't that show how many citizens are poor and how little they don't have to give to the state? And yet they're used to it being the basic thing to do, to pay and to preserve at least that property they have, not to pay these enormous interest rates that they later receive. Inheritance tax, let's say it's partially realised. Communal taxes on advertising. It's so-called. small economy and all those who need to advertise their companies in any way – realisation by just 49.26%. The average income rate for the town of Kragujevac was only 57.70% last year. Mr. Novakovic, that's rebalancing. So this is the final budget bill. Neither the rebalancing could iron it as they did, a colleague of Dimitrijevic, in Leskovac and in some other cities will talk about it. Isn't that enough message for the citizens that what you are saying and promoting Mladjan Dinkic and Stevanovic and your new party – is a clear deception of the Serbian citizens. Because current and mandatory transfers, those prescribed by the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government by the State or the Republic Government do not arrive to the citizens or arrive to cities and municipalities as the law requires. So what do we have to expect, and what kind of story is this, and what kind of illustrious message is this? If you wanted to be Robin Hood and give such generously undeveloped cities and municipalities, and yet again, a dangerous project of hatred for Belgrade that you, or your party across Serbia, is very pronounced in Kragujevac, then you should have hit Miskovic, Beka, the rest of the tycoons, and picked them up nicely, as she told them and kept telling the citizens of the SRS. But you can't, because they are close to you, or Tadic's regime, such as Nikolic and Vukic's financials. And no one can mention them, and no one will say that they are businessmen and that they are taking from citizens and that they are getting land complexes, as Miskovic got in Kragujevac, in the city centre of the location for Delta Park, and he paid the city some poor money. It is, Mr. Novakovic, because you are now a set of circumstances from that party which is the chairman and you are the chairman, since Mr. Dinkic does not have a sad picture and the reality of a big city. What, then, is there a less developed community to talk about? Or this one, like Ratche, who was abandoned by the DS, who you've been robbing and stealing for years and now the same thing by G 17 when the president, the one who defected, is your president of the municipality. Therefore, the conclusion is clear. We have put this in the amendment and Mr Krasic has made it clear – that criminal charges are filed against the finance minister if at the end of the current year no transfer obligations are met, or whatever the Republic owes to cities and municipalities. This way - turkey dots don't work. What Mr Krasic says – hang that cat on the tail. You have your story ahead of the elections, but make sure the citizens don't get away with it because they're looking for a job, looking for much bigger pensions, as you promised, looking for salaries, looking for jobs for their children, asking for social benefits, and asking for no one to blackmail them, and not to sign such petitions as was the case in "Jura" Raca.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56459	The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Steva-ovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Grubjesic, since you are the first man in this team to propose this, if the one who doesn't show up, well, he will hear what he has to say. If he doesn't show up, you name him my group of MPs and give him greetings and tell him that we appreciate his tendency to take risks. But, Mrs Grubjesic, we would be happy in Serbia that your Mr. Boss is risking his own expense, not the cost of budget bonds in the Republic of Serbia. His 10-year risk in Serbia costs us all a lot. What makes us challenge your credibility to suggest something like this is, in fact, in the whole story. The second thing I want to point out or pass on to him is that we appreciate his nostalgia for Broz's decentralisation, but the SRS today, Broza and his decentralisation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we don't know what the connection between Broz's decentralisation is with what you suggested? Speaking in the context of Broz's decentralisation, Mr Dinkic tells us that police and court presidents were elected. What are we discussing today, Mrs Grubeshic? Today, we are discussing the money that you are allegedly going to, as Ms. Jovanovic said, Robinhudski would provide for local self-government. In this context, I will quote your very own boss, who is not here, who only a few months ago, as Deputy Prime Minister, said the following - if we want to reform, we cannot act in part. We must give the locale more money and property at the same time, on one hand, and more authority, on the other hand. That's what your very good boss said a few months ago. What are you offering local self-government under this law today besides money? Although we don't have a single guarantee that they'll get that money, because as a government, you stole local self-government and didn't give them transfers. Give them nothing but one hope and one carrot in the evening of the election. Now, who's painting who here, if I may put it that way? What's this about? What we're talking about today, what we're talking about here, is an eloquent budget rebalancing and nothing else. Or maybe it's for the budget rebalancing that's waiting for us. What decentralisation is black? From the political decentralisation of jurisdiction, etc., etc. The symbol of fiscal and political decentralisation in Serbia is Mladjan Dinkic, and if he has promoted something in the last 10 years, he has promoted it, but it was appropriate for him then because he has inherited the state budget. Now that he's no longer in government, he's going to defend local self-government. Be careful what he says - I cheer the Republic to lose. Why didn't he cheer while he was Deputy Prime Minister? Why didn't he cheer the republic to lose? How does Mr. Dinkic care about local self-government? He made all this up marketingly well. This is a political project that should provide him with a presence in this parliament after the next elections. And it's very clear to the citizens. What especially, Mrs Grubjesic, has kind of irritated me, and what really deserves the answer is that you said in an undetected way earlier that we who are not going to support this law care about our irresponsibility to citizens in the municipalities from which we come. Now such lessons are given to us by you who have shown complete love and responsibility to Serbia and citizens by sharing free actions, fostering Bojan Krist. So then, through a comprehensive reform of the rules, you showed love for the citizens, so through the agencies where you received the salaries you received, you showed concern for local self-government and that we do not list beyond the affairs of one, the other, the third. So out of love for local self-government from the Development Fund, you funded your annual vacations to your political friends, listeners, etc. And you're burdening us to take care of our citizens because we're not going to support some of your laws. Here today, indeed, Mr Dinkic has mentioned hundreds of times that he is removing some dilemmas. There is a dilemma here today – who promotes greater political irresponsibility? Those who suggested this, or those who would contrary to their beliefs for this vote. Today in this House your coalition partners almost have a more extreme relationship with this law in a negative context than we do with radicals, but they won't tell you. They're waiting for some signature, so peace in the house keeps you quiet. They don't want to vote, but the gentleman from Andric's wedding will raise his hand and finish the job. That way the state can't be run. What's the problem here? That Mr Dinkic is telling us after 10 years of authorities about the need to change the system? That he's telling us that the system isn't good? Who's the creator of that system? Who was the backbone of that system? The essence, the backbone of this country in the last 10 years, has been controlled by the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Are his sincere motives to change Serbia, to change the system? No, motives are purely political and pre-election. And that's what needs to be said and that's the message the public needs to understand and know. This is the same trick as the action trick, except this time the public is not being deceived because of Boris Tadic but because of, I said just before, a new mandate for the G17 parliamentary group in this parliament. And that's the whole story. It could be immunity. It doesn't matter. It goes with each other. We understand each other, Mr. Krassic. I repeat, we really dispute the credibility of the man who promotes this law, his political credibility. Because today in Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic is no longer measured by what he says, all measuring him according to his political legacy, along with your coalition partners. 'What is the legacy of his ten-year management of Serbia and regional development in Serbia, I will show several examples of the MPs present to you and, of course, I will not leave the authority of local self-government. I will show you a few examples of the MPs present and, of course, I will not step out of the jurisdiction of local self-government. So, this exclusively refers to those things that local self-government has, in Serbia for the last 10 years, really had to do and some Mr Dinkic, since here he comes, let him say, where the awareness of the importance of local self-government has been with him for 10 years and what has happened to him, and it has woken up, rather than 10 years after your government and regional development, the competences of local self-government have been exercised that 6 percent of the waste water in Serbia are being processed, that 35 percent of the population in Serbia has been channelled, that 50 percent of the losses on the local self-government in Serbia today have, that millions of cubic waters are being poured directly into water streams. These are official data, data from the ministry and ministers who sat with Mr Dinkic in the government. But now the story doesn't end at the local level, because you now want to root for local self-government, and more than the Republic, and it should be said that through the republican institutions you've treated this problem, so let's just ask your vice president, Mrs Kalanovic, since you've inherited a republican budget through the NIP and funded a variety of projects at the local level, but not because you understood the need for sustainable development of local self-government, but because you've also funded your pre-election activities. Your high-ranking NIP vice president approves his local companies of the project to do a sewerage in one village, so in the other village, he does a sewerage, and three times he can't secure the technical reception of that same sewerage, because he's done the opposite of the project, to install the gentleman who performed the work, and then the sewerage comes down into the riverbed, so that river passes through that village, and goes through the fields where people deal with agriculture, and we come to the Assembly and listen to the defendants of such butchers around Serbia, as they tell us on behalf of the development of local self-government and allegedly their understanding of the need for funding of local self-government, and the level of services that local self-government provide. Before we hear how we will first give money to local self-government, and in the next steps we will develop institutions, capacities and control. It's like getting wheels, and in two years, you'll get a car to drive. This is your concept of local financing of local self-government and your recognition of the importance and meaning of local self-government today in Serbia. Here you are, Mr. Dinkic, another liquid of your ten-year authority. This is a decision on the local municipal fees of a municipality that is currently in effect. For your sake, not only your own, but I will now read to you about what local self-governments on the one hand were forced to do, and what they did on the other hand from the whim. You have local communal taxes, which, I repeat, are in force and which for the production of refreshing drinks, mineral waters and other bottled waters are 8 million and 300,000 dinars. That, Mr. Dinkich, is in effect. Do you know why? Because the government you've been sitting in, 11 years after your government came to power, is trying to determine the limit on how many local municipal taxes local self-government will make. Here with these tariff numbers you can freely write next to the performance code and what is the factory or what is the company. That's exactly what you knew. Then you have, say, cutting and woodworking, a million-and-a-half. You have a local utility tax of seven million and 315 grand. Do you know why? For non-metals, minerals, for living steel 2 million and 600. Now there's one, say, local utility tax, Mr. Dinkic, for the production of electric and electronic equipment for motor vehicles. Do you know how big it is? A million and 800, for a factory that has been blocked for months, whose 200 strikers, or 100 and some of the workers, have been on strike for a year and your privatisation agency has been there in inspection surveillance, revealing problems, canceling the privatisation contract, and your government has ordered that the solution to the break-up of privatisation be annulled. You will now, as responsible, charge a million and 800 thousand utility fees as the original income of local self-government to that failed company. Mr. Dinkich, what kind of seriousness do you want to give this story? You're referring to a permanent conference of cities. This is the last page of some of their sage about the proposed measures that should be done. You know what they're suggesting? They're not just proposing to you, they're proposing to everyone in the Serbian Parliament to open a debate on 22 laws. You're calling because you decided to change things and passed a ten-member law. They suggest we change 22 laws, etc. I'll just call for a lack of time, another example which is the manifestation of the top political centralism that you've promoted. That's what you promoted when you were Minister of Finance. Tell me, Mr. Dinkic, how much money did you pay back to local self-government on behalf of the compensation for the use of natural resources or resources from the territory of the local self-government unit? Do you know what kind of regulations you wrote back then, as finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Each regulation ends with a member or a sentence – the funds collected by this basis become the income of the Republic budget or the budget of the AP Vojvodina. At the same time, you received proposals from the radical presidents of the municipalities to return some of these funds to local self-government and to make it exclusively dedicated, to use the money on this basis of the collected water supply, the sewerage, the sanitary dumps, the transfer of stations, the water treatment plant, what are the local self-government's responsibilities. So you got smart suggestions five, six and seven years ago. This is why the SRS is based on its thesis and findings – you don't care about local self-government, you need a model of political promotion for new elections and immunity, as colleagues say. I'll finish my story, Mr. Dinkic, with one sentence only. What Serbia needs to clear up and cross in the next election is the policy that you have been promoting over the past 10 years, and this is a chance to establish in Serbia the responsibility and management that will show, the responsibility and management of national conscious and responsible people who will show that with this amount of all kinds of resources, the position of local self-government can be greatly improved and, of course, the level of services that local self-government provides and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56461	The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although the official elections have not yet been called for a pre-election campaign is in progress, representatives of the authorities go there and here and try to get themselves votes. For many pre-election campaigns, they have not stopped because they are aware of their powers to channel the money of all of us taxpayers in a way that is exclusively in the interest of achieving their party goals. Here, today and in the National Assembly, we have a purely promotional activity of representatives of the governing structure, though, with rather uncoordinated attitudes, but in one form the bill is referred to the assembly procedure and today we are discussing this proposal, and what it will look like in the end is the rest we see. I am saying this because the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government is presented as a way to seriously start implementing financial decentralisation. It was in the form that we could read came from a political party that recognised its interest in the story, and was put on the agenda by emergency procedure and supported by the signatures and other parties of the ruling structure. We received a session session Thursday, and on Sunday we had the opportunity to hear personally from the President of the Republic that decentralisation is one of the most important issues for Serbia and that it must not be politically instrumentalised and that these ad hoc political actions related to decentralisation that take place ahead of the elections must not lead to loss of sight of the essence of decentralisation. It's such an obvious thing, something that's clear to everyone and it would really be inappropriate one story that should attract voters in elections not to call the right name. This is the story of the election, and the arguments for this SRS claim are next. It is proposed that the law be adopted by emergency procedure because it is necessary to allow the poor units of local self-government to achieve an increase in their local budgets, which will give them the chance to implement their own local priorities much faster and more efficiently, thus achieving the goal, which is financial decentralisation. Now one question is raised – why wasn't this done three years ago, when this government was formed? It has been mentioned many times today that we were all witnesses together that the Law on the financing of local self-government was rudely violated, first in April 2009, during the first budget rebalancing for 2009, and then the 2010 Budget Law. I'm not going to quote Article 13th century 1st and 2nd now. I think we'll all remember them well because local self-government has significantly reduced resources to these very provisions of this plan. Since I live in Leskovec, I will present in numbers what a reduction in funds looked like, for example. in Leskovac. In the first instance, 145,857,000 were reduced, and during the second rebalancing, there was a slight change and the year was completed by 144,641,000 dinars less than the Republic. It's a percent reduction of 20.66%. This information refers to the amount of the total transfer, not only non-intentional. In 2010, the amount of non-intentional transfer remained at the same level as in 2009. An increase in dedicated transfers is observed. It's a story of the great crisis of the Republic for Leskovac, and the truth is that a lot has been issued to all local self-governments, and then reportedly given to individual local self-governments for certain projects, but only for certain ones. It came in 2011 pre-election, and it envisions returning 23.8% of transfers to cities and municipalities. Fellow Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, you who will be watching this video of our debate tonight at about three o'clock tonight, you know what would be funny if it wasn't sad? When the decision on the final budget of the town of Leskovec for 2010 was reached at the adoption in the section - revenues based on transfers from other levels of government, when a layman looks at the percentage of the achievements, he would say that Leskovac received a far higher percentage than planned. This looks like this: non-purpose transfers - 100%; other current transfers - rates 51.4%; current dedicated in the narrow sense of the Republic are taxes of cities 90%, but in money, the percentage presented in the final account as reaching 151.4% is 10 million 419 thousand and 577. It is good to make a comparison between the amount I cited as denied in 2009 and 2010. Two times 144.6 million, and that's the amount compared to the amount of 10.4 million, which is shown as 151.4%. In addition to reducing transfers to local self-government, another measure to overcome the economic crisis was passed by the Law on the reduction of the number of employees in the state, local administration. It is then threatened that local self-governments that do not bring the number of employees to the prescribed level will receive a penalty that will be viewed as being denied transfers from the Republic. At that time, many people lost their jobs in the middle of an economic crisis. For the absurd to be greater, on the other hand, we had the uninterrupted establishment of various republican agencies, commissions, councils. No session of the National Assembly at that time could pass without the establishment of a para-state organ and no one was missing hair from the head. Penalties were intended only for local self-government. In making all decisions, the government has been involved in proposing today's amendments to the laws with its ministers and MPs in the National Assembly. This new and old government, in March this year, transformed. During the transformation, the NIP ministry was abolished, probably because it was realized to serve only one political party, to decide which projects money will be invested in. Giving someone so much power is not a small thing, because it has often been said that voices in certain environments, especially rural ones, are obtained by building an infrastructure facility and it is presented exclusively as the merit of the one whose hands had the power to decide where to channel funds from the NIP. Now that the party that's the legislator of the law we're talking about tonight is no longer holding in its hands the power to decide who the funds will go to for a project, it's finding a new way to get votes. Therefore, the proposer notes that the republic no longer needs to finance projects of local character. While the NIP was in their hands, they acted differently. We have even heard from the promoters that there has been discrimination on the political line. The fact is, not one inch of the ceiling could turn without G 17 plus consent. You can see how much pain you're in that it's not in your hands anymore. For the SRS, this is a reminder of the story of the 1,000-euro free stock. That story was trusted by a lot of disreputed citizens. Some could hardly wait for the day of the election because of that story, almost running away to vote, because they thought that a four-member family would be able to buy a car, so a member of the family would be able to take a taxi ride or be able to buy a kiosk and thus provide a single salary to feed the family. There was nothing of it. If I am wrong, let anyone in Serbia tell me that they have received a thousand euros from the action. And that story was regulated by the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, published in Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, number 123/07. That is why we in the SRS have an obligation to speak openly to the citizens of Serbia what is actually hidden behind the list of good wishes written in the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government. A new pre-election trick is hidden, something to apply as elections pass, or some other law will find a way not to apply. The same story as the story of a thousand euros of free shares. We in the U.S.S. don't seem to be surprised at the reaction of a proposing representative when someone tells them about this. Also, this is a story that should attract local leaders to hold votes in the elections. It's a target group. We've heard from the promoters that people at the bar don't have to vote for the same structures as at the republican level. Just three years ago, after the formation of this government, a completely different story was told and terrible pressures were made on one coalition partner to make a coalition from the republican level a transfiguration of local government structures. It would be good to remember how many coalitions in Serbia have changed at the site after these pressures. Nepati entire Serbia from collective amnesia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56463	Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56464	Mr. Vice President, throughout history, we have been well-known, at least for the last 20 years, and especially for the last ten years, that we were like Serbia's country that was making the most laws in the world for the shortest time. When you analyze what laws they are, you will evaluate and determine that these are bad laws and laws that are not applicable. Hundreds of laws passed by the Serbian Parliament from 2000 to today have experienced changes and additions before they were to be applied. I would not repeat those facts presented by the MPs of the SRS, Mr Krasic and others, in order not to spread the story here. Here is the question – why did the current government not apply the laws that are in force? SRS lawmakers have provided inconclusive evidence that the Serbian government did not give local self-government transfers even though it had an obligation under the law. This is in support of the fact that this law too will not be applied and will not be realised, above all, of general interest, and this general interest is the general interest of citizens living in the territories of local self-government. The question arises – who manages these financial and fiscal assets at the place? These are the people who, by playing the case in a revolutionary way, came to power in 2000 without some having had days of work. They got the office, or the president of the municipality, or the mayor, or the minister, or the director of a public firm, and not to mention. Did someone control them? They weren't controlled by anyone. I think it is also known to Mr Dinkic, that we did not have in the government a few years ago 12 budgetary inspectors, and that we have 7,500 thousand taxpayers who charge taxes, that the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that goes down to the city level to the municipality, for years and years has not been submitted, nor has the state auditor, as the state audit institution controlled the consumption and purpose of these funds. We barely found Mr. Sretenovic here on the floor in one room with four officials in 2007, and we fought because the SRS asked to ask a question about what happened to the state auditor. Who's going to control the fiscal obligations? Budget users are 8,500, no one controls them. They control themselves. In that control, as they control themselves, I'll remind you that one director, a driver by profession, spent in six months as a director of a public enterprise in one municipality, 4.5 million on kevapee, in cafes. Who's in control? In a man who is also from one party, there are no such people present, found recently 228,000 euros in the safe. So, without radical changes in the system for free is to pass laws. As Ante Fijamengo said - this is a question of discussion for you. The previous question is – are personnel, are people who will have state funds and taxpayers' money. All you see is the situation in Panchev. Many in this Serbia say they will now come from the EU business partners, how Serbia will flourish, are eager to come. I must inform you, and some Serbian citizens know that no one has come to Panchevo except that a Russian partner has come and bought a refinery that is now working successfully and we have experienced less pollution in the city. So you can have the law, but if it is not respected, and the laws are not respected, you heard the MPs of the SRS, Mr Dinkic, that transfers are not directed from the republican budget towards local self-government. Who can guarantee that they will be executed in the coming period if the government adopts a regulation? As you can see, Serbia is free of laws. The government of the Republic of Serbia rules, and in public companies laws are passed, not applying the laws of the Republic, laying down regulations and sublaws, directors of public, municipal enterprises, barbecues and fires, and raise the price of municipal services as they will. Feudalization. In one municipality you have three, four parties in power. Each gets its own feed. She's going to take the Construction Directorate, take the Green, take the hygiene, take the other branch and the other public enterprise, and they're all settled. What Mr. Krasic says, these are complex brothers. Mr Dinkic, as your proposal will pass, we will see, but Serbian citizens must know that they no longer have confidence, which those who are due to implement tomorrow do not implement them. You said during the previous presentation, and for 10 years you have been in the government – sublegal acts are passed as anyone will, which the minister wills. Now it's a miracle why this government doesn't lift those sublegal acts that local self-government doesn't have to bother for years to get consent from a republican institution, for example, the Republic Property Directorate or the Ministry where you or some other ministry were in. They've been waiting for years for this agreement. That should be lifted. So these laws need to be amended, abolished, but the state must have jurisdiction. Mr. Dinkich, this is a bit of a suspicious thing. He's a little under suspicion in what circumstances and when all this seems to be happening. Now we promise the citizens there'll be a transfer. There's no transfer. There's no sewers in Panchev. The prices of utility services are up to heaven. There's no rainwater. Only in the town that Rafineri and Petrochemia are doing, as the largest exporters in Serbia. But the government takes money from Petrochemy. Last year, there were 280m euros in exports and Panchev had nothing left. This is how the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Mr. Tadic conduct politics when it comes to local self-government, cities, municipalities and the health situation. I'm not saying go to a panic hospital and see if it's a barn. Feel free to say, "The barn." You can't go in there. So those projects are a problem. Projects must be made, but measures must be taken as soon as possible to implement them. We shall see what will happen. But I don't have much trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-15-0.u56465	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. There's no sign of word in the electronic system. Is there someone who hasn't used his right in Article 96? The Rules of Procedure might want a word? (No) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. This concludes today's work. Continuing Tuesday, 21 June 2011, at 10.00 hours is a debate in detail on the proposed bill. Thank you for your cooperation. Rest, gather your strength, and I hope we'll be more efficient and faster.
