ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60598	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before you today the proposal for a law on the return of seized property and compensation. By adopting this law, Serbia will correct one historic injustice. It's not the only injustice that was done during the tumultuous and often tragic 20th century in our country, but one of those injustices that await resolution. Through the adoption of this law, Serbia will be recognised as a modern state that respects private property, and private property is an important part of human rights. This will strengthen legal certainty in our country and contribute to attracting investment. It is finally an important condition for obtaining EU candidate status. Three key principles led us to make this law. First, correct the injustice that has been done to many families for ideological reasons since World War II. Second, do not make new injustices by respecting the legally acquired property of today’s owners over the property sought. Third, to bring the law into line with the available property and financial resources of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of effective implementation of the law without jeopardising the financial stability of the entire nation. We were inspired by other experiences, especially former Yugoslav republics. It is the same historical and political root, often the same and the consequences, by identifying all those specificities of the Republic of Serbia. The important difference is that this law comes literally 11 years after the start of the transition and that is not a positive circumstance for either of these governments that were present during those periods. We consulted during a broad public debate, which began on July 29th, when this draft law was also set, its first version on the government's website of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, primarily representatives of former owners, as well as representatives of local self-government, legal and economic experts. We were in the field, from Smederev, Valjev, Nis, via Novi Sad and Belgrade. We've received hundreds of performances. The most important of them are still on the Internet presentation of the Ministry of Finance today. The model we're proposing here is simply the one who gave the best results, not in some ideal world. I'm going to talk a little later about certain ideas that seem to be attractive but, basically, in reality, inconclusive, as our colleagues have told us for 20 years that they've been implementing similar laws. The object of the return is all the property that was seized after World War II. I underline that it is property that includes, in addition to real estate, businesses and movables, which is not the case in many other laws dealing with this topic in other countries, all the way to construction and agricultural land. Interested citizens, according to some estimates that cannot be completely safe, but one indication is the record made by the 2006 law, it has shown that it is 150 000 families, will have two years, since the entry into force of this law and afterwards the publication of a public call to be made by the Agency for Restitution, to submit their demands. Foreign members of the occupation forces will not have the right to return property, and rehabilitated persons under the existing Rehabilitation Act, according to the court's decision, will have the right to return property. In order for the return of property to occur, it is not necessary to complete the rehabilitation procedure within a two-year period, but to prove that it has been initiated. The Restitution Directorate, which is now in charge of returning property to churches and religious communities, will be transformed into a restitution agency. This will have greater independence and greater power within the state system and will lead, alongside churches, and a process for natural persons and responsibilities. What I'm trying to say here is that this process is also being extended to duties. This combines the thread of what began in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in our country, which is that people who were successful during their lives, during that same life or at the end of their lives give for what they determine a large part of their assets and assets. This is how we want, with the new fund and debt law, which was recently adopted in this esteemed home, to encourage borrowing in our country. That's why the charges will also be used by the law. The return conditions will be identical for all categories of population. From the moment of adoption of this law, estrangement of the requested property will be prohibited, especially in the privatisation process. The law on public property, which we debated yesterday, respects restitution. As we have seen during the debate in principle, we have a member who specifically says that a revolution cannot happen, i.e. the entry in the property of a single entity, the holder of the right of public property, unless the Property Directorate provides a paper proving that that property is not required in the restitution process or if requested, that that claim has been rejected or is going to compensation rather than to return in kind. Only under these conditions will the city, a public company, be able to enter into the property requested, and on the day of entry into force of both laws, this base formed at the Property Directorate, under the 2006 law. It's a priority to return property to nature wherever possible. The Agency will decide, without delay, on each individual request. This means that it will not wait for the entire scope of what is sought under this law to be seen, but rather, the Agency will make a succesively decision. We see that one real deadline of six months is given, from the moment of forming a complete object, for all objects, and one year for those who are most complex. Of course, some will say that it has waited long enough for these deadlines to be shorter, but the law better has real deadlines that the Agency and the entire administration will have to respect, rather than promise something that will not be maintained. If one thing is to do, it's that from the many empty promises that have existed over the past years, that the law will be passed, to some ideas that it could be implemented, to enter the reality zone, but that this reality zone is effectively implementing the process of restitution that results in life, not just on paper. Our goal is to make the first decisions as soon as possible. If this property is not legally justified today, the property of another natural or legal person and is not absolutely unforgivable for the functioning of the state, and the heirs agreed on an inheritance, there is no reason not to have that property returned as soon as possible. I hope next year we have our first results back in nature. Here I would like to illustrate another aspect of this law, which at every turn is trying to find the right balance between these three principles that I mentioned earlier. If there is a leaser of property, whether it is business space or agricultural land, it is returned to property, and the terms of the lease will be respected and will not be changed for two years in the case of business space and three years if it is agricultural land. Of course, in that time, the new old owner will be the beneficiary of the lease, not more than a few states, in order to provide a transition period for craftsmen, hosts, all others who have not rarely invested in these clubs, to have time to agree with new owners about further joint work and business. As I said, we have a transitional period of two years for business premises and three years for agricultural land. Agricultural land is returning and in case it has become a construction site in the meantime. In other words, if someone had a field, and it is now available to unbuilt building land, that land will return. Right away, let me say one important thing because, based on the 2006 record, as many as 300,000 hectares of agricultural land are wanted, because this land after World War II and various agrarian reforms was the subject of cohesion. In almost all cases, we'll be able to get that land back into the nature of that massage mass. Thus, the largest number of requirements, especially in the agricultural areas of our country, will find the outcome of the restoration in nature. There's been a lot of debate about it, and I want to make it clear here that the commission process will allow for the return of agricultural land and forests in nature, almost everywhere, without exception. If we look at the building land that was leased in the long term, it will return unless the investor meets the contractual conditions. To remind ourselves, the 2003 Law on Planning and Construction, under Article 84, discussed this little during the debate on this law, thanks to that member and that law a significant amount of valuable undeveloped construction land was returned to former owners. That part of the job has already been done through that law, but that job hasn't been done to the end. A large part of the debate focused on the issue of undeveloped construction land and the implications of the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction and the 2011 amendments. I mentioned one aspect, which is that if an investor under that law signs a contract and fulfills that contract, then the land remains owned by that investor. The deadlines are already running from the moment the contract was signed. If the terms of that contract are not met, that land shall be returned. Of course, there are exceptions. We tried to keep these exceptions to a minimum. The example works, he won't return to a natural court complex on Santa, because he's part of our history. There will be no return to buildings where the police, hospitals, schools, or those art collections that are part of our museums today. In this respect, Serbia does not give up on other countries that had before us the opportunity to pass the restitution law. If the seized property cannot be returned to nature, former owners and their owners will receive compensation in the form of money and government bonds. The basis of the asset assessment will be its current market value. Serbia will reserve two billion euros for this purpose, in order to pay compensation to former owners, in bonds that will have between 5 and 15 years of wear. The level of effective compensation to each individual owner will be known at the end of 2014. Here I would like to underline that, at the request of future users, everything necessary in the recognition of these bonds is in this law. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, if you vote this law any future government will be legally bound to issue bonds. You won't need a new bond law. This is a guarantee that there will be a full implementation of the restitution process and in that part of the compensation. State compensation bonds will be issued at the beginning of 2015 and due to experience that a large number of citizens but also investors of domestic and foreign people in the last 10 years have won, managing bonds to pay off old foreign exchange savings, which I remind them have been paid in the last 10 years per day and in the euro. All of those positive characteristics in the very favourable tax treatment and other aspects will also be used for state compensation bonds in the restitution process. That those citizens who expect compensation do not have to wait until 2015 to have the first benefit of the restitution process proposed in the law to pay for the advance as soon as the decision on compensation is made, so that it would be paid in cash amounting to 10% of the estimated value, up to a maximum amount of 10,000 euros per successor. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we have conducted a very core public debate. Like I said, we've been to many points of our territory. We had contact with former owners. We had the opportunity to hear foreign experiences and also get suggestions from the European Commission, as well as from other international organisations. I'd just like to say those domains, there are five of them, where the public debate has ensured that this bill is significantly improved. Before I move on those five elements, I have to say a few words about what has been the subject of the biggest debate in the last few weeks. It's a question of whether, with the return in nature, where it is possible and the compensation in money and bonds should be provided so-called. natural substitution. In other words, if you can't come back for one reason or another, one apartment or one house to return a similar house or similar apartment, not to go to compensation. The seemingly idea that would ensure that the Republic of Serbia's budget, through bonds, is less burdensome, is attractive. We have accessed the analysis of this possibility without any ideological or any other burden. Then we realized that a very small number of countries in the process of restitution, at all, predicted the substitution, and that those who predicted it without any exception from Slovenia, through Macedonia, with which we naturally consulted, strongly recommended that we not enter what some of them called a legal adventure without a clear outcome. There's a difference between, it seems to me, a desire to be popular, a desire to write something that seems to fit the requirements of those who expect the benefits of one process, and on the other hand the possibility of reality and an effective process of restitution. The problem with the substitution, which, by the way, was envisaged as a possibility in the 2006 law on the return of church property and was not used for one single time is that it is impossible to establish a procedure for that substitution. If two people look for two 100-square apartments and expect a substitution for the apartment, the Restitution Agency, the director will have to decide, if there is one apartment, to which the apartment will go. On what grounds? In what way? No one, anywhere, outside Serbia and even in Serbia, has come up with any real idea so that the procedure can be established, and in those countries where the substitution started, it has come to the conclusion that the authority that needs to carry out the substitution is mostly burdened with judicial proceedings, a family that thinks someone else is better substituted. What I'm saying here is, with the risk of someone going through a better cross substitution, there's a real problem, no matter what anyone's saying about the lack of alternative property. There are simply no such thousands of apartments and buildings available and the noises are empty, so that they can be subject to substitution. This means that we should wait to build these buildings and this space where the substitution is supposed to last for twenty years. Without any clear way to complete this procedure. Let's be extremely honest, if one day the Constitutional Court says, so don't carry out a good substitution, executive authority, government, whatever it was then, the only answer will be, so we're doing a good job and there's no outcome. We propose institutes that have a clear start, a clear outcome and a clear walk, a way in and out of this process. It is our responsibility and I, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, am prepared to bear that responsibility, to propose those institutes that will have effects in real life, and not only to be suggested with a clear awareness that they cannot produce results in real life. But the public debate has given a large number of opportunities to advance the bill. Like I said, there's five of them. First, the possibilities of natural restitution have been expanded. First, three cases have been added around not built construction land where former owners can come into ownership in nature. First, if the former owner is now the owner of a property on that land, of course, like all other citizens. Secondly, it has the right to use over built land, and it has not yet converted into real property and finally, and I want to say that here, since some will be asked, well, you mentioned that outcome, but that outcome is already foreseen by the Law on Planning and Construction, simply the former owners wanted this law to provide them with this possibility and that they get back into the nature of that land under this law, to make it clear that they were being taken away from the land, rather than going according to the procedure provided for by all other citizens who were not taken away, this taken away land after World War II. And thirdly, if the company that has obtained the right to use on unbuilt construction land through privatisation, and in the contract, of course, has accepted the possibility of restitution, the company will either be able to or will give up that right, because it has such situations, that it does not enter into the complicated and expensive procedures provided for by law or the conversion into property is not carried out within two years. As I said, the possibility of returning land has already been opened unless the investor in the long-term lease meets the terms of the contract within two years. In simpler words, as far as construction land is not built, the adoption of this two-year-old law will show who is a valid investor. Whoever builds and whose rights as everyone's other rights in this country have to be respected, and who actually wanted to come only to the right to use and to trade them, and has no intention of developing this valuable building land. And in this way we expect the significant amount of additional unbuilt building land to be returned to the original owners. As far as agricultural land is concerned, and I repeat here, we will be able to return agricultural land and forests in natural form almost everywhere and as a rule. It is now possible to return that agricultural land if it has long-term plantations, such as fruit and vineyards. At the same time, it is specified that land under the irrigation system is not returned only if this system is in operation today. In other words, as some former owners have noted, it would be wrong to say that certain parcels do not return because there was a irrigation system 40 years ago. He works on some books, but in real life, that's not the case. If on the day of entry into force of this law this system is not in service, the country will return. At the same time, an exception was narrowed down to returning representative objects. There was a dilemma. One of the very visible effects of restitution must be the return of representative objects that were abducted after World War II. At the same time, in not a small number of these facilities there are embassies from foreign countries and in not a small number of cases of the former state, whose successor we are, have signed international contracts that regulate the giving of the facility to the country, in return for giving of another facility to our country. Of course, we can't go against that international contract and it's one of those exceptions for returning representative objects. We will notice that the only bodies that have the right to say that something representative is the President of the Republic, the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No one else. As for those representative villas and facilities, the only ones who will not return are those located in these diplomatic and consular representations, trade, military representations in these diplomatic and consular offices. The scope of national restitution has been significantly expanded. That's the first one. Secondly, the conditions of compensation through government bonds and money have been significantly improved. Instead of referring to dinars and bonds being indexed for the amount of inflation, bonds are proposed to be on the euro. I must say, it's at the request of the former owners. Before I suggest you support such a solution, we must be aware that Serbia will have a coin as its coin for another 20 years. After this crisis in the euro zone, it is not realistic that anyone enters that zone for the next five to ten years and therefore it is very important that our country enters the added dinarisation or deeuroisation. We also saw problems that occurred with those who had loans indexed in the Swiss franc and this systemic risk should be gradually reduced in our country. But after a public debate, a request was heard that the former owners should not be the first to receive one such state paper. Let the first state in its own debt show that such a financial instrument works, not that those who wait a few decades to get their property back and that their compensation will be the first to have such a financial instrument. For this reason, honourable MPs, we propose that you adopt a solution for the bonds to vote on the euro. It also represents a clear figure which is the subject of the agreement with the IMF, i.e. that two billion euros, representing 6% of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Serbia, are the sums that our country will allocate for compensation in the restitution process. I heard it's not a big deal. The sum is the same sum as the percentage of gross domestic product that one Czech Republic has allocated in the restitution process, in the last 20 years. At the same time, two billion euros is the 10-year agricultural budgets of the Republic of Serbia. These are significant funds, although we should wait to see who reports what, and see how much, and hopefully as much as possible, will be able to return, in nature, and then we will have a more realistic picture around the total volume of restitution, and what I can say is that the process of restitution by the property-financial effect will far miss the privatisation process, which by today represents 4.6 billion euros, about 2 billion euros in bonds and an advance in money, and more than 2 billion euros, about 2.5 billion euros certainly in assets. This is an extremely significant effort and nobody says it's ideal, that it's something that's in the proportion of the damage done to these families, but no one can say it's a small inappropriate effort for our nation. Our nation by adopting this law will make a significant effort to correct one great injustice. At the same time during the public debate, we heard the demands of people who are more distant in years, that if they can't get their assets back in kind and go to bonds that simply at that age they don't want to get bonds that have a 15-year maturity. We have answered that request and we propose that citizens who are 70 years and older on the day of entry into force of this law receive bonds that will be for 5 years. There are amendments that suggest going one step further and we will look favorably upon them. What I can say is that, as was the case with old foreign savings bonds, they will be subject to trade, and since they exist, and it was not 10 years ago, but there are foreign investors, who are now bonds of old foreign savings that users sold to them, there are opportunities and I already get one number of persons who say it is possible, that a crowd offer is being made and that if the users want to do so, and that nobody commits them, if they want to in 2015, join one united offer of the Republic of Serbia, on the international capital market, I am confident that they will be provided, because one big auction would be organised, to see which investors give the best conditions for these bonds, because I am confident that in this way they will provide the best conditions for former owners. I'd end up with this question, and it'll only be after the decision of the former owners, and no one can force them to, but I think that if they want to sell those bonds, and get to the funds right away, not to wait 5 or 15 years, they'll have the best conditions. Thirdly, an accelerated and cheap procedure for the return of assets and damages has been accelerated. We heard during the public debate that it is not fair to charge administrative fees and various fees for the return of some property, which was taken away, without any compensation, some symbolic compensation. That's the legislator here predicted. The State will not charge fees and fees during the restitution process. The Republic Geodetic Institute will assume on itself all costs of issuing necessary papers. One more thing, according to the government's additional amendments, we have predicted that everything the Agency can do for restitution, it does for its official duty, so that the former owners do not expose themselves to the cost and time needed. For example, to provide evidence that this country or that country has reciprocity with us or not. One thing we've discussed a lot is inheritance. In order not to get into a situation, a French Kafka, that case works, in front of the Agency for Restitution, the heirs disagree, and one way to resolve it, is to refer to the court and not to let the court say then – respected citizens, which you really want to agree on, or you want us to judge, to say – about this property and to say, I am sorry, but that property has not yet been returned. Go back to court when that property comes back, so that people are in one vicious circle. Of course, in this law it is very detailed that it enables the procedure to be accelerated, and that in all cases where former owners have agreed on an inheritance, they do not have to go to the competent court, and if there is a dispute, that the court has everything that is necessary to resolve this legacy only in the sense of who has the right to succeed, not engaging in other elements. So, I believe, by respecting the best experts in our country, we resolved what could have been, and it was in many countries, a lot of complicated procedures. The administrative court will decide on any complaints under emergency procedure. We know that this is important because our Administrative Court already has a large number of cases today and it is very important that the Administrative Court, that is also on their suggestion, decides by the appeal of this law by emergency procedure. Fourthly, an even stronger ban on alienating wanted property by the state has been provided. In fact, the President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, if you compare that version that was proposed for public debate and the version that is before you, you will see that the state predicted and abolished any extraordinary procedure for selling certain assets, even if it was necessary in some cases. The state shall refer to regular procedures, if necessary, expropriation and other known institutes, and not that property, which is today state-owned, is returned and requested. In that sense, the families of former owners were right. These are the provisions that should have been made before. Today they exist and they are a legal foothold that will be able to use anyone seeking property, a restitution agency and, if necessary, a judge. It is a strong guarantee that the time of restitution has come and that what is required will not be sold in any transitional period in any way, but will wait for the first resolution of the restitution issue. Finally, solutions were proposed for a number of specific situations. I was already talking about rehab. I wouldn't talk much about what, I believe, will be the subject of further debates in this home, just to say that it's very important, now that the possibility and material compensation of property or financial is emerging, that the Rehabilitation Act foresees the possibility of both sides being heard. Of course, that those families that are seeking rehabilitation can make their arguments, but it is also very important to hear the voice of the state, if necessary, and to have all the facts present when the judge decides or decides on this matter. It's very important that we don't get into a situation, don't let God, that some people who shouldn't be rehabilitated are rehabilitated and that they get additional compensation, that is. Indemnification. But, of course, everywhere on ideological bases someone calls himself a common enemy, not rarely just to take away his property and take away his property, there must be rehabilitation and there must be restitution. Dear Chairman, we have also predicted a specific situation for victims of holocausts and other victims of fascism that do not have living heirs. It's a very complicated question and it can't be predicted that where there's no heir, another private person inherits that property and gets compensation. It would simply open up one of Pandora's legal boxes and cause serious problems in our system. But what has been done has been proposed and discussed with representatives of what the Jewish communities, which is the representative of the Jewish community in the world, but also with other victims of fascism, suggest that the Old Fair, it will not be easy to do, become finally a memorial centre for all victims of holocausts and fascism, Jewish, Serbian, Roma and all others, because there has been the execution of 7,000 Jews for a few weeks and after that 28,000 members of other nationalities died under terrifying circumstances. We know well that there is, as is the case almost everywhere in our country, complicated property-legal issues and therefore, respected chairman, respected MPs, we will propose to you in the months to come, surely before the end of this government's term, a specific law that will establish a memorial centre, as well as a fund that will manage that centre. Dear People's MPs, such an improved law on the return of the seized property and the compensation will allow for the correcting of a major historical injustice. I'm honest with you, he couldn't have been ideal. I remember, 10 years ago, as a slightly younger finance minister, I tried to propose a law on denationalisation in the government of the late Zoran Djindjic. That wasn't possible at the time. I expect a number of criticisms today, suggestions. I say in advance, if you're so smart, why haven't you done it in the last 10 years? We have gathered enough capacity here, hopefully and knowledge, to give a very clear picture of a quality balanced law. He's not ideal, but he's real and he's a piece of work in the Republic of Serbia. It will correct at the maximum possible amount and the extent of one injustice. It's not the only injustice that's been done in our country. How many families lost everything in the bombing in 1941 and 1944? How many people were sent to wars that weren't theirs? How many farmers during the decade have had to buy their products at the cost of unsuspecting and money? How many people have been investing in some housing funds for decades that were nothing? That's why, as always, we have to have a sense of state and a sense of balance. The time has come to correct in a realistic way this injustice that is not alone, but it is real. In order for this to be one law that will have its outcome, in order to avoid what we have found to be great faults and in other countries where these procedures have been going on for 20 years, I believe that one of the great injustices now, if you vote this law, that the restitution after so many decades of waiting, would take a few more decades. That wouldn't be fair at all. This is why we are very much preparing the personnel and information agency for the restitution, which is due to carry out this complicated procedure, to avoid a small number of citizens, and some of them are in advanced years of work and effort. Those who delivered under the 2006 law, unorthodox and quality evidence, will be returned to them by one of the recommended shipments to their address in months coming from the Property Directorate. They won't have to come to Belgrade and wait in the snow, it rains for someone in the directorate to deliver those documents to them. At the same time, an agreement has been reached that the lecture request is done on specially equipped mail counters where there will be people present who will be trained not to say whether or not anyone has the right to restitution, it is not the function of one post office, but which will verify whether the subject is well-formed enough, whether all necessary papers are present and thus we will shorten the waitings, and on the other hand those great frustrations that exist when citizens have to deliver some papers two and three times. I can only say that with the formation of the regional units of the Agency for Restitution in Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade and Novi Sad, we will reduce the distance for those discussions that will follow and thus reduce the cost and time for our citizens. On all this, of course, we will communicate very closely in the weeks following the adoption of this law. Finally, the President-in-Office, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, proposed law on the return of the seized property and the compensation is to the extent of our country. He corrects the injustice that was done decades ago on ideological grounds. He will not create new injustices and is in line with the available property and financial resources of our nation. He treats, perhaps most importantly, all citizens and subjects in an equal manner and enables a start without delay to solve this great problem. I am convinced that this law may be a modest but important step towards national reconciliation, that those things that happened during the 20th century in our country because of conflicted ideology are now being put behind us and we affirm the country as a modern, civil, European democracy. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60599	Do the committees want the word? Does the word National MP Branko Ljiljak, vice president of the Finance Committee, want? No, I don't. ) Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60600	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Associates, the Action Plan of the Government of Serbia for the creation of strategic laws necessary in the contest for obtaining the negotiating status of EU candidates, are surrounded by the adoption of public property laws, the law on the return of seized property and compensation, as well as the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities. A large number of sub-socialist countries in our environment and beyond, more or more, have successfully completed the restitution processes, i.e. the return of property created and taken from previous owners over the past 70 years. Slovenia, Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia and other countries have adopted a natural substitution or monetary compensation, and after conducting previous denationalisation operations, taken up property. We are deeply aware that no country is perfect, neither ours nor Serbia and that no social arrangement is perfect. In some countries, it is particularly difficult to live because of historical heritage, which has so far followed us cruelly and reminded us of all the blames and all the injustices that have been done to many citizens, who have waited so long for this righting of injustice. Our generation is a witness to all historical events, both periods of nationalisation and confiscation of individual property and its transition to state, or social property, as well as the period of building the largest part of all economic, economic, educational and cultural goods, partly and on property belonging to someone else. This assembly re-emerged in its mandate on one of the most important social historical tasks, which is to consider and adopt a maximum fair solution for all those who have been waiting for it for over 65 years. There have been many temptations related to the adoption of phase laws, without which a difficult transition route could not be made from isolated and the country's sanctions, to the EU candidate country. The public debate on the draft proposed laws has shown the need to ensure broad agreement on all key and strategic objectives of this law. We believe that today's debate in principle, and then by amendments, in our Parliament, will lead to this law to address all key issues related to the fair return of the seized property and compensation of natural and legal persons. The very fact that the Reimbursement Act lays down as much as 41 regulations establishing the basis for the return of the seized property further suggests the responsible and serious coverage of this procedure. We are aware that the restitution is for all countries, and especially for us, one of the most difficult processes for countries in transition, because it must give up much of its property, whether it was created by nationalisation or that it was created by the activity of economic operators on that nationalised property. Surely our denationalisation will have far-reaching consequences for future economic, economic and other flows, and it is certain that the state will only carry out this procedure to the extent that it has to be implemented, and based on the laws that we are soon adopting. This law is not only a formal condition for Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status, but it is an extremely complex and difficult legal act that will finally meet the most responsible respect for the principles of justice, the principles of guaranteeing human rights, and that is an increasingly expensive basis for every democratic society. It is a great and multiple responsibility for parliament to call on this principle to build on this principle the most just and fair compensation of the seized assets, to prescribe and implement the correct compensation and to create and improve conditions for further development of economy, enterprise, trade and business competition. All property-legal relations that create a commitment to the state and its citizens must be regulated by law, and this obligation, in particular, because the property was seized on different grounds, 60 and more years ago transferred and used as a universal, as a state, social or cooperative property. Decisions proposed in this law contaminate the possibility of returning, in natural or other form, one part of the property on any basis: property in public property established and established by the previous law; official buildings and premises serving the work of state bodies; immovableities in the activities of health, education, science, culture and children's education; parts of immovable property within various infrastructure networks; immovableities which are part of economic and technological continents; immovableities owned by the Assembly and the Government; immovableities of diplomatic and consular offices; court complex on the Heritage; sold property and property acquired in the privatisation and property of state enterprises. The PUPS parliamentary group is also in the public debate, and is now in favour of recognising all return procedures of the seized property and compensation procedures, including the right to substitution as one of the ways of restitution. The replacement land restitution is possible in the existing and recognised legal principles from the land fund that the state of Serbia has. Let us all remind ourselves that back in 1990, we were very successful in restoring property to peasants and craftsmen who were deprived of agricultural land without compensation. Many were allowed to return village mornings, as well as return property to cooperatives to settle their claims. Since 2006, total restitution and compensation of churches and religious communities have begun. For the past 15 years, five draft laws on denationalisation have been proposed in Serbia, but none have been brought to life, precisely because of the non-principle discrimination of individual foreign and domestic governance circles that have created discrimination against this legal form of default. Today, by considering this draft law and its adoption, we will continue to prevent the restitution of material immovableities and any further disabling private initiative to work and creating profits on returned immovableities, which will enable the individual's economic independence to freely dispose and create on its immovableity. Natural, substitute, financial or any other form of restitution must eliminate all open system issues in order to finally begin this process in the right way, by eliminating a large number of severe economic consequences suffered by previous owners. In the process of harmonising certain solutions offered by this law, the national agreement of the IMF was also needed to ensure that the total funds intended for the recovery of the ex post-deprived assets are not charged and calculated in public debt rights up to 45% of the gross social product, in order to avoid the question of sustainability of public functions or finances. It is necessary to first look closely at and determine the total amount for the restitution of the assets and then define the way in which the fees are recovered and paid. We note that this proposal provides for a return and compensation for assets seized by natural or legal persons after 9 March 1945, and based on 41 legal provisions listed in Article 2. It's a bill of law. The right to restitution will not be granted to members of the German national minority who were expelled after 1945, as well as persons who were members of the occupation forces. The law laid down basic principles that the property would return in natural form wherever possible, and if it did not, compensation would be paid. However, return bonds will be exclusively state, province and municipality, i.e. public enterprises and enterprises with majority social capital. The return obligation will also apply to cooperatives, and it is therefore a good definition that the draft law provides for the property to be returned to nature or depreciated in money and state bonds wherever possible. We agree that it is not possible to make damages based on the loss of profits due to the inability to use the property and that it is difficult to calculate and pay the former owners and heirs who might require it. We think it's a good solution that the state-owned property that the owner received under the law must not be further injured and all acquired rights cannot be violated. That is why it is normal for all those assets currently owned and returned to nature. In the law, according to us, a well-constituted category of all property refunders is the Republic, an autonomous province, local self-government, public enterprises and companies whose founder is state-owned. The commitment to return immovableities in nature, without burden, is good, as well as that the claims provided by mortgages are again guaranteed by the state, with the mandatory right to regress against mortgage debtors. Denialing the tax on depriving persons is also a proper definition, in our opinion, and should be supported. The draft law for the return of undeveloped building land in design, except for those provided for by long-term planning documents for development and investment in buildings and public purposes, is also a proper and legitimate definition that we will support. It is good that the law will protect and will not allow the return of parcels that have been leased in the long term since 13 May 2003, unless the contract is terminated. The draft law correctly provides for an estimate of the value of real estate to be carried out by the tax administration on the scale under the sublaw, which otherwise accounts for the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. This is practically the current market value of certain properties. We agree that the law correctly approaches the determination of the value of the taken-off companies, sticking to the legal principle that the value of the company is equal to the value of the company's capital, i.e. it is precisely its nominal value. The PUPS parliamentary group has been paying particular attention to the draft law, as well as to working-consultative meetings, actively taking part with Ministry representatives, in public debates concerning the sources of compensation in the process of restitution, as one of the most important issues. We support the solution to provide funds from dedicated sources of privatisation, that part of the funds must be realised from the conversion of the right to use the building land in property, with compensation under the Law on Planning and Construction, and it is particularly important to provide 100% of the funds achieved from the environment of the seized property in the state property. Of course, a large part of the funds will be provided from the dedicated funds provided for in the Republic budget. The rights of private persons and enterprises acquired on the nationalised property will not be violated, nor will the rights of all citizens of Serbia who are former owners of the seized property, or their legal heirs, then, the responsibilities with legal followers or foreign citizens, if there is reciprocity. It is normal for the law to establish that the right to return property and compensation do not have foreign nationals for whom the obligation to compensation has been taken over by foreign states or members of the occupation forces during World War II and foreign nationals who have already been compensated by any other procedure. In return, no compensation that was once paid to former owners should be charged, but even former owners will not be able to claim damages for the previous period. In Articles 17 and 18. The draft law contains exceptions to return in natural form. First, it is stated, and we support it, that those facilities that are increased by building, or building, and then objects that are under the law in the sole public property, official buildings, buildings used by public institutions, as well as state-owned enterprises will not return. The returned property will be free of mortgage burdens and personal services, while actual service must remain. In Articles 20 to 29, a more detailed description has been carried out, relating to building agricultural land and residential and business facilities. It is clear that no building land on which a building, public area is built will be returned, nor will an unbuilt land be built if it plans to build buildings for public purposes, or facilities for the economic development of the site. It will not return to the agricultural and forest land on which the buildings in the agricultural production function are built, if new parcels need to be carried out, in order to pave the way for that parcel, as well as for that land in the cooperative or social property, which has been acquired by freight legal work. In housing, the former owner of the apartment will become a tenant to the tenant, according to legal conditions. We believe that after 70 years we have come to a step in correcting the historical injustices resulting from the confiscation of property. We think that all three key principles that the law promotes are respected, and above all, the injustice that has been done to many citizens, their families and their entire communities. The resolution of this law will not create new or severe injustices, as legal property acquired today's owners will be respected, over the property required for restitution, and in particular the law will achieve a high degree of compliance with the available property and financial resources of our country, and that is particularly important, because the law will be applicable without jeopardising the country's overall financial stability. The draft law well designed the possibility of a natural institution, especially for construction land not built. The conditions of compensation have been improved through government bonds, especially for citizens who have more than 70 years of life, noting that this law speeds up and lowers the recovery process. The PUPS Group supports a solution in which the state will not charge fees and fees during the restitution procedure, and in particular I support the state's position to fully prohibit the alienation of the requested property until the end of the procedure, even if this alienation or property is sought by the state. The PUPS Group will fill in its capacity a full commitment to the rapid and effective implementation of this law, especially in finding solutions to a large number of specific problems, such as the rehabilitation and return of property to the victims of Holocaust. The amendments to the draft of this law will try to help resolve issues related to property substitution, in order to prevent any discrimination and in the desire to replace property where possible with a clear outcome, without new court proceedings. We have seen this law as a major part of the legal, economic, economic and particularly political participation of this Parliament in the end of the national reconciliation process that follows us from liberation to this day. In voting day, with the amendment being passed, we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60601	15 minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60602	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, let me first of all say that correcting historical injustices is undoubtedly a positive goal, and we all support that. Unfortunately, numerous examples of other countries that have passed this process prove that this process is inconclusive without creating new animosities. It was a situation in many other countries. This animosity is created and will be created with us, first and foremost between the one part of the legislation, and on the other hand those who expect restitution, i.e. compensation. Surely they will be dissatisfied. There's no way to make it right. On the other hand, an animosity will be created between those who expect some of this process and those who will appear in this process only as bonds, therefore, between those who expect nothing, the only burden of this process will be borne. It was like that everywhere. All of this is complicated by those ideological divisions that exist in Serbia's society and on the one hand, the division in the majority society itself, on the other hand, differing views of events during the first and foremost of World War II between the majority society and between individual minority communities. These are some circumstances that certainly affect the adoption of this law. I think the government has managed to bring the first circumstance, the potential animosity between those who expect and those who expect nothing from this process, down to a minimum. There's been a huge effort here, and we welcome it. On the other hand, I think that we are also talking about a bill submitted to the National Assembly, a potential animosity, or disagreement on ideological differences between the majority society and individual minority communities, unfortunately the government did not take into account when setting out the bill. That's why they've submitted certain amendments. I'll talk more about it later. Why does all this matter to us? For us, all of this is important because SVM considers one of its priorities to contribute to the historic reconciliation, reconciliation of the majority people and reconciliation of our community. In this regard, we have put forward a number of initiatives in recent years. On our initiative, I would like to remind you, an inter-academic commission has been formed between SANU and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, with the aim of investigating and assessing those tragic events that took place during World War II. The commission has started to work and will certainly be visible in due time and the results of the commission's work. Why does all this matter? I'll come back to that later. Now I'd like to ask you a little bit about some other questions regarding the bill. During the public debate, our party submitted 15 suggestions on this bill. I want to realize that most of these suggestions have already been accepted in the bill itself, and I want to commend that. These suggestions were part of our own, and they were partly shared with many other participants in the public debate. We asked, above all, to extend the possibility of restitution in natural form. I think that request, not entirely, but more or less respected. We asked for bonds to be indexed in euro, and that request was accepted by the government. We asked for an absolute ban on alienation. And that suggestion was accepted. We also asked for some things about the procedure, first of all to establish the evidence needed in this procedure, the evidence requested by the applicant must bear, so that there is no question left for any regulation or regulation of the ministry. That suggestion has been accepted. We also asked for incomplete demands not to be rejected by automation. In part, this suggestion of ours has been accepted. We also asked that, in certain situations, the burden of proof or determination of facts be the task of the agency, according to official duty. The government's amendment largely accepts this suggestion, as far as the question of reciprocation is concerned. We also asked for the release of the payment of court administrative fees, the various fees of the applicant. And that suggestion of ours has been accepted. However, three of our key suggestions in the bill, I would like to stress once again, in the proposal referred to in the assembly procedure, are not accepted. First of all, this refers to the possibility of substituting, therefore, the return of other relevant assets. If the original bill were to remain, it would certainly mean at least double discrimination, therefore, discrimination against those to whom the property would be returned in kind and which would receive full compensation, on the other hand, of those whose restitution would mean partial compensation in bonds or in money. On the other hand, discrimination would occur between those who would receive restitution, i.e. compensation under this law and, on the other hand, between those who received a refund of agricultural land under the 1991 Law on the return of land and social property. I think it would be a paradox to get into a situation if this Milosevic law was practically more just than the one we bring in 2011. We welcome today's amendment to the Government, which applies to agricultural land and to the process or the process of cohesion. I think this amendment is largely solving this problem and it's coming out to meet this request. This amendment means one partial or hidden substitution. I think that's fair to say. It's from our point of view positive. I don't know if the government will submit a similar solution or a similar amendment to the law on the return of church property, since it would be logical for the same principle to be respected in that other law. You said that this part, the absence of a complete substitution or that possibility, is the responsibility of the government and we can accept it. Another of our key objections is to a period that covers the law. According to the law, time begins to run since 9 March 1945. In one of our suggestions, we asked that all those assets that were seized during World War II, whether it was taken away by German, Hungarian or communist authorities, if this remained in state property after World War II, that it would be fair for the law to apply to this situation. Yesterday, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance gave an interpretation of the bill's proposal, under which one of the provisions can be interpreted in a way that meets this request. We welcome that, with the fact that I think it would be fairer for citizens to accept our amendment, because then everyone who reads the law, and not lawyers, in the first article would understand what this law applies to. It's quite difficult to get to this interpretation, which is fine, but it would be much simpler for citizens to put this fact unequivocally into law. That wouldn't allow any other interpretations later. Our main objection was to point 3) of Article 5's position in the original bill, a point that, in our deep conviction, promotes the principle of collective responsibility. Under this original bill, all those who participated in World War II as members of the so-called "restitution" would be excluded from the process of restitution. occupation forces. I use that word "so-called" because that formula is used by the law. So, no exceptions and no restrictions. This would mean, in practice, that all those who found themselves in a particular area that was occupied and after that occupation fulfilled their obligation to the new authorities, which at that time was the only legal authority in certain areas, therefore, all by automation were excluded from this process. I think that would be completely unfair because it would mean applying the principle of collective responsibility. So, according to everyone, no exceptions and no identifying any individual responsibility. Otherwise, if this restriction had remained, as was the original bill, it would have been contrary to the current Rehabilitation Act, which does not deny anyone the right to apply for rehabilitation, if it had or had had that person's residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It was simply one solution that was completely unacceptable to us. Of course, we have submitted an amendment to this provision of the law. Otherwise, we talked about the principle of collective responsibility at least on two occasions in the National Assembly, we also talked about when it was on the agenda of the Srebrenica Declaration, and we also talked about when it was on the agenda of the declaration of condemnation of crimes committed against members of the Serb people. We generally, no matter what crimes we are dealing with and for what period, are seeking to delete from our legal system of this principle. Unfortunately, at least two decisions remain in force, valid decisions that exist in Serbia's legal system, based on the principle of collective responsibility and have never been put out of force. One decision was made in January 1945 and the decision was taken by the Committee for the Identification of Crimes of Occupiers and Their Assistants in Vojvodina. The decision found that all inhabitants of the Hungarian and German nationalities of the municipality of Curug, the cut of Žabaljski in Vojvodina, were responsible as perpetrators and incentivists, assistants, etc. Based on this collective responsibility, everyone has been declared war criminals. I think you should say that. It's one circumstance we want to change. There is a very similar decision, it refers to the residents of our settlements Moshorin, the same in Vojvodina, made by the same commission. The decision found that 294 residents of Moshorin settlements, based on the same principle, are collectively responsible as perpetrators, instigators and helpers for crimes and declared collectively war criminals. This is a March 1945 decision. Why does all this matter? Because later confiscation decisions were made based on these two decisions I quoted. I have in my hand one of the judgments of the Srega Court in Zablja, which says that the entire property is confiscated, which lists the name of the person, the former population of Curuga, "to whom a joint sentence is applied against the Hungarians cut by Žabaljski. "That is why we felt the key acceptance of this amendment, i.e. erasing the solution that the Proposer had in the original bill. If this principle had remained, it would have meant promoting or confirming the principles of collective responsibility, and on the other hand, it would have meant devising the work of that inter-academic commission, which has been trying now for two years to reach a historic reconciliation at the end of its work, so on this period. We have submitted an amendment proposing that the provision that I was talking about should be recast in a way that does not apply to those who, on 6 April, so on the day of the start of World War II, had a residence on the territory of the current Republic of Serbia on condition that they were not convicted of war crimes or were convicted or later not rehabilitated. I think our amendment should have been in its original form, so in the form in which we suggested, it should have been accepted. The government has submitted its own amendment, I don't know whether for vanity or for other reasons. The Government's amendment essentially solves this problem and I want to underline it in this way, this amendment to the Government is deleted from the Bill of Law, the principle of collective responsibility. Therefore, for our community this solution is acceptable, but I think the solution from the Government's amendment is legal-technically lacking, since it allows two interpretations of the concept of a foreign citizen. We could see for ourselves during the debate on the committees on this bill. In fact, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance said on the Finance Committee that this provision, therefore the Government's amendment, has to be interpreted in a way that this restriction applies to today's moment, so to the present state, whether someone who submits today's request is a foreign citizen. Later, on that same day, he made a statement to Tanjug saying that it refers to the moment when events took place during World War II. I don't think this is good. Of course, once again, I underline this for the Hungarian community does not pose a problem and for this reason the solution is acceptable, but I think it would be celibate to reconsider our amendment because our amendment does not allow for different interpretations and I would still appeal to that. I would also appeal to the government that when it re-establishs the bill on rehabilitation that everything I've been talking about has been kept in mind, because the same principle has to apply in this law, that is, in that other future rehabilitation law. In the end, I would like to draw attention to a really legal-technical mistake, but I needed to say it now because there is still time for the Government to correct this error in the law, and this applies to Article 32. I would ask you just for a moment to pay attention, namely, in Article 32(2), it reads "that the competent authority in Article 1 of this Article will determine the value of immovableity". Therefore, the competent authority referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article. When you read Article 32, you do not have a call for any authority there. So we don't know who this competent authority is calling for the position of the 2nd member. So, I think this suggestion is really in place and I urge you to take a look at this and consider it. We will discuss some of our other amendments in the discussion in particular. We have two or three more important, but not a key amendment to define this law, but all in all I think is that if all of this, so what the Government has proposed, accepted suggestions and, of course, in the form of the amendment, further proposed to the Assembly, that it would have a positive effect, our positive commitment to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60603	Dear Members of the People, before I continue the work of the notice of the resignation of the Members of the People. You have received the resignations of Veroljub Stevanović and Saša Milenic as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of these paragraphs, which has found that the resignation of the case under Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of these MPs. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office has ceased and before the end of the time on which MPs were elected to Veroljub Stevanović and Saša Milenic, elected from the election list ZES – Boris Tadic, on the day of resigning, or on 14 September 2011. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to speak? No, in that case, the word has a People's MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60604	Mrs. Comic, Vice President Djelic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, a very important law, I think everyone is aware of that. A lot of his importance was spoken of by the Deputy Prime Minister, and we had the opportunity to hear fellow MPs who spoke before me about the law itself, and I would say that we must be aware of the value we dispute and the values we wish to establish in this law. Of course, we cannot ignore the fact that this law makes it attractive primarily because of the expectations of the part of our society that in a situation where we are all together as citizens of a poor country in what way they try to come as normal and more correct as possible, especially given the fact that they are indeed heirs to the property that is in front of them, which they have no right to. For us from the LDP, this law has always been important. Since 2006, in the first parliamentary elections in which we participated, we have highlighted the importance of the restitution law. Then, understanding this material aspect of the law itself, we gave real attention to the principle of legal certainty because I don't think that in this debate we should push ourselves into another plan, because if something makes this law valuable, then it is, in addition to correcting these historical injustices, individual ones, it is certainly the principles on which we want to build modern Serbia, among other things, and based on the inviolability of the private property that needs to be established through this law. What Mr. Djelic, we must say is something that remains here among us as MPs in another plan or conduct in our discussions. We make this law to correct mistakes, and we don't make laws to make new ones. Please take real care of that. We want to vote in favour of the restitution law, in our findings with you we have introduced you not only to the objections but to the views of our party that are principled and I hope you will have understanding. That's where we took care of the leak on one side. I don't think you can talk about any intention. Which practically excluded the Jewish community in Serbia from the restitution law, since it was established as a date in 1945. We have handed you an amendment to Article 1 of the Restitution Act, asking you to include the restitution law and the property of all victims of the Holocaust. I am absolutely convinced that the government will have an understanding of such a thing and that it cannot, in itself, be controversial, especially in democratic Serbia and Serbia, which we want to develop at European values. Mr. Djelic, we must pay attention to what you mentioned in the law that lists, very precisely, the regulations that are being put out of force. It's about 41 regulations, an indication, a rule or a law, which was passed by the institutions of the state that we are talking about today, among other things, but I primarily mean with ambition to correct criminal law rather than ambition, given that political or ideological circumstances have changed. We are establishing some new dominant political and ideological values. That's why this law is very important to us. It's bad that we didn't talk about the rehab law first, because then it would be much clearer what it was about. I think it took a row of moves. This is how the Restitution Act includes the elements of the Rehabilitation Act. First, let's look back at what the government did. I think this is a law that, unlike many others, is deprived of demagogy and pulsism. That's what's fair. Worse than partially rectified injustice is the cover-up of some new lies, demagogy and false and unfulfilled promises. We talked about this law, and you mentioned it in 2001. We couldn't bring it back then, because then we were paying back a 5 billion-euro debt of old foreign currency savings. It's not about the absence of desire, it's about the fact that we inherited a society where the average salary was 15 euros, and the debt to citizens, such a poor state, is five billion. That's why we're talking about this law today. In the meantime, it would be easier for us to get some other jobs done that would make the law more quick and efficient. First of all, I think of that rather chaotic collection campaign as a request for restitution, which in the end proved completely unnecessary, because the unusable documentation that has been collected in such a way was not only systematised but was not defined nor the criteria on which it would be possible to implement it effectively until the end of the procedure, which was thus started. I'm not challenging the fact that 140 or 150,000 demands have been filed. Maybe they're all absolutely legitimate. In the very precise property-legal relations entered through this law, it is impossible to effectively bring this job to an end, given the way it was started. It's one of the more difficult circumstances. That's why people who have already made demands will have to do it again. This should not be seen as a consequence of the whim of us who are ready to vote in favour of this law. It is necessary, and so something must be done so as not to repeat mistakes and make some new injustices. The way we have observed this law, it has primarily stemmed from our sense of obligation to correct the greatest extent of this historical injustice, but on the other hand, that in no way do we endanger further and normal work in our society, or development through taking on certain obligations, which tomorrow this country will not be able to respect. Because of this, there was no possible different kind of restitution that was foreseen here. First, very clearly limited, not by our desire or whim, but by the ability of the country and the society in which we live, if we were a richer country, then the limit would probably be above two billion that we are talking about today as a monetary mass that will be divided into those who seek, who are subject to restitution through bonds. Natural, it's about a paradox that's present in our society and a difference that I don't think can be tolerated. We are not all equal in Serbia, although by the letter of the Constitution we should be. For example, religious communities have come under the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, the right to a greater degree than the rights we give to the citizens of our country and that is the fact. The substitution is completely natural to restitution. It is a principle that applies and will apply until the entry into force of this law. This means that, for example, 40% of the assets of the SPC have already been returned fully in accordance with the principles of the Law on the Return of Property to Religious Communities and Churches, and now we have a problem with citizens who do not have the rights that we have given to some other institutions in our society specifically those religious communities and churches. This should be seriously considered, for it can be a source of many misunderstandings, and it says how bad it is to go into a campaign way to solve such a big problem. We want to, Mr. Djelic, from you, and we're asking for an understanding of Article 35. It is about persons who have the right to material compensation in bonds, which, according to the letter of the law, enter, which can be used, the first show in 2015. You have provided for in Article 35 that persons over the age of 70 can immediately exercise that right and unlike other young people who exercise their right over a period of 15 years, it can do so within a period of five years. We ask you to consider and bring that limit down to 65 years, where a 65- to 70-year-old person might be able to achieve his right over a period of 10 years. We don't think it's fair to make the difference so much between people who have been born within a month, or half a year, and that can happen, because there's a lot of justice anyway, even if on this principle we try to do it, to bring that line down to 65 years and over 65 to 70 years, to view as a period in which users of these material compensations will be able to make it within 10 years, not 15 years. We think it's very important. Mr. Djelic, I want to ask you something that actually sheds a whole new light on your law, which is this article of the 5th and the amendment that you have submitted. We don't want to challenge at all the fundamentality of someone's right to, regardless of the flow of time, at all times, be able to correct some injustice against which it was committed. We are interested, Mr. Djelic, in why you wrote the amendment to Article 5(3). The Law on Restitution, which is practically precedentd, because I think we will become the only European country, which 70 years after World War II, relativises the role of fascist, Nazi or occupation forces in Serbia. This can be a big problem, because it's the opposite of the Constitution, contrary to the Criminal Code, and it can't be part of the new rehabilitation law that we're going to discuss tomorrow. I'll tell you what this is really about, you're in Article 5(3). The law states very precisely which persons do not have the right to compensation or return of property – a natural person, a foreign citizen, or his legal heirs, for whom the obligation of compensation has been taken over by a foreign state on the basis of an international contract, a natural person or his successors who, without the existence of an international contract, have been compensated or have been granted the right to return the property. Item 3 of which the Government is now giving up -- a person who was a member of the occupation forces operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II, as well as his successors. You change that, Mr. Djelic, by saying that in the return law, you take away property and damages, in Article 5(3), the person, replaces the word – a natural person, a foreign citizen. Mr. Djelic, who were the occupation forces in Serbia in World War II, that is very well known. In Kosovo - Italians, eastern Serbia - Bulgarians, in your Pyrot and in mine, Srem - NDH, Hungary's Hortiyev forces and German occupation forces. In which country of Europe is in this way relativating something that is the value of every free society, and we think that makes it this norm. I don't know if the government was aware of the weight of the amendments they submitted. It's not collective responsibility, as is not the collective responsibility of our Srebrenica Resolution. When radicals say that we condemn the entire Serbian people constantly, that the genocide for which the Republika Srpska Army is responsible was committed in Srebrenica, we do not consider it a collective responsibility, we think it is a fact. When a court in Nirberg declares all members of the SS war criminals, it's not collective responsibility. Don't, Mr. Djelic, let it go like this. If there are victims of criminal-legal failures, then there is a law in this country that changes it. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a very clear way of changing a judicial decision, that is, the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Rehabilitation Act, which was passed in 2006, is the opposite of the Constitution, I already said. Under criminal law, the right to rehab can only be obtained by a person sentenced to a sentence of less than five years and only by a personal request, no one on her behalf can do so. Recurring a criminal case is possible if some facts have been falsified, if new knowledge has been made, or if the judge has violated the law in the proceedings and committed a criminal offence. For us, it is totally unacceptable to further disenfranchise and challenge the antifascist flows of this society. This is no way to overcome historical injustices, but certainly not on the subject of the Restitution Act. I ask you to take care of this because the MPs who have said that this law in every country entagonizes society, so it will also entagonize in our country. I think it will be hard for those who have lived for 70 years without their property that has been taken from them because they were ideologically or politically opposed to one regime, among other things, these are indications and norms that we now put out of force, and that have been brought into an equal position with the members of the occupation forces. That's what it looks like in the end, Mr. Djelic. Since you haven't offered an explanation for these amendments, please tell us why you're doing it. We have one more question, Mr. Djelic, Article 5, the final position in which the government's intention to create this law legal assumptions for the establishment of a holocaust victims' memorial centre with the means of victims who do not have heirs, but there is their property, and then by that basis, that property can be materialized in such a way as to obtain funds that will build a memorial centre. I warn you, Mr. Djelic, that's where we make one mistake. Two years ago, although we were observers in the Czech Republic, 46 countries signed a declaration that regulated the property of Holocaust victims who had no heirs. There's something that's an unwritten rule, Mr. Djelic, that property can't be used to build a memorial of the mark, the memorial centers of the victims themselves because it's an obligation of the state. Mr. Djelic, we can talk about the way we will get to these funds, but I think we need to have a conversation with the Union of Jewish municipalities in Serbia, especially because we talked to them, I believe that you were in a position to do something like that, and find an acceptable way to find an awful spot standing on the cheek of the Serb people in a civilized way. More will be said of this by our MP Ivan Andric, but I remind you that in our country regulations a order has been established that was by no means different from the order in Berlin of World War II, if it is about the attitude of the Jews. Please don't get us into one problem, especially since I don't think anyone wants to and that no one's intention was to. We've had contacts with the Union of Jewish municipalities and they're much more than assets and possessions of that property are practically interested in this piet which we have to show to the victims themselves, not using their property because there are no heirs on behalf of the construction of memory funds, which is otherwise an unwritten rule in the world. I told you 46 countries were there. We were bystanders. It's something that, Mr. Djelic, we should also talk about and try to avoid such a problem. I want to say something that sheds light on one segment of our life that's in another plan. This is not a law that somehow remands the state with victims from 1945 to 1947 and all those who have lost their property. If an article 36 is looked at, you will see how the funds for this material surplus are provided. They are secured from privatisation in a country where a constant campaign against privatisation is being conducted, is being provided from the conversion of income land, which is thus achieved by the state, and by this moment, the law was passed in 2009, I think zero dinars in the budget. In Belgrade, not a single single dollar on this basis was in receipt of the state. Practically, the only source is the budget, and the budget is filled by all citizens. That is why this is a law in which most in Serbia are solidarity with those who are victims of injustice 70 years ago, and that is what has to be said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60605	Thank you. The right to replicate the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, and the MP Laslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60606	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I would also like to give a brief reference to the presentation of Prime Minister or Vice-President Djelic and Mr Varga and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic and I will try it all in two minutes. First, me and the SRS don't think that the Serbian people and Serbia should be held accountable for the holocausts that took place in World War II, because Serbia and the Serbian people did not participate in this. The claim for damages to holocaust victims should be made to the independent state of Croatia and Germany, above all. As for Mr. Varga's exposure, I find it odd that when it comes to Hungarians then we should insist on the principle of individual responsibility, then not all Hungarians are guilty of a raid, then not all Hungarians are guilty of crimes in the Frog, Churug, Mosharin, etc. I agree they didn't, but why, then, Mr. Varga, did you vote for all of us Serbs to be responsible for the crimes that happened or allegedly happened in Srebrenica? Why didn't you insist on the principle of individual responsibility rather than collective responsibility? I don't understand how when it comes to your people, then not all Hungarians are genocide, and when it comes to Serbs, then we Serbs need to prove that we are not genocide because the assumption that we are, and that assumption is recorded in the Srebrenica conviction declaration. Let's be fair to all the nations who had victims in World War II and in the 1990s. Then let's adopt either the principle of individual or the principle of collective responsibility. If not all Hungarians are collectively responsible, and I agree that they are not, there were many Hungarians who supported the anti-fascist movement, I am absolutely aware of the facts, but how is it possible that all of us Serbs are responsible? We, Malten, have declared our children responsible for the crimes in Srebrenica. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60607	The People's MP Lasslo Varga. Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60608	I don't know if I have two minutes or four, since I have two replicas? (President: Two minutes. One at a time. ) I must admit that I am extremely sad that in 2011, the most liberal party in Serbia pulled the parallel between the members of the Soviet Union who were tried in Nuremberg, and on the other hand those who found themselves in Subotica on 12 or 13 April 1941, with their own consent, whether they wanted to or forced to mobilize. I don't think that parallel just can stand and I really don't understand that parallel. I previously expected you to support us in the position that it would be time for those two decisions on collective guilt, which I quoted and cited the exact date and quoted two sentences from those decisions, to put those decisions out of force, because it would be some promotion of European values. On the other hand, I would ask you to check with European institutions, is this principle of collective guilt, which is promoted by the government's original proposal, acceptable for European institutions? I would really ask you, because I claim that this is not in line with European principles and that you will get that answer from European institutions. As far as, and indeed only five more sentences to Mr. Martinovic. It's your right to read that Srebrenica Declaration that way. We didn't understand that declaration that way. That's why I was just talking about, that in the debate on that declaration we were just talking about, that the principle of collective guilt is unacceptable and that we are still saying it and we are going to insist on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60609	Two minutes. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60610	Mr. Varga, the issue of liberalism has no touch points with those thesis that you're talking about. What is your assumption that we should show understanding for members of some occupation army in Serbia? We don't have any understanding of anything like that. In no way did I equate the duchy Hungarians with the Soviet Union. I can't think of that. I wasn't talking about the duchy Hungarians. I was talking about the occupation forces and I counted the five occupation forces that worked on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and asked Mr Djelic -- why the government has put such a thing into law through the amendment now, because it is not the place in this law. Just like this debate should not be governed by the restitution law, but by the rehabilitation law. That's the darkness. What you're looking for, you have in the Constitution, both in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. In no way do we equalise the duchy Hungarians with the enemies of Serbia. It just doesn't occur to us to agree with the idea that in this assembly, because it takes 126 MPs, we can all turn our heads. Is there any fundamental value of Serbia in the 21st century? Is that antifascism? I think so. Is that the fundamental value of modern Europe? Yes, it is. How do you become a member of the occupation forces? That's what I don't want to say to you at all. If anyone thinks he's being forced to move, let them prove it in court. There are laws of this country that make it possible for him to do so. This is collective abolization. Here in this amendment, it doesn't appear that anyone who proves that he was forced to be mobile, that he didn't want to participate in armed acts, that he was a cook, that he didn't commit any crime. No, but all members of the occupation forces, please, in Serbia for four years you were an occupation army, now, 70 years after that, we need to reward you for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60611	Two minutes, MP. Thank you. The People's MP Lasslo Varga. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60612	You were talking about not pulling that parallel. However, if a little more detail were to be made of your sentences, then the parallel was, unfortunately, insulated. Indeed, you did not pull the parallel between the members of the Soviet Union and the occupation forces, or the duchy Hungarians, but you pulled the parallel between the Soviets and those of the duchy Hungarians who, forced or not, were forced to be members of those forces. Unfortunately, it doesn't stand. On the other hand, if this provision were to remain unchanged, it would practically mean eliminating the possibilities of those who, perhaps individually responsible or not, prove that it is not the same. They'd just be automatically turned off. That face category would be automatically disabled. We're asking that it doesn't happen and that no one automatically shuts down. If punished, then in the rehabilitation process let him prove his innocence. If he's not innocent, then of course he shouldn't have the opportunity to apply for rehabilitation. If it proves, for example, that on the basis of collective guilt as a child, because these decisions result in all children being found to be collectively guilty, if it is found that no responsibility has been given to that person, then it would be completely incorrect and unacceptable, automatically, to exclude the entire categorism of those persons from this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60613	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic and MP Cedomir Jovanovic. You have two minutes on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't want to go into any historical controversy to Mr. Vargo, but I think this is more of a perception thing. Mr. Varga, for you, the Srebrenica Declaration is not a collective condemnation of Serbia and the Serb people. The SRS considers it the opposite. If you believe that there is an individual responsibility for what happened or allegedly happened in Srebrenica, and what happened there, no one yet knows reliably, then, as far as I understand in the legal system, individual responsibility is not determined in the National Assembly but in the court. If you bring a declaration where you politically condemn something that happened in Srebrenica, and it is reportedly happening, it means that you want to impose on Serbia and the Serbian people the burden of historical responsibility for what happened or allegedly happened. As for the second part of your presentation, let's consult some historical literature. When it comes to the duchy Germans, in 99% of the cases, the Germans in Vojvodina served both the Vermacht and the SS troops voluntarily. When it comes to Hungarians, there are already certain nuances. For example, there was, as far as I know history, a Partisan squad made up of Hungarians from Vojvodina and Slavonia, I think it was called "Shandor Petefi", who actively participated in the fight against the Germans. When it comes to the Duke Germans, it's a matter perfectly clear, through Kulturbund, and then after the occupation troops came, 99% of the Germans in Vojvodina volunteered, from ideals, served both the Vermacht and the SSS troops. Just to remind you, it was the 7th Soviet division "Prince Eugen", which committed mass crimes on the Serbian people in Kozara in 1942, was just recruited by the duchy Germans.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60615	Thank you. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60616	Mr. Varga, in your interpretation you went too far. What you're talking about has no more touch points with my question that I've asked Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, who is the law here. I asked the Vice-President why the amendment to the provision was very clear, with the right to return of property without members of the occupation forces, in such a way that this right is not foreign citizens, members of the occupation forces. As a result, those who are citizens of Serbia can absolutely achieve that right, because that is the conclusion that stems from this amendment. I wasn't talking about forced-mobilized Hungarians or anyone else. If you want that problem you're talking about to solve, make it an amendment. It is known which municipalities were inhabited by the duchy Hungarians, during which period they were mobilized, etc. Write down that amendment and you'll always get LDP support. It's not a dispute, if it's about those who are victims of a war. But don't expect us to just agree to this campaign to relativize antifascism in Serbia. Because this is an introduction to a discussion of the Rehabilitation Act. There are already laws in this country that get legal answers to these questions. If you want to get an answer to the question of those who are victims of forced mobilization in World War II, then write down that amendment and we'll talk about it. But this amendment has nothing to do with it. This opens the door for all who were members of the occupation forces in Serbia, who were citizens of Serbia, to exercise as much rights as those who were intellectuals in Serbia, and because they were ideological opponents of the authorities after 1945. years lost without their property. They're not the same facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60617	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Djordje Milicevic would have the right to speak as president of the parliamentary group. But in the electronic system, MP Ivan Andric was registered. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60618	Article 107. - a violation of dignity. I'm talking to you, not any of the MPs. Simply, the violation of dignity, I think, is inadmissible, as well as that this debate, which was intended to correct one historical injustice, is turned into an accusation that is very dangerous and that in our not so long ago history has led to a lot of bad consequences. At no time will the LDP give up its right to call the occupation forces an occupation force, and we expect you to protect us if someone puts in the wrong way what we said and tries to equate members of a national minority living in Serbia today into the same basket with some who were occupying forces. Please, something like this cannot be allowed as a way of debate in the Assembly. Our political struggle can be political, but we cannot allow any moment to equalize those who sacrificed their lives for this country by fighting Fascism and Nazism with those who were allegedly forced to fight them. We will survive on such an idea. It's the only idea in this morally broken society that has to survive even us here. Please don't let any misunderstandings that weren't space here allow. We do not think that all members of the Hungarian people were members of the occupation forces. These were some of the members of the Hungarian people, and today we will not allow their justice on grounds that are not in line...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60619	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP, there is no breach of article 107, but there is no explanation in your explanation for the event which would make it clear that I hurt Article 107. There are abuses of the Rules of Procedure because you use damage to your Rules of Procedure as a replica. If you consider my session to be in accordance with Article 27, which is that at a session like this through replicas, all MPs are allowed to oppose arguments and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I can only inform you that in cases where I consider that custody is in order to deserve the giving of replicas, especially when the replica is caused first, by mentioning the political party, and secondly by quoting the speech of the other MPs, these replicas will be given. You would have also received a replica only if you had asked for a word at an appropriate time, not to abuse the Rules of Procedure by speaking of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. MP Gjorge Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60620	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Djelic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is right when Mr. Andric says that this debate will not achieve what is the goal of adopting this legislative proposal that we are talking about today, which is the elimination of historical injustice. To be perfectly clear, given that the amendment to Article 5 has been said recently, this amendment is unacceptable for the SPS-JS parliamentary club as well. We believe that the weight of this question is not correctly understood and for us, everything that can be defined as demeaning is unacceptable, anything that can be defined as devalving the antifascist fluids of this society. An amendment like this, I'd say, on a small door and in a unfair way, first of all before rehab, allows for a return of property, which is certainly not good. Mr Djelic said in his opening statement, and we also fully agree there, several essential reasons why it is very important for a comprehensive issue to be settled in Serbia today. First, by adopting a comprehensive, real, fair, fair and quality legal proposal, trust in the rule of law is restored, one long-standing historical injustice is corrected. That is morally justified, above all, according to those citizens of Serbia who expect compensation, and these today are just over 100,000. Then, the restitution law is certainly a clear signal to investors, as it should allow for greater security from the aspect of property and property relations, which has been in practice in the past has been a hindrance to a greater inflow of foreign investment in Serbia. Of course, in order to become a candidate for EU membership, Serbia should meet the recommendations made by the European Commission in the November 2010 report, including the adoption of a restitution law. On the way to European integration, the adoption of this law is the realisation of the most important reform programme that leads to the realisation of the final goal, first to obtain candidate status and then to EU membership. Bearing in mind these reasons, it is very clear that the adoption of this legislative proposal at this time is both necessary and necessary and inevitable. With that in mind, we believe that it provides in principle correct solutions for the return of assets in natural form, i.e. the provision of compensation in all specific forms of status, as well as the holder of property, conditioned by the financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia. So this proposal cannot be defined as ideal. We are starting a process in which it is not possible, and it is not realistic for everyone to be satisfied, but it is important that the proposal comes from the real possibilities of the state. There may be some other fairer, fairer solutions at this point, but the question is how realistic they are, how feasible they are right now. Essentially, it is primarily for the process of restitution to begin, that the basic procedure for restitution should be regulated by law, and the effects I am convinced will be seen in the next period of time. The draft law on the return of the seized property and the compensation defines the basis, subject matter, procedure, jurisdiction, as well as the time limits for the return of assets in natural form, as well as the provision of compensation. The bill promoter, as is said among other things, provides for two forms of return of property, in a natural form, wherever possible or in the form of compensation by giving government bonds with a delayed payment condition. The applicant's intensity, as stated among other things in the opening statement, is the return of assets in a natural form where possible. However, by analysing the solutions contained in this proposal, it seems that the financial form of return is still preferred, and for this purpose, the state plans, as far as we can hear, to allocate funds to up to two billion euros, which are large funds. Since, with all the legal restrictions on the return of the taken property in natural form, and given that, therefore, the process of changing the titleholders of property by crossing state property into public, somehow narrowed down the kind of immovableity that will return to nature, therefore, is a real question – what is really possible to bring back today. The promoter did not prescribe in the event of a return of assets in natural form the possibility of restoring other immovableity of the same value, which in practice is also quite feasible in our opinion. It also does not foresee the possibility of a mixed form of return, in the event that there are more requirements for restoring immovableity some can be returned in some natural form, some requirements can again not be realised, it is not possible to return in natural form, but only in the form of compensation. Therefore, what is the procedure in such cases, given that in practice such cases are both possible and certain. So if a member is, say, Article 16(3) refers to a mixed form of return, then he said somehow inexplicable and vague, he needs to be given more attention and to specify the conditions and manner of this return of property. It also seems to us that it is not sufficiently defined whether a financial maximum of 500,000 euros, as it has been said, refers only to a financial or natural form of return, given that jurisdiction and obligation has been established, as it is specified, by the authorities to determine the value of any immovable property that should be returned. The important question is whether Serbia could increase the level of public debt over the next few years because of the restitution, and the issue of macroeconomic stability is also being raised on the issue. There is no doubt that the impact on the market is expected, on demand, or pressure and impact on consumption. On the other hand, there are also possible positive effects, such as increasing entrepreneurship capacity, creating new small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing agricultural production, etc. It should be pointed out that by this period it has not been completed, although 15 years ago, the process of forming a single record of state property, i.e. public property, which, in our opinion, forms the basis of the restitution in natural form. The bill stipulates that the former owner does not have the right to return property in the event of an expropriation of an object, after a certain period, for which a fee has been fixed in cash or other matters and rights. That's how it's defined in law. We feel that this solution may be unrealistic, because the determination of the fee does not necessarily mean its payment. It's more realistic, say, that it says, "for which compensation is paid in money or in the form of giving other things or rights." We suggest that the legislator consider this question. Article 8(1) The bill lays down criteria for priorities for the return of assets in natural form from the Public Property Fund, by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province and units of local self-government. However, all of this is absolutely compromised, I would say, and the Fund is reduced by the provision of article 77. The draft law on public property, which is also the item of the agenda of the current assembly session. That legal solution creates the possibility of major obstruction and abuse by the autonomous province and local self-government in restoring immovableity in natural form, since the acquisition and registration of public property rights by the autonomous province and local self-government, and thus protects the principle of protection of the stickers. This view introduces an exception to the overall legal solution and concepts and makes it legal for someone else to value without the procedure and time-limits the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions, as well as for someone else to unequivocally determine, on the basis of the submitted request and documentation, the return of assets in natural form. According to the proposal for a law on public property, public property is, quite precisely, obtained by enrolling public property rights in a public book on immovable property and rights on them. So relatively quickly, depending on the urgency of the applicant and the enrolment authority. The bill, which we are talking about today, also defines the deadlines, by Article 42(1). The request for reimbursement shall be submitted within two years of the date of publication of the public call, therefore, taking into account the scope and type of documentation required, in order to be complete, and that, after the submission of the request, it shall be returned to it within three months from the date of entry into force of the Republic Property Directorate. Article 63(1) of the Agency’s work set out in 1.1.2012. The 46th deadline for the adoption of a solution, at the full request of the Agency, shall be six months. When it comes to complex objects, a year. It follows the right of appeal, the introduction of a administrative dispute, the possibility of termination of proceedings. So, all of this suggests that the immovableity can become a public property far before the end of the proceedings and the return of property and damages can be sold and the exclusive property from the natural form of return, even before the adoption of claims, which is certainly not good. Then all the burden of fulfilling the legal obligation in this case would fall on the only obligor, which is the Republic of Serbia. They are unclear, I must say, the provisions of Article 20(1) and, in the context of Article 26(2), the question of whether the tenant of the refunded agricultural land has an obligation to return the same within three years or until the end of the lease agreement. So, what if it happens, and it's a common practice, that the contract is concluded indefinitely, and the former owner is a farmer. It's uncertain when and if he'll come into possession of his land. When it comes to the exemption from return, it should be conditioned that the exemption from return applies only to legal objects. If they happen not to be legalised, investors should be obliged to legalise them, among other things they should also consider income that can be collected from legalisation. It is interesting, for example, that Article 27 of position 1 generally, among others, does not provide for immovableities, such as business facilities, business premises, as a subject of return, but these immovableities in Article 28(1) of this law are mentioned not as a rule, but as an exception. It should be noted that with a huge fund of business space, which has just been acquired on the basis of Article 2, by renting them or by giving them for use, public enterprises that are founded by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government, have been able to collect income on this basis. This fund, it seems to us, is somehow the most real and operational solution for the return of assets in natural form. It is a property that, after the law on public property has entered into force, becomes a public property. The dilemma is that, if they returned to the former owner in a natural form, they would be assessed at market value, and otherwise, in the case of privatisation of public enterprises, the shareholder of actions or shares will not achieve or gain the real value of the public goods involved. The question that is also of paramount importance to us is, in fact, what about the companies that are privatised and in their composition have assets that can be the subject of the dispute, as well as what about the companies that are in bankruptcy, are in the Agency's portfolio, and in their composition they have assets sought by former owners? It is also very important to prevent the sale of assets that are subject to restitution at this time, as the time vacuum can be misused in various ways until the adoption of this legislative proposal. When it comes to identifying the value of immovableity, I would like to say very briefly that we consider it necessary to define certain instructions, that certain regulations should be defined in order to create a unique methodology for the determination of values binding on the bodies that in this particular case carry out an assessment. I would like to make another suggestion when it comes to Article 62(1). This provision is good, but it seems ineffective and inconclusive in practice, because the authority which exercises the right to remain immobilised has no right, nor in this legal setting can it have knowledge of the availability of the property which is subject to return and cannot prevent it from being available. It would be good, let's say, that the Republic Property Directorate undertakes that within a shorter period of time than, say, 10 to 15 days from the date of entry into force of this law, to make a request to the competent service for a note of the withdrawn property, which would be required to make a note in a shorter period of time. What would this mean? A ban on availability, alienation and entry and, in a broader sense, would retain a fund of assets which would be returned in natural form after the proceedings carried out and which, irrespective of the change in the status of the property from the state to the public and the change of its holder in such a specific case, would be protected by our view. This would prevent and curb a number of abuses and also significantly relieve the only debtor, which is the Republic of Serbia. Our significant objection to the content of the law is the fact that in the proposed proposal there is no adequate solution for the issue of the tenant's right to indefinite time and owners of those apartments. Namely, the owners of dwellings, which are used by tenants for an indefinite period of time, cannot be returned to the state, that is, they cannot exercise the right to restitution because a tenant right of property rights is acquired and cannot be unlawfully taken away. In order to legally address this problem, the text of the law requires the introduction of legal provisions concerning both the right of the state and the right of holders to an indefinite period of time. This is an extremely important question if there is a fact that in Serbia today there are about 10,000 holders of housing rights and that there are a large number of owners who would like to return property to the restitution process. This complex matter has been given a certain attention to by the SPS Parliament Club and we have submitted a set of amendments that we in some way want to fill in, therefore, this legal void. So the correcting of the consequences of historical injustice by law is very difficult, objectively very difficult, because the property was taken away 70 years ago. There are many factors that we think are important and important when it comes to the successful implementation of the restitution. Are all the factors and assumptions needed in Serbia at this time? Unfortunately, they still haven't, but it's a clear need and the inevitableness to finally put an end to this issue in Serbia, in a regulatory sense and to start a process of realization, which is extremely important. That is why we do not view this legal proposal within the Parliament club as trading any promises or opportunity for political marketing and collecting political points. Since it is about its own matter and it may not be a good thing that this issue is later regulated by a number of sublaws, a number of regulations, decisions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, we would like to appeal to the promoters to also look at amendments to the SPS-JS parliamentary club, as well as amendments to other parliamentary clubs, precisely in order to get as high-quality legal text as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60621	Eighteen minutes used from the time of the MP's group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60622	Thank you. Of course, someone would say, it's high time to find before the National Assembly a law on restitution of seized property. As the lead in today's debate, Minister Bozidar Djelic said, the subject here is the correction of an injustice that was done long ago, one not a small number of faces and a long time ago 1945, but also in 1944 and 1941, 1942 and 1943, it is a topic or should be a topic. The problem with passing such a law, unfortunately similar to other situations, is the motivation of the promoters, I do not personally think of Mr Djelic, of course, but of the government as a political team who comes and makes a proposal like this to the National Assembly. Why are we talking about motivation? Because the thing is very simple. What a motivation such a law. It is hard for us to believe that truly altruism or empathy among the members of the government governs them by the need to propose a law to correct a historical injustice, just as I do not show empathy to citizens because of the injustice that has been happening these years, and this is a lack of life, a bad life, and thanks primarily to the incompetence or deliberate obstruction of the economy by that same government. Well, since those two things were mutually conditioned, I listed them as examples of motive. So what's the motive for passing a law like this? Of all what the minister said, I trust him for one thing only, that the only real motive for the pressure suffered by the EU to pass this regulation as soon as possible is one of the preconditions for gaining candidate properties. It's the only true truth, all those fairy tales that this law has or that there's a desire for this law to solve the question of fair compensation for the persons who deserve it fall into the water. It is, of course, easy to prove by analysing the provisions of the law itself, where it is simply seen that it is brought, again I say, with one missing motive, in a way that leaves a series of questions, and God can also perform a series of findings from what is seen here. Let's figure things out first. So the first question is, can the state, should the state, and can the state correct such an injustice? We think in the DSS, that the state must and that the authorities in Serbia must, have a moral obligation to correct the injustice that has been done since 1941, 1942, 1943, 1945, 1945 and 1946 and later years, after the release made to a large number of Serbian residents. It is one moral obligation, it has nothing to do with EU pressure, it has nothing to do with the issue of candidate status and our obligations to the EU. In 2006, the Law on the return of property to churches and the way and style in which it was written points to one direction in which it was considered when it came to the possibility of return of property. Meanwhile, and later, when it comes to the expectation of the general law, a law has been passed that has a polling character, not as my previous Cedomir Jovanovic said it was one of the ways to return. No, it was not a process for the return of property, it had an investigative character and the goal of the state was to determine how many possible, potential requirements for the return of property and what the structure of that property was. In advance, when the state passed those laws, we knew in advance that the law couldn't give us to the end precise data, to give us precise data. It just wasn't possible. It's a good thing now, as a condition for the return of property, there's no question of whether anyone acted according to the rules of the law at the time and reported the property. Of course, it's a good thing it's not being set as a condition, but that law had to exist at the time to determine the total mass. Then why isn't he here now? Simply because the state was in such a situation, one of the predecessors said that, the debt of five billion euros to Serbian citizens on different grounds, the economic situation we were in, the state simply couldn't get the strength to start the process. Secondly, restitution itself is a complex process and the adoption of restitution laws implies a long and careful analysis of the way in which vomiting, restitutions would be carried out. So we on one side were a little surprised at the speed this law was passed and passed. I know that this has been done before and that certain members of the government have been thinking for years about this law, but the solutions that have been applied in this law seem to be solutions that, in an easy and simple way, a very difficult issue is being solved. After all, we can't help but feel that in one easy and simple way you came to this problem. What's the score? The result is that we have received a law aimed at starting the restitution process as soon as possible and that the issue of restitution in Serbia is removed as soon as possible from the agenda. Motivation for such a thing is obvious and we have said this, it is one pressure to pass regulation in the area because of EU candidacy, and motivation, to remove it from the agenda as soon as possible, is very simple. This government and the arbiters here in that government don't see the strength to carry out this kind of procedure at all. That's why certain restrictions came up. These restrictions on restitution concern the total amount of funds that the state in Serbia can repay, and here the minister convinces us that this amount that has been entered here, which is later divided into bond users, the amount that the government has reached, by seriously calculating the country's economic power to recover. Mr. Djelic, you will never convince us of that, because you will never be able to come out here with an exact bill which is why that amount is so much. It's alchemy, you can't come up with that by convincing us or coming out with the numbers, convincing us that this amount is really that big. It can be smaller, and it can be four times larger. How do we know that now? That leads us to the next conclusion, that this whole law was written, that's one completely arbitrary thing, as a task, to get it done as soon as possible and off the agenda. You're the speed or need to respond to someone's pressure, put it ahead of the principle of justice, that's far below the principle of justice. The principle of justice here is not in the second place, but in the third place. This speaks of the motivation of the legislator. Let's get to the specifics, first question is the quantum property and circle of the person who has the right to vomit. Because of the citizens of Serbia, so people know what I'm doing, because it's said that these laws antagonise society, and antagonism always stands between those who have nothing and have nothing to return to them, compared to those whose ancestors once had something, unjustly taken away and have the right to return something to them. It is natural antagonism, but the obligation of the government and our MPs is to explain to people what it is, those who do not today, and those are the most in Serbia, they want for their children to have the next day, although some of their children earn something, do something to themselves, provide an apartment, two or three, a good car, establish a small private business, eventually manages to come to it, provide something for their children, imagine, dear citizens, that the next day some senseless government takes away such a thing, but something that you have bloody tormented, not something that is donated, something you have extruded, something that would be said in the jargon, but something that is bloody torment acquired and taken away. The balance in society must return, things must return to stage through such compensation, simply for society to function further. The second thing, the state has come into possession of assets that will soon become public property with three types of titlemakers. This property is such a character, that tax is not paid on it, if it is not put into some function that is profitable, the state has nothing then, and if it is placed in the function of private ownership, from that moment on, if nothing else, the state is gaining, or local self-government or the province is entitled to collect taxes. If nothing else at all. If we ask ourselves what is the way in which we will satisfy the interests of resolving the issue of justice, to address the issue of return of property to those who are violently or unfairly deprived, then we must bear in mind that the return of those assets automatically means the possibility for the state on the other hand to collect income. It's something we have to keep in mind when we're talking about the power of the state. Secondly, when we talk about the power of the state to solve the issue of vomiting, let's not be hypocritical, the state has the power to restore what it owns. The state may not have the money, there may be no revenue in the budget. The economy, the economy of a society, and so Serbia can find itself in a serious crisis, but the property we're talking about is here, not in the sky, not someone took it away, and it didn't fly away, it's mostly here. Restitution can only be limited to one single fact, which is that it exists in the legal system, and the legal system existed in post-war Yugoslavia, whatever it was, could have liked it or not. In order to ensure one principle, this is the principle of protection of acquired rights, because if we are to violate that principle in the future, then neither the restitution nor the principle of justice has any meaning. So, for the sake of legal certainty, we have to leave certain dignitaries who have acquired their rights to property, which was once taken away in certain cases, in order to respect the principle of justice as we want to apply that principle of justice here when we return the property. It's the only restriction. There are other restrictions in that sense we shouldn't have. However, you have made this law a serious restriction, so you have said that property can be returned in natural form and until you have submitted an amendment concerning the composition of the arondation, I see it here in front of me, it turns out that only those assets can be returned, specifically property that has been taken away in natural form. If that wasn't the case, then there's the only possibility of cash compensation through that country's bonds. It's in great contradiction with what you're talking about, when it comes to the power of the state to react and correct this injustice. You have limited the total amount of funds to be recovered, you have limited it, so it turns out that none of those who seek return of property can be compensated in excess of 500 000 euros. You claim the state has no money based on parameters that you cannot prove today. Of course, the state doesn't have any money today, maybe not even next to pay back that amount to those to whom it owes, of course it doesn't, but you don't make a law here that needs to be applied and solved in two years. We've been talking about a much longer period here. You have no proof, Mr. Djelic, of what you claim to be, but you have made a restriction, and you claim there is no place to replace the property. Replacement of assets or so-called assets. The substitution is a method that can also be damaged by someone who cannot be returned to the property, a concrete property that was taken away at the time. You know that very well. You're the kind of replacement you've predicted through this amendment to Article 24(2) where you've predicted a combination of arondation. So it came to your head at one point that some things can still be solved by some sort of substitution, it's not exactly a substitute in the right sense of that word, but in fact, it is a replacement. Here you wrote in your explanation that at least 25% of the land can return to nature in this way. Well done. Your resistance to the exchange of assets as a form of return, comes from the prejudice that, perhaps not, but is not a good enough reason, in the process of returning in case of replacement, there will be problems with former owners, or their successors, that there will be a lot of dissatisfaction, a lot of strangers and disputes with this in connection, that the state can't handle it. Wait, guys, you're saying that it's easier for you to give money than to get into a dispute with former owners who will eventually be court-broken in one way or another and where the simple issue of restitution will be resolved. What you put in front of what, that's amazing in this story. Secondly, here in this law, when it comes to the way we return, let's see the extent of our return, let's go back to that, what should we return? You need to get back everything that's been taken away. Since when, you say since 9 March 1945. Mr. Djelic, I have to tell you, I'm only going to read you two things, and there are more, two decisions that have been made, one November 11, 1944, and the other one, December 11, 1944. The first is called the decision of the presidency of the Great Antifascist National Liberation Assembly of Serbia, and the second is called the Decision of the Antifascist Assembly of People's Liberation of Serbia. Both decisions contain provisions which have general legal standards on the confiscation of assets. On the basis of these decisions, the People's Liberation Committees made decisions on the confiscation of assets. By reading Article 1 of this Act, all persons who have been taken away from the property in this way are completely excluded from the restitution. Why? Have you thought about it? What are we going to do with the victims of the Holocaust? We said this would solve a special law, given the circumstances that many victims of the Holocaust, thought of Jews in Serbia, were not covered by the restitution, but many victims of the Holocaust do not even have successors today. What have you solved? You've decided to form this, as you call in Article 5, a memorial centre to educate the management fund by setting it up with a special law. Of what means? If it is a memorial centre or a fund, the state of Serbia is obliged to do so by its means. What does that have to do with this? If that's special, don't even announce it here. If you want to solve the question, solve it. There's a story on your thin feet, reading all these numbered provisions you're referring to in Article 2. The thin story is that it will be easy to solve the problem of property taken away by exiled or shooting Jews in Serbia, which someone later bought from natural persons, a Serbian citizen at that time, or Yugoslavia. How are you going to solve this problem and it's real? One more thing, this amendment of yours, which you submitted to Article 5 of the Law, which speaks of who does not have the right to return property or damages, so you said it could not be the natural persons of foreign citizens, or legal heirs who, without the existence of an international contract, have been compensated the right to return property recognised by the State. It's okay. You said, those who were compensated and took over from the state on the basis of an international contract, but you said three -- a person who was a member of the occupation forces operating in Serbia's territory, which is quite fine. How can we expect a member of the occupation forces to be returned today to the property, that is, his successor? That's insane. Then you set up an amendment before the Assembly in which you say, yes, that person who was a member of the occupation forces, but a foreign citizen. What do you mean by that, that those persons who are not foreign citizens, the heirs of those who were not foreign citizens were neither today nor today, who participated in the occupation forces in Serbia, have the right to regain property? Well, it's discrimination against those who are foreign citizens because they're not members of the occupation forces. Does that mean we should bring back the assets to the occupiers, the Italians, the Hungarians, the Bulgarians, the Germans and everyone else? Well, what does that look like? Occupiers, members of the occupation forces? That's what matters, even if he's a Serb. If you understand me, even if he's a Serb, I don't care. Of course, the members of the occupation forces aren't members of the Chetnik movement, it's a special story about the Rehabilitation Act, but it's a shame we didn't discuss the law first, so let's know who he's entitled to. After all, since I can't complete the story, my time has run out, I'm going to instruct you to listen to my colleagues from the Parliament club for the other objections we have on this bill, but this was sort of short of what concerns the very problem of the law that lies ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60623	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60624	Mr. Aligrudic, I will consider carefully the further course of the discussion, including the amendments your party will make to this law. I listened very carefully, and I think there would be more credibility to hear it from the party that was in the opposition. The fact is that your party has been in power almost constantly for the last 10 years and the fact is that your party's president has been Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for four years, so if we have to compare and use your parallels and say that the result depends on motivation, given that you've led the government for four years and you haven't passed the law, then your motivation was zero. So when we talk about restitution, I think this morning's debate has shown how much this issue should allow national reconciliation, at least to contribute to erasing what was ideologically, what was criminally not deleted. Crime has nothing to do with ideology, although sometimes it comes from it. In any case, what matters is to pass the best possible law. We're very open to this debate, but we'll agree that this is the first government that has shown that motivation, and real motivation is manifested through actions, and the fact that we're here today and we're discussing the law on restitution shows that this is the first government that has this motivation and that power. Thank you. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60625	Before I give my word to MP Milos Aligrudic, he is entitled to a two-minute replica, thanks to the Deputy Prime Minister for allowing me to make amends for the National Assembly's stenogram, since he said amendments to the bill are submitted by political parties. The constitution is forbidden. Amendments are submitted by MPs, individually or in groups, as they wish, by the Government, by the protection of citizens and by other constitutions prescribed by the competent authorities. He can't do it on behalf of someone. Only a MP can do it. National MP Milos Aligrudic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60626	Mr. Djelic, as far as motivation is concerned, I'm saying it again. You are not motivated as a government to pass this law at all, to propose it to the Assembly. The only motivation is the pressure of the European Commission, my people. The physionomy of this law and its contents prove it best. When you're talking about the government where the DSS took part, I need to remind you that during that government, that list of assets was passed. He was one of the most important steps, without that law, nothing further would be done, or, without that law, you could pass a law like this, which falls far below what needs to be done. You could have done without that law, really, I'll give you that. But in 2006, a law was passed on the return of property to churches and religious communities. The fact that there was no political will for this law to be implemented to this day, I'm sorry, but in that government, it wasn't the only one who was DSS. The Ministry of Finance did not hold the DSS in that government. When it comes to forms of return, which you didn't look back on, I have to tell you until these two minutes are up, the substitution has its place and value. If it were easy to bring, it would have been long ago. The problem is you didn't even want to think about it. Now you boast in front of the citizens and in front of those who need to return the property that you are God knows what you have done, and you have done them a bear favor and every one of them who knows how to read what you are about to adopt knows what I'm talking about. Well, it was better to wait another six months or a year for this question to be settled in a fair way than to work on pressure like this, as you do, with that kind of motivation to do something that doesn't suit the needs of this society. That's what this is about. As far as the replacement is concerned, just so you know, the replacement is doing its regular job as the Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia. They have a parameter and the way they do it. If they can in their regular business, the state can also come up with a way of substituting, even in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60627	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60628	The problem with the facts is that they're stubborn. I didn't say you didn't do anything. Your motivation was enough to do a survey. That's it. That was the motivation. If we could pass this law without that record, we could, but I don't deny the fact that it was useful and that the 2006 law applies. Look, in the law, at least on two occasions, it's useful. The first is that on the day of entry into force of this law, it will serve that the Republic Property Directorate shall issue paper to those parts of the State who would like to be entered into the property, whether or not that property is sought. So that's what he's using. I admit that this law was as useful as the Church Restitution Act, because one number of mechanisms, one number of things that happened proved to be effective on the issue of cohesion, for example, and some that were not effective, such as replacements, because five years of application of that law did not bring one single solution to the replacement type. Finally, when we talk about motivation, the fact is that for church restitution, a year when the president of your party was prime minister, the director was not appointed. We have a similar problem now, he's in V.D. The condition again, which is not good, but as it was in the first year, when it was established and it was during that government. After that, when Dr. Cvetkovic became Prime Minister, he was appointed, we now need to appoint a director for the Restitution Agency to ensure that he is created. So the facts are facts. There are those who have the motivation to do the survey. There are those who are able, with all the difficulties that this entails, because it involves the responsibility to effectively implement the law and to measure the success of what we propose, not only in the discourse, but in reality, it is whether the restitution will happen or not. Restitution, when this House votes this law, when we step out of the survey period, when we enter into real procedures and when we enter real procedures for restitution of the return of property, in the restitution of the issue of bonds, it will become a reality for 150 thousand families in our country, and that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60629	Right on the line. National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60630	Since you haven't made any arguments and facts, you've already given your grade, I'll return your assessment. So in math, zero is always greater than any number in the negative. You know? What you've given us here is a clear minus. That's the thing that doesn't solve the problem. It, in practice, makes fools of people, especially those who have certain rights, to accept in the final line financial compensation from 500 000 euros. Would you personally agree that the state owes you nine billion of something, and pay you back 500 grand? You wouldn't. You don't recommend it to others, it's not fair, and it's not fair, especially since this isn't about any original accumulation of capital, kidnapping or tycoons, it's about people who have bloody suffering, what they've acquired. Do not honor Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS for passing this law, because you know very well what environment we have worked in, what partners and what problems we have faced. So you need to know one more moment, which is that the state you're talking about, in which you participated and were with us, was in dangerous and serious current debt to citizens based on old foreign currency savings and other things. This goes with certain steps we respect. We don't insult you for not bringing it in three years ago, it's not the subject of our conversation with you, you twist it. We resent you for the content of this law. We think you want to get rid of him and do some damage to those who need to be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60631	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60632	I'm just reminding you of the fact. No one can say that Serbia has no problems today. At a time when Mr. Kostunica was prime minister, he was on stage the biggest growth in the economy of Europe and the world. I'm glad the DSS is giving itself credit for the world's growth. That's really great. This is the one I've heard, and I've been in economics for 30 years. It's a good thing you made it as DSS to ensure strong growth in the world. That's fantastic. When you know that, go ahead, secure huge economic growth in the world. That's fantastic. But let's be more serious. The reality is that right now, and especially in the second quarter of this year and it was seen in 2009, and that the Republic of Serbia is not at all guilty, we have a decline in economic growth. We've got a lot of economies going down in the world. We have serious difficulties. There were many who said it was no time for restitution, that it should be delayed until the issue of economic growth was resolved. That it is not the time when public finances are under this much pressure all over the world, including in Serbia, to go to solve this issue. We said the time has finally come for this issue to be resolved. When we talk about the amount of funds, of course it is not an arbitrary figure, it is the subject of a serious analysis of the sustainability of the external debt and the internal Republic of Serbia, in any case, of the debt reputed in euro, which we have conducted together with the NBS, which we have conducted together with our partners from the EU and with the IMF. Two billion euros represents 6% of GDP and that is the maximum amount. We asked to maximise through these discussions everything that could be returned, because we are aware that there should be compensation to be as much as possible. That's the maximum amount we've agreed on within the program with the IMF. It's a maximum amount that won't compromise our country's liquidity and creditworthiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60633	Right on line, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60634	Now, let me tell you right now, I'm not going to replicate any more of what you've said to me since I'm tired and I can't really talk about this anymore. I have to tell you the first thing. Economic growth has nothing to do with the restitution, but what you were talking about, and that's a long and percentage of the debt. That's what I was just talking about. I didn't even mention economic growth. You could listen to me while I'm talking. It's not about economic growth. It's about debt. Second. Your observation of economic growth and blame for merit is simply incredible and bordering on political dilentism. You claim that the bad economic situation in Serbia is not your fault, it is SEKA's fault, or I don't know who. Next, of course, to be consistent with yourself, you claim that for economic growth in Serbia at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which was obvious, there is no merit for the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but was simply such a world trend. Look, it's borderlined on political dilentism, what you said, not to mention professionally, which you know very well what I'm talking about. So don't change the thesis. I didn't talk about economic growth, and I didn't bring him into a relationship with restitution. Whatever economic growth or decline is at this point, the restitution needs to be brought. I was talking about the assessment of the debt and the possibility of the total debt, given the work to be done, being assessed at the given moment. It's a brake job. What a black economic growth, it's a variable category. In seven years we can be like Sweden, and we can be in an even worse situation. That's a big question. This is about something else entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60635	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60636	Why and how was it possible to talk about restitution a few years ago, and today we are passing a law that is quite superficial, undefined, and will be difficult to implement? I'll tell you my impression of why it's possible. You're used to Serbian citizens making their promise of rights the same as their exercise of rights. Registration of the right to restitution has been accepted as the right to restitution. Today they are aware that the promise is one thing, and the realization of that promise is another. If this is the fault of another government, Mr. Djelic, you too have some personal responsibility, because you were in a government where it was possible to promise 1000 euros in action, although at that point it was clear that it was impossible for the promise of that right to be realised as a real right. No, you didn't participate in the government, you were a candidate at the prime minister's office in that campaign where it was said, and then we saw what was out of that promise and what was left of it. It's been a while since the promise of law could be treated right. What is most controversial in this law, perhaps I would not speak of it in this way, but your attempt to characterise this law as a correction of the injustice in which you have found the right sense of the state and the balance that can be achieved in terms of correcting the injustice and the power of the state to correct that injustice, I think you are too late with this claim. Restitution is done at the time of privatisation and when the acquisitions from privatisation were measured by millions of sums. That's the period you're talking about, when the opportunity to invest in real production is missed, which may perhaps bring long-term or short-term effects, but would definitely have to bring in the possibility of hiring some people, and not just letting go, to create some income, to receive salaries and to generate tax inflows, because sooner or later, one way or another, and this law, like all others, pays Serbian citizens out of their own pocket, filling the budget, because the state is not something that makes money. This money will not be provided by anyone, but by the citizens of Serbia, whether you are talking about compensation in money, or while public enterprises return that property or bear the burden of it. There was someone here uninvited to defend, that at the time when it was supposed to be done, an old foreign currency savings was returned. How and why was that priority assessed? Short and fast effects that will result in good political support in the next election. It was a motive to do first old foreign savings, not both, but to some extent. So whoever's able to propose the law, who has the majority, has determined what the priority was at that point. What do we have left to remember from returning the old foreign savings? You said nicely today – yes, everything was returned, but at another time you also said well that the problem of returning old foreign exchange savings, the money of the Serbian state, indirectly Serbian citizens, was created by the false name National Savings Bank, in fact a private institution, where quite concrete individuals earned huge amounts of money and you forget that this is not a casual phenomenon, but that at the moment when this business was being prepared an unfounded lie, that only some new institution was able to realise the problem of returning old foreign currency savings. You forget that a large bank, which had its headquarters in the city where Mrs. Komic and I live, is no longer a Vojvodjanska banka, and it has a foreign owner, had the capacity to realise the job. Who did you fill your pockets with recklessness, indiscretion and intent? The citizens of Serbia do not care. I ask – do you have the right, after such experiences, to ask the citizens of Serbia to apply again and to provide you with documentation of what the state has taken from them? The fact that you're not the owner of the state that did it doesn't emasculate at all from the responsibility of the current representative of the state. Someone will have to take the consequences of the bad decisions for you tomorrow, the consequences of decisions that may have had good intentions, but they left big holes in the budget. You know perfectly what I'm talking about, the hollow Serbian finances, because of the many printed papers someone needs to cover, with the deadlines of three, six months, a year, two, dinar, foreign currency. So whoever represents the state today, he must, on behalf of the state that took away, sometimes without paper, guarantee citizens justice and vomiting. You can't ask them to pay taxes, even if you do it too quietly, and you say that they are obliged to provide documentation, and you don't say somewhere in the first members that they are not obliged at all, Article 13, you say -- that they will receive documentation from the competent authorities, and you don't say that they won't pay the costs, you don't say that they shouldn't bear any consequences if they don't receive that document in time that they need to register and recover the property. A serious state, and you know a lot of experiences, e.g. In Germany, the citizens said – the state knows what it has taken away from me, it needs to be returned to me, and in the state is that if justice is already done by righteousness and by desire to correct the wrong, it is done in a way that is possible. Are you the state that kept the papers or that kept the papers that she inherited, or did she arrange the papers and records that weren't there? Not one, not the other. You've put a lot of paperwork somewhere. Many documents have disappeared, many archives are "inundated", which prove the rights of citizens or the responsibility of the authorities to violate citizens' rights. Not that it's not enough for you, you're even dating us with one, I don't know what word to find besides a no-good formulation of one who doesn't have the right to restitution, where you say with one single sentence that he will not have the right to restitution, or return property, or compensation in Article 5, that he will not have any members of the occupation forces operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II, as well as his successors. What does SNS have to tell you? My dear gentlemen, you must must add to this Article 5 in point 3 of point 3 that in an undeniable and precise manner the issue of denying vomiting is prescribed because of participation in Serbia's occupation and war actions against Serbia. First of all, you need to determine who should be included as participants or owners of the property to be returned, because many of the owners at the time of the war were in advanced years and did not personally participate in the war activities, but their successors did. Also, under the occupation forces in this regard, the definition should also be extended to perform functions in the authorities and political functions that were in the service of the occupation forces. The most recent example, and I have older ones, the responsibility of such persons has confirmed a series of convictions for war crimes in Nuremberg, as well as the judgments of that so-called so-called. The Hague tribunal, which has condemned or even tried a number of state and political officials who have not been directly involved in war conflicts or crimes, has neither ordered their execution directly. You do not make such a difference in correcting injustice, nor define things in this way. The term – a member of the occupation forces operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as you used it in the proposal, can primarily be interpreted as being only the persons or members of the units operating in Serbia's territory. We believe that this exemption from the return of property should cover all members of the armed forces of the states that have occupied. Here, I came to support a part of Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's discussion, with full rights, because it doesn't matter if someone was a member of a unit that only worked on Serbia's territory or on the territory of some other states. These armies worked in general with the same goal. They were part of states that occupied both Serbia and committed crimes against Serbia's citizens and it doesn't matter that the crime against Serbian citizens was committed beyond Serbia's borders, or Serbia's borders, because Serbian citizens were victims of aggression. Should those who made sacrifices from Serbian citizens, inflict crimes on them, be made by someone who is due today to receive property from Serbian citizens? Nonsense. You are also aware that many Serbian citizens have been killed in other countries' territories by forces operating in Serbia's territory, so it is entirely irrelevant whether someone was a member of a military unit on Serbia's territory. Your proposal is exactly how it limits this definition. It doesn't matter if someone was a campkeeper somewhere in Germany, whether he was a member of the SS Division, Prince Eugen, or if I don't know everyone on the Eastern Front, a member of the NDH or something like that. I ask you to take care of this, because for the restitution law, it is more important that you exercise justice and justice than satisfaction within the coalition for another month of power. The amendment we have made to this Article 5, please take the most seriously into consideration. There are two other things I want to pay special attention to. The right of the successor of natural persons to return property cannot be brought into analogy with the right of legal followers so-called. Indemnity. There you open a groat, not a canal, a groat for corruption and injustice, and for a legal galatias of people who have earned a tenant's right, and live in what's been treated here with indemnity. The question is who will determine the property of a legal follower, because you haven't arranged it at all in a way that can be found undeniable. In practice, many associations have declared themselves legal followers by their acts and there are even more legal followers of the same task, some earlier organisation, which has had the property. The provision that you have put into the law not only opens up the vast possibilities of abuse but also the enormous possibility of corruption, because they possess enormous assets that will make it easy for someone to give their soul to the devil and to wrong someone and to do an illegal act, even at the cost that one day fits. I'm saying, that would also create additional insolvent problems for the state in terms of a fee or other solution for those who have a tenant right in such buildings. It should be borne in mind that the property of many of these employees is state-owned and that they do not work, some up to 70 years but, in the meantime, has ceased to exist and the activity in which they have worked has ceased to exist and social groups whose objectives have been established. Practically, there is a question of the possibility of continuing to operate these duties and their objectives. They will appear to you today with some legal followers who need to exercise their right. In this sense, there is no different definition of this problem than a beautiful Serbian language that says that the way for the acquisition of property in favour of a privileged group of individuals, and to the detriment of many Serbian citizens, as well as those who in the past decades and centuries have actually contributed to both the state and these tasks, and we will find ourselves in a new legal problem, where you can define the correction of injustice as an even greater injustice. One small part that we have also defined by amendment is that in that return of rights to foreign states, please bear in mind that I am talking about Article 5, those conditions of reciprocity, where you say that they have the right, in addition to the debt, and foreign citizens, and in the event of his death, the declaration of death, legal heirs under the condition of reciprocity. Please, let it be as some other laws define, even successions, but to the burden of that state. Make sure that reciprocity implies that this goes to the burden of this state or to the burden of that state? There's a great formulation in a similar law that you should establish. I think you're re-entering, through the correction of injustice, into a very possible injustice, in Article 14, where you're completely excluding the possibility of correcting the difference between what is, like, an unfair compensation for a fee paid in money or securities of value, for an ex prescribed goods before 1968. Now it's completely off. You must, in each case, carry out an assessment of what is then a fee and a fair fee to be determined under this law. I don't know why you're inventing new systems, criteria for determining that fee. If there is an Expropriation Act, which has been applied for a long time, if there is a case law in which, in the case of lawsuits, complaints, etc., some practice of reacting and correcting injustices has already been established, why are you now entering a new accounting system, which someone has even commended here, if we have a fully regulated system and an expropriation bill? What I have to ask you as a question, because I am someone who still has property in Kosovo, what does it mean to be a 65th member in which you have predicted that in KIM, as you say, "the application of this law on the territory of AP KiM will be arranged at the end of the operation of the international administration established in accordance with UN Resolution 1244", I do not understand what you were going to say about this? Except that you have no intention of dealing with this problem right now, do you not say at all whether this member implies persons who have residence or residence in the territory of the province or refers to the real estates that are on that territory? Probably harsh from the opposition when he tells you you're superficial. What does it mean you won't apply? This article should be deleted, because to the extent that this procedure is practically possible for both people for KIM and for KIM immovableities, you must not rule out part of your territory. Why? Resolution 1244 determines Kosovo's fate. Many of us down there still have their relatives, their property, let her be usurped. Do you know what right we Serbs have received from this international community, that in the fifth year of the occupation, we all file a claim without paying a tax on the lawsuit, by calling for a poor right because we are occupied by property, for what individuals have usurped, where many of us have right to use it by suing, first, that natural person who usurped our property, in conclusion with the UN, under whose protection, then unlawfully, these forces have been established, but also all the bodies, like the one you call bonds here: the state, local self-government, etc., are listed and are those who are accused of usurped citizens' rights. Dear gentlemen, we are fighting for the right of the individual, for the individual and for his right to be protected, not for the state to deny it in advance, as you do in this law, Article 65. That member must be deleted and you must try to find a way to apply this law to the territory as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60637	The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60638	Madam Vice President, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a little surprised by the law we are talking about, because I expected something quite different, but I will only speak very carefully and relatively briefly to you in one completely different way about this agenda point, while trying to compliment what I consider to be good and to express my expectations that what I consider to be bad will be corrected by the adoption of a number of amendments to this law. According to simple statistics, 4.5 amendments per member have been submitted to 66 members. Courage is a virtue that enjoys my undivided sympathy. There was no courage to come up with any bill so far, and in this assembly we have, I think somewhere between 10 and 15 proposals in the archives, among other things, and the proposal submitted by the Vojvodina Assembly and the last, our late friend and colleague Dr Batic. I accept that some of the principles had to start, but I don't understand why it didn't start with the principles of which Dr Batic, for example, set out in his proposal. Three key principles that the Government has proudly brought to us here, it's a correction of injustice, it's something that's similar to a colloquial debate at law schools, because this is about an ideological injustice that this law should somehow put in law, without ideological premises and a president. So, we're not talking about injustices, we're talking about injustice, we're talking about correcting injustice, we're talking about introducing it into the legal system of what was wronged. Secondly, not to make new injustices, it's a newly-compromised flossule of opponents of restitution, i.e. Return property, that some new injustices cannot be caused by legal injustice. It reminds me of one department in the Vojvodina Bar, when we discussed several purchase contracts of the same property, so the story broke out for two hours to finally realize that this is an impossible legal situation. There's only one sale contract, and that's the first one the buyer signed up for as owner. All these others didn't make a sale. And thirdly, what is most interesting and what I draw attention to and fully support as a measure of Serbia, as a measure of things, is the harmonisation of laws with the available property and financial resources of our country. Great. The only problem is that no one today has any idea what resources these are. Unfortunately. Because balances, inventory or whatever you want us to call it don't exist today. Incredibly, but true, the state owns a property that it doesn't know how much I, how many there are, who's keeping her in trouble, who's running it and who's got it and what's going on with it in the first place. That's why it's very difficult to talk about substitution, not let alone what I'm deeply thinking and what I'm firmly convinced to say is essentially, especially if it's about land there's no restitution without substitution. So, we're not gonna do anything unless we predict the possibility of a replacement return of property. He's got amendments like that. The reasons that it's a complication that it's a problem, please don't bring it up, of course it's a problem, of course it's a complication. Are bigger problems, and is this a bigger complication and whether they come at a more awkward time, compared to 2001 and the law on the return of old foreign savings, in that poor Serbia I am not sure. So, it's a lot of work, it's about the will to do this job, and in the end, although I know there are people who need to know what to do, what to do, what to get that branch out, and then we can talk about justice. As long as the return of property in such a way does not work, and the compensation under b) as a force of opportunity due to the lack of property, or the inability to return, until then, and we could see from these previous discussions of my colleagues, there is no deviation from Bolshevik consciousness, and we cannot say that we are essentially a democratic state. We're always going to have a molecule of something that's been produced by bettervism in little gray cells. So, with some more steps, this is an important step, to convince both us and Europe that we are indeed a serious democratic state. Unfortunately, what I expected to get through reading this bill is missing, and that's the conclusion that it's not about entrepreneurial restitution, and that's too bad. So, when the state was already forced to deal with the restitution, it had to stand on that step and say, let's now see how this property that we're returning and correcting what was wrongly done, put it into operation and bring the accompanying regulations through the existence of new tax forms, through the obligations of other species, so all those in countries where the incomparability of private property was clear from the first car, most normally exist and what I'm sure you have perhaps greater knowledge than me. So that spirit, the entrepreneurial spirit in this law, I don't recognize. I'd like to say something about the fact that was heard here, which is that the law adopted in 2006 is treated as a survey. Now we can agree here, in fact, we disagree, but the law is the law. The principles of legal certainty discussed by the head of the LDP parliamentary group and others, in my opinion, are just demanding to end it in a way that was then and done, rather than removing the law definitely from Serbia's legal system, so move practically from a new one, and we already have that. It is a shame to destroy that database that exists in the Republic of Serbia's Assets Directorate, or whatever it is called. That's too bad. The moment the Directorate is, as you say, returning the documentation she received in the mail, we can't talk about the database at the moment if there's no I.D. register. So we can believe it or we don't have to. From that database, there are forty thousand, I repeat forty thousand reasoned documents. It's a very important fact to untangle all of this that the amendments are trying to fix. Will we or won't we and how will we vote? It's a stereotype, but we'll see what the government of the amendment does. I have a question I don't have an answer to right now. What's the greater damage, how many states will suffer damage if we don't adopt this law, and how much damage will it suffer if we adopt it? So, I'm sure, much bigger if it's about the first question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60639	I apologize to the MP. I warn you to stop breaking the Rules of Procedure and tossing if I should mention the names of the MPs who are doing this right now, that's what I'm going to do, this is your last warning. With our attention, we are obliged to listen to a fellow who speaks to us. Excuse me, MP. One more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60640	You're welcome. I pay attention when someone smart throws something at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60641	MP Dragan Zivkov, please do not throw away or be rude. When I remind you that you are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if you want to prove that the session can only run if I to the MPs of the People's Republic of Radeti, Zoran Krasic and you, Parliament of the People of Dragana Zivkov, declare the measures of the notice because they interfere with the work of the session, mock procedures and interfere with the speaker, then I will do so. But I don't want what happens at this session, and that's why I warned you not to throw away, none of you, because it's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Excuse me, MP, once again, but the boundaries of the jurisdiction that are violated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are really crossed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60642	I've only had this one finale, and that's a sentence of my good friend who's a great aspirant, one of the co-owners of the former capital, which says on my remark, how he's so dead, and I'm so excited, and he says, "No, I can't get nervous anymore, I've only got one call and one request, adopt whatever it takes," because it's all going to end in Strasbourg anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60643	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. One more apology for being forced to disturb you by reminding other MPs of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, we have carefully examined this law and our first objection is principled nature, the public debate was insufficient. I think you'll agree, because it's simply a month of public debate for such a significant law that, according to your confession and written in the light of the law, it's worth saying, two billion euros, and that's more than not enough. In that sense, we have also examined the objections of those who seek property with the right and we have studied the objections of legal science, and between those two laws we have come to the conclusion that legal certainty is more important than anything and that simply, a kind of retroactivity that is applied in this case, will not only be favourable to, although as you said in the law it says 100,000 families, and you are saying 150 and you will admit that this is not a small difference, but that it is simply a law that will destroy a completely single legal certainty that has already existed for decades in this country. In that sense, we do not consider that people like heirs, Mr. Garashanin, who had a great historical role and a positive, first of all, as Mrs. Julia Garashanin, do not deserve both moral and any other right, to restore what was taken from them or the property of their ancestors. I say, on the other hand, there is one legal certainty that must be respected and we believe that there is one pre-election motive behind this law and we clearly say that because you will admit that nowhere in the primary or secondary law of the EU, although you are calling for the interpretation of the law on the Lisbon Treaty, there is no obligation to return property. There is only some conclusion, or decision of the EU Council, if I have not been wrong since 18 February 2008, which is general and which has been made in the context of so-called. Independence, so-called Kosovo. So it's about some things that can't be connected and that cause us to doubt. Also, in your extensive presentation, you said you would apply the experiences of other republics. I am now asking you specifically why there were no ambassadors of the former republics at the public debate here at the House of National Assembly, but was attended by the ambassador of Germany. This in us causes a kind of suspicion, especially when we consider Article 5 of this law that has already been spoken of, and which can be more than controversial. Our position, as regards Article 5, is based on the experience of a country you are calling for, and we have heard several times in the debate, which is the Czech Republic, or Czechoslovakia, because in 1990, when a law was passed that regulated the return of property in Czechoslovakia, there was a single state of Czech Republic and Slovakia. So it was something that had already appeared as a problem and appeared as a problem of returning property to members of the German minority, in the Republic of Serbia, and it was folks or members of the German minority who lived in the territory of Vojvodina and the assessment of the German association in the Republic of Serbia that there were about 500,000. On the other hand, with the Czech Republic, it's about the German students. How did the Czechs solve this problem that would arise if Article 5 were applied or if it did, and I see and we have an announcement, this amendment was applied by a colleague from the SVM. Therefore, it is therefore that simply a serious state would limit the law to domestic citizens only in this situation. Otherwise, there will be serious legal problems and members of the German minority and other minorities will have every right to seek their property, because as we have heard, we agree and there is no collective responsibility. You said in a public debate, and this is generally known as your statement that as far as members of the German minority folks are concerned, it was all settled by an agreement, allegedly Titot or Brant agreement, in 1973. I ask you now in public, in front of all MPs, where is this agreement, do you have a written agreement? No, he doesn't exist in writing, he's in legal theory, and I see colleagues who deal with history, it's called the gentlemen's agreement, so it's not possible to appeal to the oral agreement and say that it will be settled by applying an oral agreement between Joseph Broz and Willy Brant. You will admit that this is a bit unserious and simply contributes to legal confusion and legal uncertainty that will enter our legal system if this law is passed. As for Article 5, we do not understand why he insists that you also defile the victims of the Holocaust. You will admit that this is a broad term, instead of focusing on the return of property, concrete people and their successors, if there are, you have one piece of Article 5 that is completely inappropriate, because you will admit what you're saying about the Old Fair, the memorial centre, has nothing to do with the Republic of Serbia, because it was a criminal camp that existed in the territory of the occupation NDH and was owned by the Gestapo. So I don't see any reason that the Republic of Serbia has any kind of responsibility at all and I'm telling you again, there are so many property belongings of the community, for example in the Prince Michael of Getse Kon, and beyond where you could apply the natural restitution. However, as if there was not enough courage that there was not enough will to simply limit some rights to those who today have practical power in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you of your findings, that this law will contribute to the development of borrowing in the Republic of Serbia. Please, you'll admit it's inconclusive. The development of employment in the Republic of Serbia can be achieved by some other laws, the Law on Extra Profit, the Law on Extra Tax, in the case of Mr Miskovic. It is the right solution to make such tycoons oligarchs give something to the people also through the employs and through other charities. To talk about some practical impact of this law on that kind of employeeship, you'll admit it's more than unserious. We also heard here that the IMF will not include the two billion euros in the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. We have heard from colleagues from PUPS, it is more than unserious and it is a huge number for the external debt of the Republic of Serbia, because you know that it has crossed 23 billion euros and simply, one country that is in transition, at the beginning of the transition, I don't know what you think here, can't handle another two billion of further borrowings that will take place, and that is, you will admit scandalously in the bonds of the state that will nominate in the euro. You said here in your opening statement that another currency would not be introduced in the Republic of Serbia for 20 years, you probably thought of the euro, if it existed then. On the other hand, in the bill of law, the key or backbone of this law are these government bonds, because in nature it is impossible to return, you nominate in euros. You will admit that this is a great illogicality both from both legal and economic and from any other point of view or, to be perfectly clear here in front of the public of Serbia to say, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the legislator and the legislator of this law, do not believe in their official currency. This stems from this bill, from your opening presentation and simply creates a kind of legal uncertainty that will be poured into the economic system of the Republic of Serbia. In the light of the law, this is one fact, you will admit, which says that this law is not adopted at all because of any EU requirements, but solely for pre-election purposes, you are calling for the Lisbon Treaty and you are saying that there are two members of the Lisbon Treaty who prescribe that the restitution of the property must be carried out. It's not, it's just, it's not true. I responsibly claim and appeal to the text of this Lisbon Treaty that it is not true. Those two members you are calling on regulate the transport of capital between Member States and third countries. It has nothing to do with this law. I don't know why you even put that in the law at all. Please explain this to me because this is a fact that shows that the law is not based on any primary or secondary EU sources. You can say it's based on the Charter of Human Rights, but it's about guaranteeing human rights, guaranteeing property, and one of the members of the Lisbon Treaty, which you're calling upon, is just saying that all property is equal. So he's also directly denying you that it's a kind of legal basis for passing such a law. We also call on you again, it's a kind of constructive criticism, to respect the experience of the Czech Republic. We believe in the SRS, although we are against the EU in economic, legal, political and any other sense, that you have had at least one dose of political courage to show, as the president of the Czech Republic has shown. Mr. Djelic, I'm sure you know that he has conditioned his signature on the Lisbon Treaty, which you are calling for in the light of this law, by not being retroactively referred to and demanding the return of the property of the Sudetic Germans. It's the least you could do. Of course, Serbia is far, far from joining the EU and the question is what form this national organisation will be in, but you, Mr. Djelic, were the head of the negotiating team to sign the SAA. You should have put in this very important legal act, against which, of course, we, instead of these members on good neighbourly co-operation, which is the water on the guideline of an independent Kosovo, simply put one kind of obstacle, one kind of calling for a member who would guarantee that it would not be, and there we will be absolutely clear, returning property to 500 thousand folks who had somewhere according to their data 51% of the land in the AP Vojvodina. So it's about problems that may arise and that will appear and will grow bigger and bigger if you adopt any of these amendments that you said you would adopt on Article 5. So the key to this law is this Article 5, and it will create major problems and you will admit that it is more than unserious to call for a kind of oral agreement between Joseph Broz and Willy Brant. Also, you speak here, and we consider it a kind of pre-election campaign, that all those who get a rightful solution will have an advance of 10,000 euros. If I'm not mistaken, it's article 63, correct me if I'm wrong. I'm going to give you one example again that shows how unrealistic this is, how much for a country, which is still in a difficult economic state, is inappropriate. Germany, as the richest country of the EU and Europe, passed a law in 1991 that, among other things, regulated and returned property, a restitution in connection with East Germany. It was mostly a natural form of return, but as far as monetary compensation is concerned, it is limited to 10,000 marks. So this parallel example clearly shows that you will pay more compensation than one Germany. Do you agree? Therefore, it is more than inappropriate and it will be a new blow to the Republic of Serbia's budget and it is recognised by the finance minister who, we see in public, is exactly the author of the law. He says in one statement, I paraphrase, that simply this law will primarily rely on privatisation, not on privatisation, where you have about 100m euros in the fund, but on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Now I will be very clear and open-minded – citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through the state budget will pay this pre-election law and this selective law that will introduce great legal uncertainty and great legal confusion not only in the system of the Republic of Serbia, but also beyond, if you have in mind these foreign citizens from Hungary, Germany and Austria who, with full law, under this law, will have the opportunity to under the so-called so-called firm. personal responsibilities, more specifically, that there will be no collective responsibility, that they seek their property. So, one legal confusion is being introduced, one major damage is being introduced into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and I can't understand it unless you have one real assumption that simply, the IMF had no well-intentioned assumptions when it approved this law because perhaps they had motives to continue borrowing the Republic of Serbia. Since you have a budget deficit of over 4%, the only way this law can liven up is by further borrowing the Republic of Serbia. That's why this law is more than harmful. So the vast majority of budget users will pay for this unreal, inappropriate and legally harmful law. That's the real truth about this law, and that's why we're against this law. I simply don't see any argument on your part, nor have I heard it in these 40 and a few minutes of your extensive exposure where they would convince us that this is a law that will bring prosperity to our citizens. The SRS will never deceive its citizens, perhaps at some point it would be more useful for us to say – we will accept the law, we will vote, but for the sake of legal certainty, because of the real importance of this law, because of the international consequences that can arise as a result of the application of Article 5, we will not vote in favour of this law, and therefore we have submitted a large number of amendments which, above all, are based on the principle of legal certainty. Also, there's another big legal problem, you haven't convinced us or mentioned what's wrong with the property that's loaded with mortgages before World War II. It is a kind of problem and you will admit in a situation where banks and financial organisations and similar, unfortunately, as in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Western Europe, now called the EU, have a monopoly on the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. It'll be more than a real problem. So our motives for rejecting this law for a constructive criticism that shows that the law, which is entirely inapplicable, is more than clear. First of all, it's about Article 5. Article 5 will create major problems for your European path because the appearance of the German ambassador and his role, however, in this context and other events happening in the southern Serbian province, show that there is a kind of evil intention. If you think it's unrealistic, that it's a conspiracy theory, I'll give you another example, which is that in Bavaria there's a kind of very powerful association that requires the return of the property of the Sudanese Germans. We wouldn't be surprised to see what's been going on in the last 20 years if such a kind of an association of descendants of the folksdojchers in Austria appeared. Therefore, these are some criticisms that are realistic and which are not a product of our position that the EU has an alternative, but a product of reality and a product of this law that is more than harmful, which violates legal certainty, the international position of the Republic of Serbia, because we believe, and we will say it openly, it can be another kind of polygon for blackmailing the Republic of Serbia. To be specific, I'll finish my exposure. There may be another condition on the so-called. the road to the EU, which is the return of property to the folks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60645	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60646	Dear Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we all agree that this is an important law, but I must say that I do, and I see that from the discussion of all the other participants, we all have a similar problem to make clear that this area was possible in conditions in which Serbia is to be arranged differently. So all those who have objections to this law, questions and doubts in some way lack the answer as to how it was possible to do so in another way without being equally dilemmad and equal number of concerns. And alone, deeply believing that the correcting of what was not only injustice, but very often there was the destruction of the lives of some families, and basically these acts were ideologies, I feel the need as a man to do what was the power of this generation to correct this injustice. So this law can move, when it comes to injustice, on the one hand driven by the need of each of us to correct this injustice and on the other hand to feel responsible for correcting this injustice not to bring some new injustice to some new innocent people. When we need to look for solutions in that space, we immediately realize that this law must have limitations, because it is impossible to wrong that has had many changes in the course of these 60 years and over, so that it is fully corrected to those to whom it has been done, and that no new injustices have been done, or that the entire generations of future generations are not burdened with the obligation that they will have to pay for generations and generations, without even saying this job is done in the best possible way, we have damaged everything in full, and we have not damaged anyone again. Of course, this debate encourages again and shows ideological differences between us. Of course, what should not only happen is that we have different ideological views of the past, so the present also must not mean that things like correcting injustice and preserving innocents, from new injustices, should go from our further ideological differences. So I think maybe it's best that we approach this business without any ideological signs, just trying to say, should we be a society that will unequivocally show that private property and the right to private property is a fundamental constitutional right guaranteed to every citizen of this country and that in fact by law we are trying to confirm it, correcting what has been denied in the past. When we talk about this law, of course, the restriction we are facing, on the one hand, is the desire to make up for everything that has been taken from someone, and on the other hand, to go from what the economic possibilities of the state really are and what can be done, and that the state does not suffer the consequences with which every citizen, not just these generations, but also future generations later, will face a huge economic problem. Of course, we are coming to the point that Serbia is a country that has no economic power to fully compensate for what was once taken away, and that in itself means that this compensation will not be in the value in which the assumption was a value that was once taken away. What is also important to us when we are discussing this is – have we defined and included all those to whom this law should apply? Did we accidentally miss out on covering some of the ones that we should be referring to, and we forgot to mention them, so there are amendments to which special attention should be paid. I also think that it is equally important that we should not allow this law to cover the right to return property and those which unequivocally represented a single ideology of fascism, an ideology with which modern Europe, in relation to both modern Europe and the whole democratic world, has a completely clear and unequivocal relationship. We must not allow the difference between those who were on the side of fascism and those who were anti-fascists to be erased. We must not allow this country to lose its own orientation and the legacy of the anti-fascist that it has cherished so far. That's why I think it's very important to define the right of anyone who has not sinned in this regard, to return to him what was wrongfully taken from him. At the same time, not really equating those who were innocent victims of an ideological reckoning, at one time compared to those who were guilty of the evil that happened throughout the world at that time. When we talk about concrete solutions, what's being asked as a question is – are the citizens here even in their rights? Many discussions so far have questioned this. I think it remains to show the time before us whether the state has made the greatest effort to even them into rights. I'm sure she did within the limits of those economic possibilities that the state has. Given the fact that Strasbourg has already been mentioned extensively, I think we will see whether the law is unfair to citizens or whether the law is only possible, given the country's economic potential. I think there are some things that should certainly be considered and perhaps some amendment to try to make things right. For example, the question is, I'm only going to take one example from the law. The question arises, if it returns to the owner of the land on which the vineyard is planted, this law provides that 40 years cannot change the contract, not a single item of the contract. The state has leased on a country that will be subject to restitution and has issued this country at symbolic prices very often. Now, as the subject of restitution, it remains for citizens to consider whether to accept the property, because it will be taxed, and the lease will not be economical. He can't change the price of that lease for 40 years. So, another question, I'm now asking this as a dilemma, and I believe that we will get to the end of the debate both in principle and in particular the answers to these questions, not the land on which the facility was built in function, that's the definition. No definition of what is an object in a function, the value of an object in a function? Is the spell, which is the object in office, the reason that the earth does not return? I think it is necessary to specify such provisions that leave a simple arbitration interpretation, and hence the possibility of possible abuses. Let me just get this straight in the end. I really don't think it's easy for anyone today to talk about this law, it's easy for anyone to tell – we found the best formula for us to correct a huge injustice that lasts for decades in the best possible way, in which all those we correct this injustice will be satisfied without at the same time bringing a new, innocent situation to them again. What I can only say is that what matters is what this government is, knowing all these problems, knowing all possible attacks that are going to come from different sides, yet propose a law that tried to find the right measure between what is the need to determine ourselves according to these past events, make up for the damage that has been done to them on the other hand, to say – this is what the state can do, not what it wants to do. So I think that they are truly unfounded and unprincipled criticisms of all those who have been in governments, who are reportedly heartily seeking to return everything at all costs, which they have never done, to object to this government and to this parliamentary majority who, if you want, assumes not only responsibility, but also shows courage to in such complicated circumstances with so many possible problems that are seen in the hint, yet it says – we will do this step, if it can be corrected in the future, we are willing to correct it, but do not object to us who have taken this step, and those who could have taken it earlier in better economic circumstances have not even tried it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60647	It was used 11 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of the principled search for a word in writing, with the order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, New Serbia, SPS-JS, DSS, ZES, SRS and MP groups Forward Serbia, and during the session, it is time to report to the People's MPs in order and to report for the word in principle on the draft law on the return of seized property and compensation. This concludes the morning part of the work. The work continues at 15.10 pm, by the first registered speaker MP, MP Ivan Andric, will have a word, followed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon by debate of the MPs, and by order and application for a word in the initial search of the draft law on the return of the seized property and compensation. Before I give a word to the first speaker to the MP, Ivan Andric, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 18.00 hours and that after the debate is concluded, we will open the debate on the draft law that is in progress, and we will open a general debate on the law that is next on the agenda, that is, the amendment and addition of the Law on Return, that is, the restitution of the property of the churches, and, with the possibility of time and debate, we will end today's work by ending the principled search and that bill. The reason is that this law, which is under way, we have 255 amendments proposed, we have 155 amendments to the previous law. The search in detail also takes time, and we have obligations within the deadlines that we took when we started discussing the bill's proposals that are under way. The People's MP Ivan Andric has the word, and after him, National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60649	Thank you. It's kind of embarrassing that the minister isn't here, or vice president of the government, but what do we do? We hope he's watching us on TV somewhere, and then he'll hear what we have to say. The morning part of the debate has somehow made it clear to everyone how important this is and how much they have actually shared in the society in which we live. There is, unfortunately, not even some simplest basis for any common views of different events in our history. As someone who participated in the changes and on October 5th, 2000, who is less or more constantly in Serbia's political life, somewhere I can share that part of responsibility for the situation in which we found ourselves, and above all for the fact that there is clearly no institution, body, or any part of society, that has gained the necessary authority by its work, so that everyone else has undivided faith in the truth of what the institution has to say about certain things. That's where our opinions are shared. Unfortunately, I didn't come up with the idea of talking about this today, but for me, the history of the people to whom I belong or the state, not to be nationally colored, there are many bright spots and many dark spots, probably like the history of every nation in the world. I don't think at any time we, as representatives of Serbian citizens, should allow what is the brightest or some of the brightest points of our history to be questioned only because of the fact that there is no ruling majority for some law right now. For me, the occupiers of our country in World War II will always be occupiers. I don't think we should give up on that. So little morality in this society, whatever side you turn to. If we continue to relativize everything, and something that I thought there was no division in our society, which is the belonging of our people and the citizens of this country to the winning coalition in the Second World War, or the anti-fascist struggle, if we are to reciprocate it by correcting the injustice or trying to correct the injustice that occurred several years after that anti-fascist struggle, then I don't think there's any point in dealing with this law. Our position is clear and we said it this morning, but I'm also going to send a message to the ruling coalition. Tomorrow is the session of the Legislative Committee of the Assembly, which is due to adopt an amendment that the government itself has put on its own on the bill. Please don't falsify history for the sake of the majority in this assembly. Maybe it just takes a little bit more effort to find another majority. There are no four votes from the Serbian parliament that require us to make a decision that the occupations in this country did not exist or the occupation forces. I think they have to exist. Many times the authorities talk about some red lines, believe this is the most important thing to remain one red line. That's something I think we can only be proud of. There's been a lot of debate, we said that if we're already trying to correct some kind of injustice that's been done, then let's try to be as widespread as possible in that righting of the wrong. Unfortunately, a holocaust has happened in this country, and I don't agree with a colleague from the SRS. There's plenty of evidence for that. Allow me, above all, to read something called the Regulation on the belonging of Jews to Serbia because of the history of this House. It is a regulation signed by Ministerial Council President Milan Nedic on 26 August 1942. I will read to you just one sentence: "The property of all Jews who were citizens of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia on 15 April 1941 or without citizenship, if they are located in the Serbian area, belongs to Serbia without any compensation." These words, in fact, represent one of the proof that a holocaust happened here. We, as the Serbian Parliament, must not remain silent on such injustice. That is why, on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment asking that, in addition to returning property to these points proposed by the government, we should add the first point of this law by asking for the return of property to all the Jews that were taken away during World War II. I also ask the government to support it, but I also ask all MPs, unless the government supports such a thing, to adopt it in the day of voting. The excuse or reason the government offered is that the property was later returned to the Jewish community or to Jewish citizens in Serbia on some other grounds is not true. These citizens, when they tried or wanted those who survived whom, unfortunately, not much, they were to go to Israel when the state of Israel was formed, they had to give up Serbian citizenship, or then Yugoslav citizenship. There is a legal inability for these citizens to be returned to the property that was taken from them first by Nedic's signature, and later, in general kidnapping and then to the government since 1946. Also, for us, it is not an acceptable solution to finance the construction of a memorial. We think that, at the very least, it's untasteful that out of the assets of the people who have suffered, and that there are 31 thousand Jews in the Second World Labour, that you're making their property known to them and I think it's, at the very least, unethical and untasteful, and I think political repercusions are much greater. That's what Cedomir Jovanovic was talking about. This property must be used to build a fund to finance the obligations and lives of the Jews living with us today, and the memorial mark is required to build a state of Serbia and thus honor the people who fell. So, the assets of the Jews who disappeared in World War II must be used to make it easier for human reasons for the lives of the Jews who survived the Holocaust and who live with us today, but also to be used in the social life of the Jews today and, why not, the religious needs of that group. I must point out that although I am not someone who has a high opinion of these religious matters in Serbia, there is complete support for all other religious communities in Serbia around this attitude that has a Jewish municipality in Serbia. So all religious communities in Serbia signed a single statement on 16 August 2011 or one application requesting what the LDP has submitted as an amendment. So to include in the return of property taken from the Jews from 1941 to 1945 and from 1948 to 1953, while moving Jews from Serbia to Israel, when property was taken from them under duress, with the denial of Serbian citizenship. It's another cube in a series of injustices that this congregation can only try to fix. These injustices are such that we must never forget them, nor revitalize them, that is the least we can do. But, simply, we can do something in our time that will at least help to make parts of these injustices right. It is believed to be in the transition process, there are four laws called so-called so-called "transition". The laws of justice – the Law on Rehabilitation, the Law on Lustration, the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Restitution, these are four laws considered necessary on the economic side, but also on the general side, to bring some kind of justice in some society that we all rightly consider to have been pressured for 40 or 50 years. This country has passed a Law on lustration, it was passed in 2003, the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation. My question is the question of the President of Parliament – why is this law not being applied? Furthermore, we have the Rehabilitation Act adopted, but we have shown that we cannot discuss it in a new way, by having been removed or withdrawn by the ruling majority from the agenda, yesterday or the day before. We have the Privatisation Act, and I believe that everyone has their own attitude, but it's a clear atmosphere in society about how righteous he was. There's still a law on restitution and restitution of property, and that's the law we're discussing today. As a member of the political party participating in political life, I have my opinion on how much justice we have succeeded in bringing to Serbia during the transition period. But as someone who is partly responsible and responsible for such a thing, like all of us who sit here and like people who sit in government and who are far more responsible than us, I don't think we have the right to talk and that every citizen who lives in this country will decide about it. I'm just going to say that my sense of it is far from a sense of satisfaction and away from some general sense of justice, which I think we have to do every day for something, to be one step closer to it. Because of all this we have no dilemma – we will support the law on return of property, above all as a political law which is an attempt to correct a historical injustice. We ask or ask the Government to accept our amendment in order to correct the wrongs affect another broader context. Of course, we are prepared to listen to all the amendments that the other parliamentary groups have submitted. Once again, we will never allow this red line to cross in this room, for us one of the most important, and that is the bright spot in the history of this country, in which we were part of the anti-fascist coalition. If we have to stay here to defend her every day, we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60650	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, followed by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60651	It is extremely symbolic that you schedule congregation meetings by following up on big church holidays, as the "merciful angel" once was the most fiercely bombed on a red letter. Any similarity is, I hope, random, as must be the fact that the most important laws, which are the basic conditions for EU candidacy, we are discussing in a situation where it is absolutely uncertain what the fate of our southern province is, and does the Ambassador of Russia, Mr Konuzin, at the Belgrade Security Forum, in general, in the Serbian government that cares more about Kosovo than about painting in tennis tournaments? It seems, not only to me but also to a large number of Serbian citizens, for whom Kosovo is the most sacred and expensive Serbian word, that as barricades grow on Jarinj and Brnjak, stone by stone, so does your determination not to stray from the path, law by law, and all by EU dictatorship. So seven days ago, on September 14th, he found himself on the agenda, but also in a magical way disappeared, the Bill of Rehabilitation, just as they once did in the time of the break-up of the Bolshevik era, from the missing pictures of those who were not quite alike. We would like to talk about the Rehabilitation Law, which is only one of the essential elements in the restitution process, on the very day of the beginning of the church year. The symbolism of entering a new era, a time when at least many victims of various ideologies will be delayed or posthumously, in fact the proud vanity of those who believed that the force of the law also allows the rape of the law, including the lives of people of different beliefs, finally to achieve justice. Instead, the law itself proved inappropriate. It can only be done in Serbia. An example for Ripley. The Rehabilitation Act is a law that needs rehabilitation itself. Today, on Little Lady, on the day of the birth of the Holy Mother, we should establish such a necessary national consensus and demonstrate clearly as a nation and state if there is indeed a visible change in the authoritarian and not democratic, cultural and political patterns. And that's not only because it requires the EU, as one of the 4,000 essential conditions for joining its highness, but because we want to return to our political, social life the fundamental principle of justice and justice, correcting the many injustices done to people just because they belonged to a different world, having different ideological views, rehabilitating them, bringing them back to them kidnapped and depriving them. It is clear that the process of restitution of history will not revise but will change the attitude towards concrete personalities, their beliefs and actions. And finally, because the victims of totalitarianism, so was he, as established by the famous psychologist Izing, a Nazi or communist type, must be restored to basic human dignity. The degree of democracy of society cannot be measured by the number of failures, and certainly the cataractly organized gay parades, the victims of communism have a much greater right to create a parade of pride and to talk about horrors that have passed, individually, as families, as labels, belittled, tortured, murdered and ultimately stolen social group. After all, the results of such a hip-lead parade are only new victims of torture, our young people with cheeks that become victims of totalitarianism and will soon have to apply the Rehabilitation and Restitution Act. In any case, if the good intentions of the owner are not only an additional intrusion of the European Union, which I have reason to doubt, because the set of restitution laws represents no one else until the absence of the present, the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, then we should not, as people, conflict over the basic objective, the return of property and adequate compensation of victims. It is clear that political rehabilitation and restitution are also a complex and contradictory social cultural process, which requires, above all, great tolerance, but also the willingness of society to have a serious conversation and objective consideration, both historical and overall political and social relations. Are we really ready enough today to get into this process? Do we know how serious and systematic action, affirmation and our political traditions, the precondition for establishing a stable and clear profiled system of values, because it is certainly not a question of the European Union, of integration candidates, and, moreover, it must not be the subject of pre-election calculations of any government, and especially of those that it is clear that it has broken all the seams. I don't mean to be indignant, but it's no coincidence that the restitution law brings this power right at the end of the term, because it obliges the future power to condition a desolated economy and the economic downturn, to provide three-to-five billion euros, as estimated by the state in money to pay for compensation, with the value of the goods for which the denationalisation is sought at around 100 billion euros, if all was paid in cash. But there's really not that much in aunt's cannabete, plus, let's not forget that restitution is risky for the ruling political oligarchy, because politicians from the government could lose support, and that's the most powerful rich, so-called tycoons, in fact, of the tycoons that use different foundations of return properties. Then it'd be the bat of Mouse and the family, and the good news in the wrong position, that current power is pouring hot potatoes into someone else's, is that it's in the resignation. The nearness of the end of this government is also felt in this intense interest in the rapid adoption of the restitution law, which has become an enviable formula for trading promises and collecting political points. My suspicion would have the elements of paranoia if it weren't for two facts, so important a law like this on restitution, it's being passed in the middle of a long hot summer series, so it was better if the public debate was organised on Ada gypsies or in front of the air conditioning repair service. Secondly, the obvious evidence that what is fast, is also short, is with the character and the quick signing of the SAA exactly Boža Djelic, whom they always put to Serbia to represent Disneyland. So, if God says it's going to be a fair restitution, then it's the law, and then it's going to be quick, like an electric rabbit. The fact that the state can't function without a so-called set of restitution laws, that there are four missing linkages in achieving transition justice and property security, rule of law, that's no problem for God. We are left with four important processes, the opening of files of secret services, the famous lustration of public officials, as public officials, violated the rights of their citizens during the period of the totalitarian regime, but also of this full legal rehabilitation of victims that implies the annulment of their damages and, of course, the restitution, because of the legal achievement of economic and social rehabilitation. Otherwise, this is going to be a half-restitution, so here's a lesson from the graphite "you've painted." From this bill, it is obvious that the long-awaited return, unjustly seized property, just bring new injustices. Obviously, an unfair solution is that people who have been deprived of property for more than half a century, and then have reported claims under the 2006 law, and now have to go back to the counters and, of course, it would be more normal for the authorities to establish all the facts and verify the existence of legal basis for each previous law through mutual communication, and only if the documentation does not give the applicants' claim rights, to call for evidence to be collected. In addition to being unfair to the obligation to collect data to former owners, any contact interested with authorities is a new opportunity for corruption. Other injustices and serious discrimination are made differences in vomiting on the basis of complete coincidence. For example, whether a building was built on a nationalised salary in the meantime or not. As contrary to the declared principle of natural restitution, exemptions and return restrictions, it is in fact achieving a avoidance of the return of assets in the nature, the law provides for the payment of the bond fee, whose total amount is limited. The ultimate effect is that the request based on the restitution will be reduced dozens of times. The injustices would certainly be less in the substitution, the compensation process also carries a significant risk of corruption, as it is based on estimates of the value of the seized assets that cannot be passed in one way or another without the decision of the state authorities. With this law, the Serbian government provided for various discretionary rights and the role of the seller of the property of the deprived origin, which can be donated to third parties according to its decision. In addition, the Agency for Restitution is the discretionary right to decide what is the collapse of economic stability and what is not. Several members of the law arbitration, discriminate against citizens, assign or withdraw rights. In principle, Article 8 provides for the natural return of the seized property, but Article 18 provides for exemptions from return, which are more numerous and cover most of the assets to be recovered. The law would have to define the holder of property without legal basis, as well as the unwitting constituencies, unequivocally as a returnee of property based on restitution, especially if such property is leased, leased and similar relations. The draft law has serious legal gaps in the whole, and especially in the part which is prescribed under the requirements, where a large space for arbitration in conduct has been left, as well as in terms of deadlines. It is felt that the objective of the procedural provisions of the law is, in fact, to bring as many former owners in a position to request them, because of the practical inability to collect evidence, because of the short deadline for submission of requests and the long deadline for decision-making at the request, to be rejected or if they are rejected, the deadline for the re-application of applications is past. A particularly painful question for us, the people of the Serbian state, is, and how does the bill promote the application of the provisions of this law on KIM territory? The formulation in Article 65, under which the application of this law in the territory of KIM will be regulated at the end of the operation of the international administration established in accordance with Resolution 1244, really seems almost yupterian when the current authority is prescribed in which, again paraphrasing Russian Ambassador Konuzin, there are people who cannot be less interested in the fate of their countrymen. Or perhaps it's more European to quote Archibald Rice - Serbs, take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60652	I thank you, this time of New Serbia's parliamentary group has been used. The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60653	It is mentioned that the Legislative Committee should be declared on amendments, namely whether any amendments should or should not be adopted here in the plural. It is the responsibility of the Legislative Committee to determine only according to the consistency of the amendments in relation to the Constitution and the legal system. I'd just like to say one more thing, the question is whether he was in any way injured by article 107. The Rules of Procedure, for the speaker at the National Assembly session, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, in that sense and to speak only the truth. The fact is that Mr. Andric called for Nedic's decisions, and the FNRJ passed the law in 1946 on the indifference of the legal rules made during the enemy occupation, so before 6 April 1941 and during the enemy occupation. In that sense, do not deny that any injustice should be corrected, these rules of Nedic are not in force since 1946, the law was later updated in 1947 and 1948.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60654	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60655	Article 27 refers to your conduct in holding the session. Namely, if someone asks for a word and gets a word from you, then we expect, as so far as you've been rigorous, to continue to be. We expect you to be consistent with what you do, you know. What does Alexandera Jankovic have to do with what is said here in the capacity of... In what capacity? What replica? What was that?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60656	National MP, the decision on whether one of the MPs will receive a replica cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't abuse. Thank you. National MP Sasa Dujovic is not currently in the hall, he has other obligations, he will get a word later. National MP Radojko Obradovic has a word, followed by MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60657	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been pointed out many times today that this is an important law and is important for many things. This is one of the laws that must correct the injustice that once was done. This law, first of all, must be just so that it does not make new injustices, and this is one of the laws that must establish respect for private property. This is another law that needs to show that property is respected in our country. After World War II, and at the very end of the war, numerous decisions made by then by the authorities were taken away. But this law is something else specific, and today it's simply not emphasized. This law concerns not only the decisions taken and the property taken immediately after the war, but also the application of the Expropriation Act, which was taken in the public interest but which was subsequently paid far below the market price. So it's another specificity of this law because it's trying to eliminate injustices that weren't done right after the end of the war, but by wrong and unfair application of the law. The law must be fair above all. Will this law in its application be just? If we look at only who the law applies to, who has the right to regain property, we'll see that's not the case. Why? The circle of those who are damaged by the seizure of property, and who are now entitled to vomit, is drastically narrowed down. There are 1944 decisions that Mr Aligrudic mentioned, which are not mentioned and all those who are damaged by applying these decisions do not have the right to compensation. There are a number of decisions of municipal congregations just before the end of the war that property was taken away, they are not mentioned here. In a large number of cases, property was seized without any decision. All these damaged people have no right to compensation and there are a huge number of people whose property has been seized in legal matters under duress. None of them have the right to compensation. It should have been possible for all those whose assets were taken away in such a way, who had no formal evidence of taking away property, but had evidence of ownership, to be able to prove that this property was theirs, that it was now led to someone else and to get a chance to get their property back. There is no real return of property and real restitution without a replacement of property. The law provides for a model for the property to return to nature. If he can't go back in nature for any reason, then he's coming back through damages. The model had to be that the property was coming back, first of all, in nature. If it is not possible to return to nature, to enable the return of the asset to be replaced, then only then to allow a market fee to be paid to all those who cannot be settled through the first or second market fee model for their assets. You can't talk about compensation and say in the same sentence that it's just. The compensation is compensation, and the market fee is a market fee. Such a model would be far more economically sustainable for the situation in which the country is located, far less burdened by the budget and be far more just. The model to be offered will make new injustices. Some property that has remained in nature, which will be able to return to nature, will allow owners to be in a much better position than those who will be compensated, because the model that will offer all the damages you have caused will put them in an unequal position. If you look at Article 18, which provides in which cases the property cannot be returned, we will all see that the idea of the legislator, the idea of the Government of the Republic of Serbia having virtually no assets and no return of property in nature, is that these are individual cases, because when you look at what is excluded from the return, then it is quite clear that the idea is that only through compensation and far below the market value is executed afterwards. Just look at the case of not built building land, basics and who doesn't have the right to return. If the urban plan is intended to be a public area, the land can no longer be returned. A plan act is not a condition for someone to be taken away from their property. The plan represents a plan of what will be in some territory. It should have been possible for all these people to be returned to their property, and then when that land is brought in, it is intended to be exported and the market compensation for them to gain their value. That's far more just, and that's just. The compensation cannot in any way be lower than the market value. This law provides for the tax administration to assess the value and there is no possibility of challenging any way to dispute the assessment of the value made by the tax administration, as if the tax administration were infallible. There is no possibility that the party will also hire a court expert to initiate any procedure that will challenge the value of the estimated assets. Therefore, an estimate will be made that can be far below market value. Just look at the model where the total sum is defined at two billion euros, which will be compensated for all those whose property should be returned. An estimate of the value is achieved by making a total list of all assets, an estimate of the value. This is compared to two billion euros, and a coefficient is obtained to multiply the real value of the property. Imagine a case of the value of the total asset being a billion euros, then each of the damaged will get twice as much value as its real assets. Whether something needs to be said about this model and such, or is it clear enough how paradoxical such a return model is. It is not clear why the 2006 law is not accepted as binding and why all these applications are not an integral part. Why would someone who reported the property have to do it again? Why does everyone on the record have to file again? These are the people that are damaged? These are the people to whom someone wrongfully took away property. They've already reported it. It's supposed to be an integral part of automatism. The report submitted in 2006 should be an integral part of this law and whoever reported it then does not have to register again. In the event of any objections, it should be possible for the applicant to withdraw his request, to supplement it, to correct some value, but there is no reason to do it again, just as the applicant is predicted to bear all costs in accordance with the law. These are the people whose property was taken away. What costs should they have in the return process that eliminates any injustice? They shouldn't have any expense. There are many objections, but it is quite clear that such a model of the law circle of those who are damaged, whose property should be returned, significantly reduced, that the procedures are very complicated, that the values are not marketable, that the damages are far below the real values and that the model is wrong. This law will not be fair. He will make new injustices and will not solve one of the problems that exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60658	Seven minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Ivan Andric, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60659	Thank you. First of all, I'm gonna use a little harder word to take my chances. I think it's a shame to wait, Mr. Mikovic, to get out of the O.R. and then replicate it to me, it's inadmissible, but it's more about you...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60660	People's Messenger, I ask you to comply with the decree of the Rules of Procedure. No one forces the Messenger to leave the room, nor can anyone make him enter the Hall. Please, right on the replica you got. National MP Srdjan Mikovic received the right to replica after he had already received the right to speak to Aleksandra Jankovic and that is the order of things, so I ask you about what the contents of the replicas were. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60661	I'm sorry, it wasn't for you, but I reserve the right to think so. The unacceptable explanation you've offered us for several reasons. The first reason is because it's not true. My question directly to you – is this Law that brought the FNRJ returned property to the Jews in Serbia? The other thing is political and she's much more serious and I can't blame you for not understanding, but believe me. There's a little line between what you've been trying to do, that kind of relativization. I'm talking about the fact that on behalf of this country, the citizens of this country, 80% of the people who live here have been destroyed. Your technical fact that you don't want to throw it in because some kind of technical mathematics is possible to correct something like that, it doesn't stand politically. She's dangerous and she's only one step away from that, that there are suggestions that the markets are called the names of the Quisling. I can't give you that political talent. You have it or you don't, but don't be so arrogant, we've made many mistakes in our history. What we are telling you is the position of the Jewish people in Serbia, of all religious communities in Serbia and of the parliamentary political party. If these three attitudes are publicly announced, for you to destroy the reputation of the Assembly, believe that the problem is in you, not in us. We tell you once again: there was a Holocaust in this land. I read to you, not some regulation, but a regulation that the Serbian government, the Presidential Council, called, brought about the confiscation of property to citizens of Jewish nationality in Serbia in 1941. (President: Two minutes. One more sentence and I won't do it again. He said that the only little attempt this congregation could make was to admit it and to oppose it, so that such a thing would never happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60662	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, right to replication. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60663	In my replica, I have never questioned whether the seized property should be returned to all of which the property was taken away. This is the basic principle of correcting the injustices that have been done to a large number of people, not only Jews, but Serbs and members of other national communities. I'm not questioning that at all. I'm questioning whether what was in any way decided during the enemy occupation is true or not? The fact is, in FNRJ's Official Journal, no. 86/46, 105/46 and 96/47, so another FNRJ passed a law on the non-essentialness of legal regulations passed before 6 April 1941 and during the enemy occupation. Legal regulations in Article 1, legal regulations, laws, regulations, orders, rules and other provisions adopted by the authorities of the occupation authority and their assistants in the area of the FNRJ, during the enemy occupation, shall be declared as non-existent. I was just discussing the part. Everything that was brought in then doesn't exist. The second question is whether someone based on the absence of an enrolment or a change in the Tapi system. It's a lot easier with us in Vojvodina, because we had land books, so he could sort of ask for a cancellation of the enrolment. In other parts of Serbia where there are Tapi books, it still goes a little harder. Anyway, every decision does not apply, or does not exist. As for the principle at all, that every injustice should be corrected, absolutely by its own opinion, that any injustice should be corrected. In view of the very relationship with the Jewish people, do not talk about it. The Lalovic family, it is known that my grandfather, among other things, helped survive during World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60664	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60665	Lack of answers to a simple question. Instead, a bunch of technical information I haven't even slowed down for you. What I have asked you is, is this the return of property? I'm telling you it's not. This act, which you mention, will defend the society whose injustice we are correcting today, because together with this act, acts have also been adopted to take away property from everyone in this country. If that is an argument that this law does not mention a group that has suffered, besides the Roma, the greatest persecution and thus justifies the name of Serbia, I can only tell you that, either you have a bad intention, or you don't understand what I'm talking about. Technically, you might be right, or maybe you're wrong. Politically, that act you're defending has brought no consequence. The act has not returned property to the Jews in Serbia. That's one of the three things I mentioned. The second is that when they went to Israel between 1948 and 1953, their property was taken away by being forced to give up their citizenship. The third is that you can't afford an asset that doesn't have an heir to sell and build a memorial center for dead Jews. Does that mean it's justified to kill a man, take his money and build him a monument? This is a serious house, and it must say that the act itself is taking away property from one nation is immoral, unpolitical, and unacceptable for this congregation today. It's a political message we're asking to put into this law, in the same way as we think is a legitimate political message, that property was taken away by these forty other points also unacceptable and not civilizational. That's all we're talking about. Any relativization of this is unacceptable for the citizens of the Jews, because they are asking us to. It's not about mine and your feelings, it's about theirs, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60666	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60667	It's about returning property to every single individual and everyone from whom the property was taken, regardless of whether the building in Pancheva, Žarko Zrenjanina 17 was obtained or not, and we Pančevci know very well. Not only that, too, every other hijacked property with paper or no paper, or in fact, should be subject to review. The fact is that many, not only Jews, but Serbs, Roma and many others, have lost not only without property, but also headless. We know the same thing in Pancheva very well. Since October 1944, the Petrovic family, Stefanovic and Gajic, as well as many others who have lost both property and head.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60668	A circle of replicas has been completed. (Ivan Andric, from the place: Replica. ) National MP, when I say that the circle of replicas is over, I say that because I care about the order of the session and I listen carefully to what every single MP says, which I can repeat to you and what, by quoting what the MPs have said, I justify or explain to anyone who is interested in why I give the replica. Now the circle of replicas is over. (Ivan Andric, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60669	The 107th article has violated the dignity of the National Assembly by ignoring the fact that one MP advocates correcting a political injustice, and as arguments against it...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60670	People's MP, what you're trying to say can't be an excuse for hurting Members 107. Please don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's as serious an instrument of freedom and justice as anything else, and it's just as serious to abuse freedom and rights. (Ivan Andric, from the scene: do I have the right to speak in two minutes? I thank you. (Ivan Andric, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure again? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60671	Article 27, with article 107, where I have two minutes to expose my violation of the Rules of Procedure to which you will answer me...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60672	People's MP, you have no right, if I conclude that you are abused by a member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to, because by the same member you are calling for to use the instruments of freedom and rights, I have an obligation to impose criminal measures on you. What's obvious doesn't need to be proved. Thank you. MP Zika Gojkovic has a word after him, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Ivan Andric, from the place: I thank you too. How does Mr. Mikovic have the right to a replica and I don't? Please give me the right to a replica or to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Only DS deputies can have that right. You can do anything. Do I have to join the DS to have that right? You want to give me access? ) I ask MP Ivan Andric not to disturb the session. You have no right to a replica. Please don't disturb the session. Don't interfere with the session. MP Zika Gojkovic was given the right to speak. You can't interfere with the MP until he's got his word. People's MP, please read the Rules of Procedure and do not cause incidents at the National Assembly session. You can't abuse rights. People's MP, please take your place wherever you want and listen to MP Zika Gojkovic. Go on, MP. (Ivan Andric, from the place: This is not a school or a barn. You want to give me 30,000 tickets as a "Cockie"? Is that next? )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60673	I hope this time I can continue without interruption. Today we're talking about a very important law, at least when it comes to SPO. We feel that a fair and serious debate is necessary. That's why I'm sorry Mr. Secretary doesn't attend the afternoon debate. Since 1945, laws have been passed in the one - party congregation that violate human rights and take away private property. Such laws, regulations and decrees, unfortunately, are still in force today 65 years later. From 1941 to 1948, many honest hosts lost everything they had, often their lives, for one reason only because they thought differently or, worse still, because their property was liked by one of the liberators. All those who have survived the terror of the communists, 70 years of living as second-class citizens, and at the same time we have a group of short-terms, tycoons, who have enormously enriched in the 1990s, and who today buy the highest-quality buildings and land that are sought by the property owners. It's also a symbol that these people who have made a fortune in the '90s have become rich at a time when the state has failed and when our people have lost both their homes and their families and their jobs until then. That is why I think it is too emphasising the emphasis on modesty that is very often mentioned when we talk about this law, in solving this problem, other than being hypocritical, throwing a great shadow at the essence of the restitution process. Thus, the importance of restitution in Serbia's process of introducing democratically organised and stable states of the modern civilised world has been neutralized. If the privatisation had been passed before the restitution laws and property laws and other real rights, as the SPO proposed in 2000, it would have been resolved to suspend the continuity of property created by the violent seizure of land and objects during World War II and after the will of the ruling oligarchs and legally and legitimately acquired rights would have been permanently protected. This model I am quite sure would be an obvious indication that the political system in Serbia has finally transformed into a democratic one, as if the Serbian government's priority is to strengthen the middle civil layer that is the basis for the stability of each normal and European state. As a result, the SPO sees the problem of returning the seized property as it saw 21 years ago. Addressing this problem can only be done fairly through a mixed model in which restitution prevails, i.e. physical vomiting. If it is not possible to do so with a natural restitution, the only other way is a natural substitution in the form of other state-owned assets, with financial compensation, and thus a burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget, to be negligible. I'd like to ask Mr. Krasic, if you could just give me a minute. I always have respect...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60674	Please do not address the other participants of the session. It's my job to warn respect for the rules of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to address other participants.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60675	I'm sorry, but you don't use your right at all, and as long as I'm saying it, someone's going in there all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60676	You can't talk to me either. I'm taking care of it. Continue your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60677	The restoration of pastures, forests and agricultural land is also possible, as is the conversion with state property of the same value. These are the facts, but also the foundation of the SPO programme, not only of our parties, but of Serbia's European right. Unfortunately, this programme has not yet seen the light of day, at least when it comes to power in Serbia. Therefore, the restitution for us from the SPO is not only the correcting of past injustices, nor is it a symbolic breakup with the communist heritage. For us, restitution represents one final reckoning with a system based on a war crime, a crime against its own people. I also believe, and I think that Mr Djelic said something similar, that this will be a very good text as we as a people are ready for national trust, but as well as how ready we are for the EU. The basic problem that comes to mind when we talk about this law and the general place where they sort of break spears is the issue of substitution. We believe this law only makes sense if natural substitution is included in it. Justice can't be partial to us. We find it not strange that many are wondering whether this law is only for the sake of the EU or because we want to correct something. Maybe words aren't enough to explain this, but numbers are inexorable. At this point...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60678	People's MP, I'm sorry. I would ask MP Zoran Krasic not to disturb MP Ziku Gojkovic. I apologize once again to you for three interruptions, but simply, the MPs do not want to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Excuse me one more time and proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60679	At this point, i.e. in 2006, some 76 united requirements that have been filed in order to restore property. According to some estimates, it's about half a million and a million people who expect at least to be compensated in some way by this restitution law. 95%, of the total amount of what is sought, 95% are agricultural land, forests and pastures. About 4% are building land, about 4% in Belgrade itself are looking for building land. When we talk about the substitution being necessary and feasible, then it should be said that it owns Serbia's state 40 times the forest land, 20 times the building land and 40% more farmland. For example, from the Somboro from which I come I can say that 13,000 has been sought for agricultural land, and that it is owned by the state of 27,000 ha. When we talk about the property of public enterprises, there is only a devastating situation, which is that we do not have a serious list of assets with which the largest public enterprises have, and we have serious doubts that this property is not being used as it should and that it could certainly enter into mass in the matter of substitution in the adoption of this law. In the past, the SPO has made a number of good proposals. I'll only list one that directly refers to the question of substitution. It'll be a privilege to the investors in the building. We think it's a great idea, not only when it comes to the restitution law, but when it comes to increasing investment in the building and what might be even more important, although not part of today's debate, it's a question of corruption. Right at the level of local self-government, when it comes to buildings, where taxes and various certificates are issued, we are witnessing a major corruption. This proposal would not only bring about a new mass when it comes to the division of assets in the restitution, but certainly, if not completely thrown out, it would certainly reduce the issue of corruption. I have to say, it's constantly talking about the amounts the damaged are looking for. It calls for hypocritical modesty, and almost nowhere we can hear that exactly the state is the biggest winner in the process of restitution. This should be made clear that the vast assets that need to be subject to restitution do not have their own owners, unfortunately, have no successors and state in that case for the first time in a long time that property can certainly be entered in its name and thus appear before foreign investors. There were also words here about Kosovo. I would not enter that topic, because I am sure it would cause a series of replicas of various patriots and those who think drilling into the chest is the only way to protect Kosovo. I am sure that the SPO was the one who listened in the 1990s, when we talked about the need for a law on restitution, that today the situation in Kosovo would be completely different, because we all know that private property is being treated in the West. Otherwise, when we talk about restitution, the very object of restitution is caused by many absurdities, from what I just said was an impossible substitution, to perhaps the greatest absurd -- that Milosevic is the only one who has returned some of the taken property from the country so far. Since the start of multilaterals through all democratic parties, all of us sitting here need to put our finger on the head so we can ask ourselves how is it possible that a representative of a totalitarian regime in the 1990s has had the strength to return some of the property, and that 11 years since the democratic revolution there is no good will to pass a fair law? It's said that the conditions are the same for everyone, and I say discrimination is at every turn. For example, agricultural land that has become a building land is being returned, while other bonds are returning. Then, the priority is to return to nature. All of us who come from families who have been taken away from their property and who have suffered 70 years for this law to finally see the light of day, we know very well how small the chances are and how few people will be able to regain their assets in nature. It was also said that they gave up the substitution because they were suggestions from Slovenia and some other countries. I haven't seen any other reason, and I haven't heard the other reasons. If you allow me one of your own personal views, I think the basic reason why there is no fair law on restitution is that there are still a large number of people in almost all parties who are children of the communists and who today do not feel their heart and do not need to be fair, unfortunately, so our path to the EU takes this long. The principles on which this government is formed are principles that the SPO has consistently implemented and we are ready to clean up all obstacles on our European path, especially when it comes to human rights. That's how we acted in the past, that's how we'll always behave. Although we submitted the bill two years ago, for the second time, for the first time, we submitted it to our coalition partners during the government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2004, I must say that there is very little similarity to this text that is today in front of MPs, especially those essential parts that speak in the substitution. That is why, on behalf of the SPO, I have submitted some twenty amendments, which I will discuss in particular, which, in our opinion, are extremely important if we want a fair restitution. These amendments are not only amendments to our party, but primarily amendments to all those who, almost 70 years later, feel deceived, all those who, after 70 years, feel to the citizens of the second order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60680	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as authorised representative of the SRS Mr Dejan Mirovic said, the SRS is against the adoption of a law on the return of seized property and compensation, for several reasons. First of all, the bill, and those who represent it, and those who defend it, goes from one false assumption, that the confiscation of property at the very end of World War II took place in an unfair way, which was contrary to legal regulations. If you take Article 2. The bill will show that the confiscation of property, i.e. the transfer of private property to state, cooperative, social or general national property, has taken place on the basis of certain legal rules. If we were to examine whether all these legal regulations were just, in terms of some earthly or celestial justice or any philosophical ideals of justice, then we could do so in relation to the laws passed, for example, by this assembly of the National Assembly. Secondly, who says that all those seized after World War II acquired that property in a legal and fair manner? My esteemed colleague, Žika Gojkovic, spoke of some tycoons who made themselves rich during the 1990s, while the people were poor, while the state was bleeding, under sanctions, bombed, etc. Mr. Gojkovic, that's what happened after World War I. Do you know what was the current song, a monstrous song, but it's really true, which was sung in Serbia right after World War I ended? "Some war, some brother, I'll live." While Serbian soldiers were killed on the Thessaloniki front, Mr Gojkovic and all of you from the ruling coalition, someone was rich then. Milunka Savic, the first-world war hero's wife, the famous Serbian military bomber, do you know how she ended her earthly life as a bathroom cleaner in Belgrade. By then, some were buying factories, mines, hotels, half of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia was theirs. Do you think all of this was in a fair way, in a moral way, in a legal way? Members of the SPI, I deliberately apostrophe them, because they were somehow most exposed to the public as representatives of restitution, property seized after World War II, say that the heritage of the tradition of the Radnogore movement and the Yugoslav Army in the country of General Draža Mihajlovic. Now, Mr. Gojkovic and you, Mr. Chikiriz, since you represent this party today, I will present some historical facts, and you will, on the basis of these facts, judge whether you are truly in the ideological sense of the heritage of the Garden Movement tradition. I have in my hands the minutes of the Jugoslav Army Youth Conference in the territory of Montenegro, Boka and Sandzak, held in Shahovici on 30 November 1942. Present are: Ambassador of the army, Navy and Air Force General Draža Mihajlovic, Major Zaharija Ostojić; Commander of the Chetnic squad of the Yugoslav Army in the country on the territory of Montenegro, Major Djordzija Lašić and Commander of Limsko-Sandzah Chetnik troops Major Pavle Djurisic. I have conclusions from that conference. Here is what some of these conclusions say: "The private property is guaranteed, and its scope must be limited by law in the general interest. The earth belongs to the one who processes it. The large private property must be abolished and put into the state's mood. This will facilitate the country's full solution to agrarian reform. The agrarian question must be fully and justly resolved. The whole industry must be in state hands. The big store has to be in state hands, and the kid's in private, under state control. The economy should be built on the principle of state co-operation. Trade affairs, money and credit institutions must be in state hands." In point 10 of these conclusions, it is said: "It is mandatory to pass a law on the investigation of the origin of private property from 1918 until today", so until 1942, "and a law on criminal liability must be passed on to all those who contributed in any way to the collapse of the state". What do I mean? It is not an accurate thesis, in historical and political terms, that only the Partisans and only the communists were for nationalisation after World War II. The Yugoslav army in the country had almost the same attitude. Why? Because the Kingdom of Yugoslavia’s society has indeed been filled with social and social contradictions, such as today’s society. Then there were too many rich, those who were, according to Boris Tadic, rudely wealthy and those who were extremely poor. For radical social reforms in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were both communists and Montenegrins. It's just that they wanted to do it in a more slight form, and the communists wanted to do it in a revolutionary way. Essentially, in social terms, they did not differ, because both partisans and equinoxes came from the same social mile. All of it was less, more of a poor people, who cried out for a slightly greater degree of social justice. Besides, take the records of Bishop Nikolai. There are many critical words on the social system of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Remember his words: "For those who think six days a week of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, six days a week do ungodly works, and then the seventh day they come to church and say the fallen fat candles to God." Remember his words. What do we have to say, Serbs Stalin to teach Communism? Well, we all grew up in family cooperatives, where ten kids ate from the same bowl. I only said this to change this completely wrong idea that for this degree and for this kind of social reform there was only one anti-fascist movement in Serbia. It was the other one. What's the problem with this bill if it's adopted? Practically, this bill will allow Vojvodina to return to Germany. Most of the land properties in Vojvodina. When I tell the Vojvodina, I mean Baranja, because it was the Duke's, they were actually held by the Germans. If we're going to return the property that was seized after World War II, that means we're delivering Vojvodina to the German hands again. They owned large land properties, the highest quality houses, plants, factories, forests, etc. Yes, there were forests in Vojvodina, there are also today in Frusch Mountain, around Vrsac, etc. So, if we're going to return the property without any selection, then gentlemen, it means that we're returning Vojvodina economically to Germany, and in the long term, perhaps even politically. Why am I saying this? Today, the owner of huge land areas in Vojvodina is one Croatian tycoon, Ivica Todorovic, owner of the company Agrokor. Otherwise, he bought, say, a famous Diamond factory from Zrenjanin. What's he doing? From the Germans, the German company Fen gets new tractors, brand-new tractors, and then gives them without compensation to farmers in Vojvodina, and they have an obligation to return it for two, five or ten years, that tractor is returned through a certain amount of agricultural products. Do you think that's an accident? We used to laugh that HDZ meant Croatia to Zemun. But with the policy of all governments since 2000, in economic terms, this really means, because Croatians have actually come to Zemun economically. The highest quality land surfaces today in Vojvodina are held by Croats. I don't know if any other country in the world allows it, except for ours. Otherwise, Mr. Ivica Todorovic, for your information, may also be friends with one of the ministers in the current government, was convicted in 1971 because he participated in that famous mass movement in Croatia, so-called Croatia. MASPOK, and in 1990 he was financed by Tudjman's HDZ. As for these allegations of Holocaust victims, I just can't believe those who talk about it don't know the basic historical facts. Serbia, I am sorry that Mr. Andric is not here, Serbia and the Serbian people did not participate in the Holocaust of Jews. The Holocaust was but directed by the Germans, and when it came to Srem, it was directed by the Ustasha. The Serbs didn't kill Jews. As for this famous regulation, mentioned by Mr. Andric, it probably existed, but the regulation was brought simply because the manoeuvre of the Serbian government's national rescue of General Milan Nedic was very narrow. Milan Nedic did sign the Regulation, but not for ideological reasons, the Germans were in ideological terms against Jews, the Croatian Ustashas were in ideological terms against Jews. Nedic, in ideological terms, was not against the Jews, took over as president of the Serbian government of national salvation to preserve the Serb people from biological destruction in central Serbia, because the Germans clearly placed an ultimatum on him – or you will accept to be the president of that government, or we will give the rest of the Serbian state, to release the Ustashas, the arnauts and the Bulgarians. What would be left of Serbia if that man hadn't taken on such a difficult function? Well, probably nothing. The question is, would we even sit here today and talk about the restitution law? After all, let's open another question. Will some Jews, in a material sense, respond because of the sacrifices suffered by the Serb people because of their politics? Do you remember Madeline Albright? Do you remember who was commander of the NATO Pact during the 1999 aggression? People who were originally Jews. Do they have any obligation to Serbia and the Serbian people? Apparently they don't. All claims for damages to Jews in World War II need to be established by Germany, which occupied Serbia and should be exposed to the current Croatia, which is the heritage of Ustasha ideology, which Franjo Tudjman has openly admitted since 1990 - According to him, the Independent State of Croatia was not only, he said, a quincessic creation and a fascist crime, but an expression of the historical aspirations of the Croatian people. So why don't you tell Jadranka Kosor, who says Hashim Thaci is her best friend in the world. A man who traded with Serbian authorities can't tell her that. Tell them that this Croatian state, which today exists in the ideological and political sense, is the successor of Pavelic's independent state of Croatia. To them, issue an account for the compensation of Jews and Serbs who were killed in the territory of the Independent State of Croatia. I remind you that at the time of World War II, the Ustasha banner stormed both in Zemun and Surcin and New Belgrade and Petrovaradin. Don't forget those facts. As for what Mr. Varga said this morning, I fully understand his position as members of the Hungarian people and his request that the crimes that were committed against Serbs in Vojvodina by Hungarian occupiers be put on an individual not on a collective basis. I agree with that, but why is it that when it comes to us Serbs, the same principle is not applied? Hungarians are individually responsible, and we Serbs are collectively responsible. We should bring a declaration where we ourselves say, yes, we are as a people responsible for what happened, or what they told us to say happened, and it didn't actually happen. Why this selection? Well, I too, as a Serb, suffer Serbian victims, as well as a gentleman from SVM who hurts Hungarian victims and it is perfectly normal and it should not be condemned. Let's take one principle that applies to everything. Either individual responsibility is general and applies to everything, or collective responsibility is general, so it goes back to everything. Here is the question, as Dejan Mirovic said, of the principle of legal certainty. Excuse me, gentlemen, why should my children, why should your children, why should your grandchildren be responsible for something that happened 70 years ago? What is the basic form of restitution under this law? Technically, it's a natural restitution, but if you take article 18. The bill of law, you'll see that in 10 points, exceptions to natural restitution are standardized. This tenth point is even completely foggy, says – in other cases established by this law, what does that mean? That means financial restitution is primary. Excuse me, why should I separate my children from your children's mouth, or you from yours, that something that allegedly was wrong, which happened 70 years ago? So we're going to do one injustice, and the question is whether in all cases it was an injustice, to correct it by causing an even greater injustice. Do Serbian citizens have nothing better to do than to correct the wrong Drina, whose hotel, mine, or 100 hectares of land in 1945? I think Serbia also has more pressing business and more pressing concerns. After all, Mr. Djelic, I really don't understand how you think you're implementing this law and how do you think you're implementing a law on public property in a state that absolutely doesn't have a catastrophe? Today, we have thousands of disputes between private faces over an unsettled catastrophe. They're suing people, huge litigation is under way, litigation takes 10, 20, 30 years, people can't establish what's whose. And you, instead of pre-editing the cadastre, are preparing to pass a law on public property and a law on restitution. How do you plan to carry him out? Very difficult. You have a situation in Vojvodina that there was a system of land books and that system was good. Someone thought to stop it. In some municipalities in Vojvodina, you have a double system of keeping real estate records. For some villages is a relevant land book, for another part of the municipality are measuring cadastrian books, and very often these two records of immovableity are not in harmony with each other. The state still doesn't know what hers is. The province doesn't know what hers is. The municipality doesn't know what hers is, in terms of immovableity. In a situation where you don't know what it is, you're passing a law on restitution of public property. It will remain a dead letter in the paper, since some other laws have not previously been implemented and some other laws have not been passed that must have been passed. Not to say that the bill in legal terms is completely bad. Imagine what it says in Article 3, I couldn't believe: Article 3 of Section 1 of point 1 says: "under the property are taken away mobile and immovable things, as well as taken away enterprises." Then you could put in another comma, so – as well as taken away forests, pastures, meadows, sheds, chickens, hotels, etc. What's with the listing? Secondly, the definition of assets is not correct. Here are the people who are lawyers, lawyers, etc. The property, Mr. Djelic, is a set of rights and obligations, not a set of moving and immovable things. That's not true in some more unelemental legal sense. I really don't understand how it is possible that you have submitted an amendment that allegedly prevents users of the right to restitution from being persons who are members of the occupation forces that have acted on the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II and who are foreign citizens? Mr Djelic, are you familiar with one basic historical fact – when World War II lasted, those who belonged to SS units and Vermacht units on the territory of Vojvodina were not citizens of the German Reich, but citizens of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Under this amendment of yours, they and their heirs will have the right to return their property. I said this morning, in the field with Mr. Varg - the infamous seventh SS division "Prince Eugen" who committed mass crimes in the summer of 1942 at Kozari was made up of members of Germans from Vojvodina, so-called "Vojvodina". Folksdoucher. At a time when they killed Serbian women and children in Kozara, they were not German citizens but citizens of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia or, afterwards, the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia, the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, etc. What does that mean? That they or their heirs will have the right to return to them that, as you say, unjustly seized property? Even if there was no amendment of yours, even if there was still a formulation of the bill, a person who was a member of the occupation forces that acted on the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II, how do you think that official at the Agency for Restitution will be able to prove it? Only if he finds out by accident. Do you know of any man who belonged to the occupation forces, or his successor, who, in the request of restitution, will say – Please give me back 50 acres of land, you know, I was a member of the SS Unit during World War II. Who's gonna say that? No one will. How will the agency be able to find out about that fact? It was an accident. I don't think so. Why? Because the return procedure for the severance of property under this proposal is administrative procedure. What's the administrative procedure? One-sided. There's no other party in the process. How many of these, you think, are going to be conditionally, safe and moral people looking for their property, and who are going to say, you know, my grandfather used to kill Serbs during World War II? There aren't any. And there's an officer at that restitution agency of yours who'll only be able to find out by chance, because it's been 70 years. A lot of things haven't been discovered. A lot of things are still kept secret. Mr. Dejan Mirovic reminded you of one fact, how is it possible for the German ambassador to attend this proposal in public hearing about this bill? How is the Spanish ambassador not present? Or Irish? Or French? It's German. Do the Germans have any interest in this whole mix-up called restitution? They do. And what an interest, politically and economically. By adopting the Statutes of Vojvodina, by passing public property laws, by passing laws on restitution, by adopting a series of sublegal regulations, you, gentlemen of the government, are reviving Austria, the German Empire and Vojvodina as the northern part of Serbia again pushes into German hands. That's quite clear now. What will be left of this and this kind of Serbia with laws like this? Therefore, the SRS is most determined against the adoption of laws on restitution from ideological, legal, political, economic, because we are a national and state-owned party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60682	The word is Mr. Zika Gojkovic, so Mr. Andric Ivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60683	I am extremely respectful of this debate over this law, and therefore I will be very specific and very clear. I wouldn't answer if I wasn't called directly, but I'll try not to answer for the replicas anymore. I'll just say that I respect the SRS' position when it comes to the restitution law, and they're principled, as well as on some other issues. I have to say, it causes respect in people who do politics. Whether it's right or wrong, it'll show citizens in the election. But, Mr. Martinovic, I can't understand that you can distinguish between some tycoons that may come from Croatia or here, which are some of ours. None of them are ours. Especially those who got rich in the '90s. We are not interested in whether he came from Croatia, whether he came from somewhere else or whether it was Miskovic or someone else. I am telling you that this very Miskovic has the largest assets in Vojvodina and that the big question is whether this is why it is not returning to the substitution of agricultural land. Also, I am not only speaking on behalf of the Ravnog Movement, but I am speaking for all honest people, cults, intelligence, patriots and all those killed in Belgrade alone by several tens of thousands. They were mostly good hosts. It's just comparisons, for those who are drunk with communist movies like "Sutjeska", "Neretva", "Return Off" to say what a ratio of size is. During the whole of World War II, this I believe many do not know, I have had the opportunity to speak to historians who are not burdened with any ideology, only one German was killed. During the entire World War II and occupation in Belgrade, only one German was killed, and several tens of thousands of Serb hosts, who thought otherwise, who had and who represented monarchic intelligence, were killed in a few days. The SPO will always stand behind them and fight as long as we exist, no matter what percentage of votes we have in the elections and all of our policies will be based on exactly national reconciliation. (President: Time, Mr Gojkovic. Thank you. Just one more sentence, please. The SRS rhetoric is always the same when it comes to restitution – this will make a new injustice, the folks will come back, now they will take it away, probably with Canka and Hungarians Vojvodina, we will stay on Belgrade's pasture. I can only say that such rhetoric should be heard carefully...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60684	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Ivan Andric. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60685	Replica to Mr. Martinovic. I must say, I am pleased to hear a political attitude that is completely contrary to ours, based on more or less on the same or similar facts that we had in common. That's exactly the kind of problem we're living in. Since, in my opinion, unfortunately, the ruling majority lack politics, here's a chance for you to plead. So, the indisputable facts are that 31,000 Jews were killed in Serbia, the indisputable fact is that it was NDG ideology, the German occupation forces and the uncontestable fact is that most of these Jews were organised in a camp at the Old Fair, which was then under the government of Milan Nedic, but under the rule of the Independent State of Croatia. It is also true that Milan Nedic is a signator of a regulation that confiscates property for all Jews under the government he represents. That's the facts. It's two policies. One policy says it doesn't matter and we understand the motives. Those motives were to save the majority Serbian people. It is the policy of the Serbian Radical Party, I apologize if, more or less, I have tried to be correct and the policy of the LDP, which says – whatever motive it is, it is a crime and this assembly if it discusses this subject, it must give its opinion on the crime. It will be voted on by the Legislative Committee tomorrow and later by the Serbian Parliament. It's unacceptable for us, because in order to defend our victims, we must first condemn those crimes committed in ours. It's our policy and you have a policy of the Serbian Radical Party, I'm not saying value, which says crimes have also been committed against the majority peoples. You decide, gentlemen of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60686	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Martinović Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60687	If only you would tell me, Mr. Novakovic, whether to present Mr. Gojkovic or Mr. Andric. As for Mr Gojkovic's exposure, my distinguished colleague absolutely did not understand me. So it is not disputed that a German was killed in Belgrade. It is not disputed that the Germans were retaliating one for a table. No one's questioning that. These are the general known facts. I'm telling you, you're wrong about the social philosophy of the right movement. You believe that Draža Mihajlovic was in order to preserve in a social sense the situation that existed on 6 April 1941. He wasn't into it, he was against it. It was for social reform. It was for nationalization. It was for radical agrarian reform. After all, the nationalisation measures were not only resorted to by communists in Yugoslavia and Eastern European countries. Nationalisation measures, various types of nationalisation have also been joined by the UK and Germany and France, etc. The era of liberal capitalism was abandoned in the 1930s with economic policy and economic philosophy of John Maynard Kanez. The policy drew Western states from the major economic crisis in the late twenties and early 30s. The state has begun to interfere in economic life. It was not the specifics of the communist Yugoslavia. As for what Mr. Andric said, the word holocaust in Hebrew means - burnt offering. So the victim of the holocaust is the one who was killed in the holocaust. If the holocaust is a confiscation of property, then the biggest victims of the holocaust Serbian citizens who have been robbed from 2000 to today, and in that, Mr. Andric, I'm sorry, were also involved in your party, because if the holocaust is taking property away from the Jews, then what is selling candy for three euros? And it's a holocaust.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60688	The word is Mr. Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60689	On the charge that the LDP is a holocaust, I have nothing to say. I think he's just saying that about himself. It wasn't me, Mr. Martinovic, who said that just because the property was taken away was a holocaust. I also cited that 31,000 Jews died during the occupation authorities in Serbia. This was done by the occupation authorities, and this was helped by the Quislin authorities headed by the government of Milan Nedic. That's where we differ. You may find some motive or good faith or reason why what was done was done and why Milan Nedic assumed that kind of responsibility. She's unacceptable to us. It is unacceptable because the result was such and the cause of these struggles was such that any other justification is not possible. I still believe that today such a monster of fascism is being repeated or I want to believe that all of the people in this congregation would be on the side of fighting Fascism, not looking for a reason to survive but to adapt their actions, their work, their way of life to that. If that's not the case, it'll be my great regret. What I'm telling you is that responsibility exists. I think the obligation of this assembly, regardless of some decisions of the FNRJ, as they tell us from the ruling coalition, is to declare it in accordance with the debate on this law. Why do I say it's a commitment? Because that's what the victims are asking us for, asking for the Union of Jewish municipalities, and for that he has received the support of all religious communities in Serbia – SPC, Catholic churches and all other traditional religious communities. We can't remain silent on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60690	Thank you, Mr. Andric. The word will be given to Mr. Martinovic as a right to replication and this is what we end this round, and then Mrs. Kolundžija. (Zoran Ostojić, from the post: according to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60691	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order to avoid any confusion, no one is questioning either as a party, I as a man, as a parent, deeply regretting all Jews and all innocent people, regardless of the nation and religion that were killed in Serbia during World War II. What I'm trying to convince you, Mr. Andric, was a holocaust, but there was no participation in the Holocaust of Serbs. The Holocaust was directed by Germans, as directed by Germany's Holocaust in both Germany and Hungary and northern Italy and Romania, Bulgaria and Poland. Wherever the German occupation boot set foot, they ran the same policy. Nedic, as far as I know, had nothing to do with fascism in ideological terms. A man found himself in such a position that in June 1941, his son, daughter-in-law and grandson died in the explosion at Smederev Fortress. The man lost his family. He was put before the ultimatum – either you will accept to be president of the government or there will be no more Serbian and Serbian people. You who are such advocates of anti-fascism, Mr. Andric, why do you today support the NATO Pact, a couple of exellanas fascist organizations? (Ivan Andric, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60692	We're done with this. No one's entitled to a replica anymore. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji. (Zoran Ostojić: from the place: How did we end up? ) (Ivan Andric: from the place: I was named by name and last name, give me the right to participate in the debate. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60693	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I call on article 107. I think we really need to take care of how this debate is going. So there can be no basis for a replica that one has a different attitude, and then different ideological political attitudes are calculated in replicas. So it is very clear that the Rules of Procedure are defined in which case the right to replica can be sought. I think that mistake was made an hour ago and something and it's still going on. I think the debate should run in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Everyone has the right to express their views. The only thing I think you're obliged to do is that when a MP presents his political views or political views of his party, he insults other peoples or other states, then you have to act. So it is an insult to the dignity of this institution, when someone defending their views offends other peoples. I just want to say one more thing. No one should worry about whether DS watch will defend every victim and whether DS will find the best way to position itself against fascism and antifascism, crime and sacrifice. Don't worry, we'll know for sure that we're setting ourselves up, as we've already known. I don't think it's even right to ask such a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60694	Thank you. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: according to the Rules of Procedure. ) (Ivan Andric, from the post: according to the Rules of Procedure. Please calm down, don't throw away. There's an electronic system, there's a pattern. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the People's MP Mr Andric Ivan. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Club bosses have the advantage. Mr. Aligrudic, you will get the word of this moment. Excuse me, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60695	Injury of Article 27. Is it possible, Mr. Novakovic, you are now the chairman, that it does not matter who is changing at the presidency, because it is the principle. Don't take it personally. I'm talking to you as a function in front of me. Is it possible that we, as MPs in this House, are finally given equal treatment by the chairman? Will it ever be in this House? Is it possible at some point that one MP would get a replica just because he's a member of a committee, and on that basis he's speaking on that basis, and in the second moment, the other MP is talking about the right to replication and holding a two-minute vacuum, that's the head of the Kolundzija Parliament Club, and that you don't even mention him once, and that your presidential predecessor, Gordana Comic, is taking away the word in the explanation of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure after five seconds, if a discussion on the right of replication is mentioned? We've heard a minute and 30 seconds of Mrs. Kolundji's time, giving you a lecture on who has and who doesn't have a right to a replica. Come on, please, let's all have the same rights in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60696	Mr. Aligrudic, you know the Rules of Procedure as well as I do, and you know that law or no right to replication can't be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Then why didn't you warn her? Please, Mr. Aligrudice, don't throw away and calm down. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Calm down, you.) Calm down. I'm totally dead 'cold, no worries. My health is fine, thank God. Excuse me, Mr. Andric, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60697	Article 107, and I'm going to end this circle of replicas. Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm talking to you. The whole circle of replicas... (President: You cannot contact another MP. For God's sake, let me warn you. You've been given your word to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to. Here you go. Mr. Novakovic, calm down and let me finish. Article 107, but if you allowed someone to address me directly, I logically expected that I would be allowed to address someone else, but to honor you, at least that's clear. We'll never hear from you again unless there's a new need. This chain didn't start us. This chain was started by a man who started the replica completely unfounded, waiting for us to get out of the O.R., and then responding when we weren't there just for the arguments we had chosen from the ones we had given. They only repeat once again, because we really have no intention of compromising this debate in any way. The Union of Jewish municipalities has asked this assembly to introduce a provision in the first article of this law that will restore the property of Jews kidnapped by the government of Milan Nedic, according to a regulation I read here. This view of the Union of Jewish municipalities was supported by all religious communities. We say that it is politically important to accept that attitude. There is no real argument that this attitude is rejected. It's a very important political position, we don't have time to explain to every MP individually why it's important, but I just said that you choose. You have two attitudes, one and the other. These are political views, not technical explanations as to how it will actually be possible or not be possible. It's about trying to establish justice over the victims. That's all it's about. I'm sorry, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister wasn't here, but I'm sure with the insight into the stenogram notes, he'll find out what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60698	Thank you, Mr. Andric. There's no more right to the replica. This is where we ended this debate. I think everyone has made their views very clear and I thank you all. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Can you speak for me on Voting Day?) The one you're talking about? Of course he can. The assembly will declare your proposal in the voting day. I give the word to Miss Natasha Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60699	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the problem of restitution is clearly being denied by all those who, either in politics or outside it, consider the problem to be minor over time. The problem of returning the property that was seized after World War II seems to be gaining more and more weight over time. The questions raised by this bill and the public debate, including the debate that has been being held in the last few hours in this assembly, confirm that it is a deeply controversial issue, which is still capable of waking up old ideological initiatives. Whether we will ever overcome them depends on how willing we are to consider historical facts in an objective way, but also to correct injustices. Conversation on the return of property seized after World War II is not only a matter of rights and not of rights, but of justice and injustice, because the laws that were passed to confiscate property from citizens after 1945 were unfair. That's why we're talking about correcting injustice. Every government here since 2000 seems to have seen the issue of restitution as too hot potatoes. She was transferring it to the next government to get rid of him. Of course, it would have been much better and many problems would have been solved, which we are facing today, if the restitution had been done at the same time or at least before with privatisation. It would also be more consistent that in 2005, with the Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets, it was envisaged that the assets listed, registered with credible documentation, at least except for further privatisation. It wasn't done either. So over the last few years, we've been witnessing that last year we privatized some property that was even similar to natural restitution, but it was privatized. These are some inconsistencies and some of the injustices that we've all done together. There have been different parties in power since 2000 and here, but these are the facts we have to face. This is an extremely important law. First of all, it is important because it corrects a great injustice committed against many citizens of this country. On various grounds, people have been taken away from the woods, and the land, and the dwellings, and houses and shops, and from those ideological discussions that have been ideologically intrinsically intrinsically in our public for the last decades and recent months. All these citizens are mostly represented as some exploiters, as great owners, as enemies of the people and enemies of the party. In fact, they were ordinary citizens, citizens who, through their work or work for several generations, gained something, with their knowledge managed to create something. There were craftsmen, teachers, doctors and professors. Each of these families who were the victim of these injustices then experienced a huge family tragedy that was often followed both by political and economic dissent. That's what's important to say and look at it. It is important that we treat this injustice as a country that wants to develop on the principles of what makes Europe a liberal tradition. Another reason why this law is extremely important is because it affirms the values on which we want to build our community today. If we intend to build a market economy, and we intend to, if we want to encourage a private initiative and spread the entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurial culture, if we want to create a stable and secure community in which citizens want to invest and build their creative entrepreneurial potentials, then it is necessary to correct this injustice, because correcting this injustice shows that we are ready to build a different relationship between the state and citizens and that is what is important for the future. How do you correct this injustice today 60 or 70 years after it was committed? It is certain that these 60, 70 years have made many changes in the lives and those who have been victims of this injustice and in the lives of all other citizens, both institutionally and economically, etc. It would no doubt have been better if we could ensure that everything taken away from those taken away on a political or ideological basis. I have to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60700	Excuse me, Miss Vuchkovic, one moment. People's MPs, please bear in mind, you are not required to sit in the hall. If you are already in the O.R., please be quiet and follow the exposure and do not disturb Miss Vuckovic in her presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60701	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, it would be better if we could get back everything that was taken away on a political and ideological basis if it was taken away. I agree with those who have already said in the debate that it is absolutely unacceptable to return property to those who were members of the occupation forces, because it would be relativisation and fascism and anti-fascist values. I don't think it's justified that any confiscation is equal to nationalization. That's something I think we need to avoid in the rehabilitation process that's being conducted in front of the court. It is important that we bear in mind that the European value is the protection of property rights, but the European value and anti-fascist attitude that must be consistently implemented in all the laws passed by this country. As far as returning is concerned, we are a poor country and I think we all share the same opinion in this regard. The public interest is to take care of both the present and future generations and what makes our community develop. It is certain that these circumstances in many ways determine both the possibilities and ways and the dynamics of the return of the seized property. Did the law set those limits in a fair way? Could he have been more liberal in some segments? I'd point to a few solutions, where it seems to me that a more liberal solution was possible. Let's take article 18, which speaks of exceptions to return in natural form. Article 1(2) provides for the exemption from the return in natural form of all official buildings and business premises which are not used by the state authorities of autonomous provinces, local self-government units and even local self-government authorities. Was it necessary to go that far? We know that the authorities of the local government are very often in the business premises of some former cooperatives whose work has been stopped or banned, etc. It's something we can talk about. Also, the question arises – is it justified to exclude from returning in natural form what is provided for in point 7), which is the immovable property owned by the Republic of Serbia, which is intended for the accommodation of foreign diplomatic and consular representations. It may have been possible to solve it in another way. Also, when we talk about the exemption from return in natural form, I'd like to draw attention to the article. 16 and 17 of the Law, where it is intended not to restore immovableity if that immovableity is built up, or if its surface is increased, without indicating a certain percentage of the subsequent increase in surface area and immovableity. That would be much fairer, because in this way it turns out that the former owner was prevented from looking for natural restitution, even if the immovableity that belonged to him had been increased by, say, 10% of the total area. I think that's how some solutions should be changed. Second, equality for the sake of, if the law provided for, and is, the right to return or compensation to the duties, or to their legal followers, as provided for in Article 5, then it would be fair and in accordance with the principle of equality to recognise the right and associations of citizens who existed before the Second World War, which, many, also spread progressive ideas, whose work was prohibited. After 1945, many of them restored their work over the past 10 or 15 years by even the same members, as before World War II. Consider, for example, Falcon societies and similar organizations that are now members of international organisations of these associations. It is about private associations of citizens who then invested their assets in certain assets. I think it would be fair and in accordance with the principle of equality to provide for them the right to return, or compensation. In the end, I would like to invite the government to carefully consider all amendments that have been submitted, because, at least as far as DS is concerned, they are to be submitted to the greatest extent of the correction of the injustice and to present the citizens we represent in the best way possible. I would like to say that it is very good and commendable that the government has managed to draft this law at this very moment, above all, the great economic crisis and the great difficulties we face in the country at an economic level. I think that just the application of this law will show to what extent we were serious when we proposed and adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60702	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Shami has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60703	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, what I believe we'll all agree to at first, it's undeniable to pass a law on the return of property. The reasons for doing this were somewhat heard here. One thing is to correct a historical injustice against people who have been kidnapped by property, who still need to be happy if they have kept their heads on their shoulders, and unfortunately many are not. There was also a reason - EU demands, but in fact, one group of reasons was not heard. By returning property, we send a clear message to the world that for this country, private property is sacred, and that no one should doubt that if they invest money in this country, someone will take it away from him. Unfortunately, and we'll see about that later, the messages of this law are just the opposite. It still benefits the state, because by returning the property, it will later be said, it creates the possibility for the state to benefit from the tax that it can charge for the property. However, the problem with this law arises already in Article 1 which provides for the return of property. It is said – the property is being taken back after 9 March 1945. The trouble is that the kidnapping of property here began on April 15, 1941. The Vermaht began and it was the largest part of the Jewish but not only Jewish but also Serbian property, especially in villages where the Germans had a majority. What happened to that property later? And that's interesting for a solution to this law. That property was being sold by Vermaht, so you have the owners of the hijacked property that became the owners of the Second World War. With money from the sale, Vermaht supported Serbia's occupation costs. Secondly, not all cases of abduction are covered from autumn 1944 to March 1945, then there are more than 10,000, some say, we will not bid now, but 10 thousand certainly, people without any court decisions killed and declared as enemies of the people, after which they were taken away from their property. It's not covered. Later, one of those cases was covered by subsequent court decisions, but most of it wasn't. We do not give these people the right to return property, and almost without exception it was people whose only fault was that they had some property and that was the reason to be declared enemies of the state. We're not returning that. By the way, it seems like an extreme... Should I wait for Mrs. Kolundji to finish? Don't stop time for me. So it seems extremely cynical, speaking of taken property, from the holocaust, which happened, that when it comes to the property of Jews who don't have heirs, and there's quite a lot of them because the entire families were killed, from small children and beyond, that we, because we don't know what we're going to do with that property behind that money, that we're going to make out of these couples a memorial center. The state needs to build a memorial centre, it costs 100,000 - 200,000 euros, the state can pay out of its funds, and that money needs to be resolved in some useful way, in agreement with the Jewish community in Serbia. You know, it would be just like if you took my property, so we said, "We took your property well." We'll give you a monument when you die. Third problem - who doesn't have a right? You're in Article 5, very ok. proposed, you had quite one orderly formulation that says – a person who was a member of the occupation forces etc. Now you're changing it by amendment, and even now we can't even try to change and say it -- the face of a foreign citizen. Excuse me, were there any members of the Serbian occupation forces at the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia? It was. And all sorts of nationalities. There were Hungarians, there were Croats, there were Serbs, there were Bulgarians, ballistics, all of our citizens. There were Serbs in the handiwork division. By nationality were Serbs of Muslim creeds, were in the hands of the division and fought by Germans in Russia. There were Ustashas, of course, Croat members of the Ustasha army. What about them? They have the right to return property. They've got this law. Next, the methods of return. The possibility of a replacement is lifted. Why? In doing so, beware, you have a situation where someone was taken away from agricultural land. As a child, believe me, I played in the corn in the middle of the Dushanovec. They were corn. If someone had that field at the time and someone took it away from him, of course they can't get that field back where the ten-story is now. But it can give him a field five kilometers away. Why not? In doing so, the state rather than giving money, giving the field, that the future owner must process it, must pay taxes etc. There will still be opportunities to discuss this further on the subject of amendments. We have submitted a lot of amendments for good purposes, so they will be in debate on the amendments to the times. In the end, I'll just give you one grade. This is one bad and hypocritical law. I'd have great respect for you, Mr. Djelic, for having to defend him. That it's not one detail, one of my impressions, which is that you're defending him with something a little too passionate. And believe me, I'm worried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60704	The word has Aleksandar Jugovic, and after Mrs Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60705	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, this is a very important topic, this is part of the SPO programme, the 20-year programme and the fight. There was a controversy here about antifascism. There was a controversy over the restitution. The controversy about anti-fascism is good and it is known that these may be the greatest historical fluids Serbia carries, and that is what we should be proud of, that we had two anti-fascist movements. One Partisan and one of the others is equilateral. But those who fought the occupiers as members of the Partisan movement, many of them used that victory to kill their ideological opponents after the end of the war, to take away their property, to take away their families killed for reasons only because they thought otherwise to expose tortures and life in fear of decades afterwards. Correcting historical injustice is not a process that can only be solved by restitution. Full rehabilitation, restitution, file opening, and lustration. The question for this government and for all the governments here since 2000 is what about opening files? In 2000, one of the main DOS promises was to open secret files. Why aren't they open? The government's staff, levers of criminal terror, death, secret police survived October 5th and continued to obstruct Serbia's European path. We can't talk about restitution, the liquidation of hundreds of thousands of people. We have a report from the government's commission on the 190 locations where the secret tombs were found, where patriots were killed, mostly members of the Ravnogor movement, because they lost the war or were defeated by their brothers. Communism has fallen everywhere in Europe. The Berlin Wall collapsed. The Soviet Union has fallen apart, and in Serbia the only victory from that communism is the one committed over the murdered brothers. It's a shame. The law on restitution, which the SPO advocated for 20 years and showed it by its political struggle, would not have been brought in by the SPS, the SRS, or the DSS which did not exist at that time in 1991, when the law was passed to parliament to return SPC property with 70,000 ha of the country and 1,800 objects and when the law was passed in the Serbian parliament. Milosevic with his suspension veto returned the law to parliament in a re-proceeding procedure, and of course he never found himself on the agenda again. Is it the defense of our interests in KIM, that the Serbian methites get their country back in 1991? Who voted and who proposed the law? He's asking why you've been waiting 11 years? The minister says there's no ideal model. Of course there's no ideal model. Five decades of life in fear under the eternal torture, by nature things can't replace anything and can't fix anything. However, the model can be more ideal if a set of laws are adopted to monitor the restitution. First of all, I mean the law on opening secret files, because that would determine who these people were who were stalking their brothers, their neighbors, who were these "marks" who declared people traitors or enemies of their own country. In this way, with the pressure of the EU alone, we are passing the law after all the new wrongs that have been done since 2000 in here that have been committed to the old owners. First of all, I think that a lot of property has gone into hands, gone into the pockets of the tycoon, and now there is no political, economic or any other state's will to make it right. We've been repeating, you've been in power, you've been doing great. We keep saying, we keep saying that the reckoning with everything that Serbian citizens have damaged in this case, people who are interested in getting their property back over Serbia, to see who privatised other people's property in some way, and who was going to privatise the property he knew would return to the old owners. It is very important to note that the injustice committed to Serbian citizens, of some anti-fascists who I repeat my victory over fascists, used to deal with murdered brothers, is that we must, and for the sake of the European path, bring a clear view of what is happening. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe by Resolution 1481 seeks the condemnation of all crimes of the totalitarian regimes of the former communist countries, thus asking this parliament. What happened to that? Nothing. No law can restore the time spent, which has been thrown into service of those who took over the positions and positions and privileges and privileges of Slobodan Milosevic and all those who made the order of the accident in the 1990s. Now I wonder why, and I hope that the Minister will answer that on the Committee of the Restitution Agency cannot be seated by a man who has applied for his property to be returned to him. So who's gonna sit down? Will the children or those who took their property be seated? Will historical injustice be corrected by those who wronged the people of Serbia. Why can't the court complex go back to the king? And even today, in Dedinj, they can signify that they are using houses they have taken from Serbian hosts, bankers, intelligence, wealthy merchants. The SPO is not absolutely satisfied with this bill, but the SPO is therefore also on the list for the 2008 SES will never compromise Serbia's European path. It is good and perhaps best for Serbia that Europe has finally started to prescribe rules that we must play by. This is why it is wrong to represent this as some kind of big initiative in parliament. This should have been done without the pressure of Europe. This was supposed to be done right after October 5th. This leaves a bitter taste for us to pass a European law because we must bring it without bringing it for a reason because it is in favour of the citizens of Serbia. I am sorry that the Rehabilitation Act has been withdrawn from the Assembly procedure, because it is very important and it should have been part of the Restitution Act and I am sorry that someone mistakenly interprets the anti-fascist struggle of General Mihajlovic's movement, and we heard just before lies spread today about it that it was for some kind of nationalisation for some different social concept, it was a movement that was pro-Westernly oriented, in the west no one was taking property, but forcing Serbia to return kidnapped property from its citizens. If by any chance the Ravnog Movement had won, we would have been part of the EU and we would not have experienced that the heirs of the ideology that it has taken are now correcting historical injustices. Once again, Serbia would now, because that too would be heard from the SRS Draž, together with Adenaur, Bego, Shuman, create the EU, be a large member of the EU and we would not have these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60706	You're welcome. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on the return of seized property and compensation as popularly called the Law on Restitution Colloquial i.e. He had said, "Undeserved great media attention for the last months and even years." And we heard a lot of arguments about and against the passing of this law, but several pearls that Mr Djelic spoke this morning really have to be commented on. He says, Mr Djelic, that this law, when applied, will give better results than privatisation in Serbia. So they hook us up, Mr. Djelic, if you compare this or anything in Serbia with privatisation, with so much crime, with so much corruption, with so much incarcerated, closed and only one who will be for crime in that privatisation. Or maybe you were thinking about those 1,000-euro shares? Furthermore, says Mr Djelic, the application of this law will attract investment, foreign investment in Serbia. Mr. Djelic, you also said that the economic crisis would attract foreign investment in Serbia, only when there was an earthquake in the Kingdom did you say that this would also attract foreign investment. You have this one story of yours and you have it and where you need it, and where you don't have to throw it, and what has nothing to do with it doesn't matter. You said you expected this law to contribute to the development of Serbia's employment. Mr. Djelic, here's a concrete proposal from your 11m euros to make some kind of debt, be your first employee, and let's congratulate you. You said you confessed this morning, and a few days ago you said that this law was not adopted because of the EU, but because it was for us, the bread was dried, approximately, and then your government colleagues, as who, who, appeared on TV and denied Mr Djelic and said, "This law is not being passed because it is an EU order." Mr Djelic, since you are properly fulfilling the EU's orders, I expect you to respond as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to tell us what is open to what is the condition that you received from Angela Merkel and the EU regarding the rounding up of the Cypriot state in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Do you know what's going on between September 16th and today in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? There's something you're not answering on the subject. It's obviously a finished story for you. God, he's not and he won't be. We were able to read in the media yesterday that in addition to all these conditions that you meet, what you like to say, agendas, on the way to the EU, but everything seems to me that there are more and more police officers on that road, and that they're a low trap for you, so you're curious often. On this European road, as your European friends say, Mr Djelic, you are seriously hampered by corruption and corruption at all levels of government and in all segments. Among other things, your European friends say, it is problematic whether you will get candidate status because the criminal law does not sanction bribement of MPs. Now I ask you, Mr. Djelic, when you talk to those Europeans, do you tell them that in 2008, you made an illegal composition of this parliament and that just because of the corruption, how Wikiliks informed the U.S. Liaison, Boris Tadic, Nikolic and Vukic, was created, something you call a parliamentary group here, based on stolen mandates. Is that what your Western friends who you're talking to about these European integrations might have meant? We remind you, Mr. Djelic, that on 8 June 2005, the Law on the Registration and Recording of Disposal of Assets was passed. At that time in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which was as European as you today, was sitting Mr. Parivodić, who was personally very interested in returning the property and was constantly present in the media as representatives of some who needed to return the property legally, of course, taken away. From then on, you knew you were going to pass this law, you're announcing it a long time ago. The question for you Mr. Djelic – who is responsible for having you by 8 June 2005 passed the law, 13 months after that July 2006 the list of those assets was completed. Who's going to answer because you're the property that you knew you'd pass the law to come back? You sold it for a Buddha why the tycoons would now be paid by the state under this law to those same tycoons for some sort of compensation. Have you done this by chance or consciously, Mr Djelic, and who is responsible for doing enormous damage in this way, financially, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Djelic, in the SRS as caring MPs, is it interest to consider how you will take care of Ruzica Djindjic, since the villa you gave her is completely unwarranted, the return theme, some family already reporting that she is returned to this villa, and, of course, not only that one, but I don't know yours of so many hundreds of millions on Dedinj, is she under the influence of this law? Further, Tomica Milosavljevic, then the Shutanite, and all of you, for your ranks according to the inheritance. Mr. Djelic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who will vote for this law, the SRS warns you that a historical injustice, and this was a historical injustice, cannot be corrected by the creation of new injustices. You are here, my colleague Martinovic, of course, noticed in Article 2 that he wrote 41 regulations, listed 41 regulations, the law, and three more seemed to have been added to me, will be added to the amendments of the ruling majority. So you've listed 44 laws on the basis of which the property you want to return has been taken away. If something was taken away by law, Mr. Djelic, how can he come back? How do you think you're drawing, crossing history, erasing history? It was time as it was, so in a few years or decades or so, believe that those who live in this pro-European treasonous policy and the government of Tadic will have a much worse opinion than we do today, we all have this period of the communist regime. So, the state of the country, there must be legal certainty, not every Djelic who shows up to change something that someone once passed, and who guarantees us that what you suggest is the best? We know it's not. Why did you set March 9, 1945 as the date from which the property was returned? I've been asking you all day, you just don't have an argument. We talk to you about arguments, we Serbian radicals are opposers of this law, and as you hear we're making an argument, we're not telling stories, we're asking you for arguments why this should be voted on. So why March 9, 1945? Why isn't the property back on the run? Do you know that Serbia's escapees had land? Why didn't you determine that period? You have managed here to ensure consent to pass the rehabilitation law, it is the only law that has been passed, or already exists, but it is not applied, and this is the only law where rehabilitated persons have a basis, have the right to return their property, because their property has been taken away from them in the directed political processes, but it is not the subject of this law. The property that comes back under this law that you propose, among other things, has been seized under the Law on Nationalisation of Rental Buildings and Building Land, I will, due to the time of only a few laws, on which this property has been seized to comment. Mr. Djelic, nationalisation is being conducted in civilized countries and conducted in civilized countries. You know, how many laborers have nationalized in England, and they've been in power for a long time. The second basis, one in fact, of the laws by which this property was taken away is the Expropriation Act until 1968. Come on, please explain to us why until 1968? Well, expropriations were done before and after. Today we have a very unfair and unfair law on expropriation, do you know, Mr. Djelic, that under today's law, in the current positive regulation, an investor can enter into possession before reaching a settlement on compensation. It wasn't before, or at some point in time, but it wasn't right before this law. Is any fee in the expropriation process in this period since 1968, I don't know what you've put in this year, until today's fair. Well, it's not, and does that mean it's illegal, so no, it doesn't. The law is so, applied and citizens must comply with the law. If it has to apply the Expropriation Act after 1968 and that property doesn't come back to anyone, then what are you returning the property that was expunged until 1968? What's the difference, Mr. Djelic? Do you know from this time in 1968 to this day how many thousands of hectares of land have been exploited, how many residential objects have been inhabited for the sake of established general interest, with compensation that former owners say is not fair, as was not fair about nationalisation since 1958, but because it is not just, we repeat again, does not mean that it is illegal. Is it just, Mr. Djelic, this Gilas expropriation for the Zemun Bridge - Borch? Did you know that Gilas is moving the citizens of Zemun from the Danube coast to the White Creek? Do you know that he's tearing down the houses they live in, and that in the White Creek, he's going to pay the market price for the rent. If they want to buy these houses, or apartments, they have to pay the market price for these apartments and they are not subject to the Housing Act, which provides for special conditions for the purchase of apartments. Is that fair? It's not. Is it in accordance with the Expropriation Act, yes, what to do, but, you know, you're all grumbling in front of things like that, and you're taking care of something that used to be. The law on agrarian reform is also the basis on which you will return the immovableities that have been taken away under the Agrarian Reform Act. Mr. Djelic, I don't know if you know that agrarian reform in Serbia has existed since 1919 from the time of King Alexander. At that time, the government adopted earlier provisions, which was called for the preparation of agrarian reform that became a programme of agrarian reform, which was implemented. Then why don't you return it, why have you plotted this agrarian reform and colonization since 1946? You don't have a principle, you don't know the answer, of course, to these questions. We remind you, too, Mr Djelic, that on 26 March 1991, the Law on the way and conditions of recognition of the right and return of land passed on to social property on the basis of the PZF, i.e. the Agricultural Land Fund and the confiscation due to the non-execution of the mandatory ransom. For the taken country, this one, which was returned under this law, had not previously been paid compensation and there was a basis for this law to be passed. Under that law, about 100,000 hectares of agricultural land have been returned, Mr. Djelic, please listen to me because I'm looking for an answer to all these questions. This law has been applied for 10 years and produced, regardless of what was the basis for being brought, the devastating economic consequences. What's that? Large agricultural combinations that had been very successful until then have been destroyed. The price of agricultural land has dropped dramatically, and since then huge quantities of agricultural land have remained in parlogous because they were returned to heirs who did not even know who their ancestors were. I personally worked on the application of this law in the Zemun Municipality, so they argued in front of me whether it was an aunt, whether it was an aunt, whether the aunt was there or not they should possibly inherit, so as long as they had to inherit, they thought they'd get a huge amount of money. When they saw that it wasn't so expensive because the large amount, I repeat 100 thousand acres of land was returned, then this land remained unprocessed. Mr. Djelic, this was also mentioned by counterpart Martinovic, did someone establish the origin of the property to the persons we stress, in a legitimate manner taken away from the property, which you now want to return? We ask you, Mr Djelic, were these the tycoons of that time, like Miskovic, Beko, Cane, Kostic, Djunic, Vlahovic, Djelic, etc. today? Mr. Djelic, I don't know what you're smiling about. I don't know if you've heard of old American proverbs no one can make a fair living and save a million dollars, and you, Djelic, in two years' time, 11 million euros. Mr. Djelic, the legal reason every lawyer has to respect, which is in favor and which is an argument why this law cannot be passed, is the right to maintain. You are not a lawyer, so let me explain to you first of all, we want the citizens of Serbia to hear. Regular maintenance for moving things is three years, for three years immovable, if land is book property, and 10 years for off-book. The emergency maintenance takes place over 10 years and the right to property is acquired on moving things, and in 20 years on immovable property. So it's been more than 20 years, and there's no legal condition for returning this property that you want to return. If someone 50, 60 years ago legally acquired property, they acquired the right to maintain long ago. You have all the way here to predict that this law will end the right to the service of passage. Do you even know what the law of passage means? Does that mean you'll leave the apartment buildings, houses, etc. without access to the street because the right of service of passage has been established? You have no idea, of course, only you know that you need to pass the law to return the property to Paris and some others and you don't care. Of course, we have to mention, that is, we mentioned, but to highlight the problem of restoring property to the folks. You know, Serbs in the AP Vojvodina territory have been very concerned for years. Do you know, Mr. Djelic, that tourist tours are being organized to come to the Germans to visit their ancestors' houses and properties, take pictures, etc. Because they knew that Angela Markel would give you next to pass this law and allow your folks to return property to them in Serbia? Yeah, you've intensified this since Angela Merkel was here hitting your pucks. We remind you that after the Second World War in Vojvodina, about 40,000 to 50,000 families were displaced, it means over 200,000 people from the poor parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Herzegovina, like, Banija, Korduna and now you are jeopardizing their status, Mr. Djelic, and this morning you say that the right of private property must be respected. Well, do you know what these people did to those Kraut houses, what they're popularly called? It's no longer mud houses, it's now fairies, it's now built, decorated gardens, orchards. There's an increased value of who knows how many times. You will return it to the folks, and you forget that before these Serbs came, about 200 thousand of them, that between 400 and 500 thousand Germans left Yugoslavia because their government was justified as people's enemies to take away property, citizenship and civil rights. You want to bring them to Serbia now, Mr. Djelic. You want them to possess properties that are Serbs, I said in what way they used. These days, I was also mentioned in the media what you are trying to hide, that an agreement was reached between Germany and the former Yugoslavia on the basis of which the folksdoers were depriving. The agreement was signed by Josip Borz and Willi Brant in 1972. Now, Mr. Ivanovic, who dealt with this, a historian, says – he was trying through various ministries, archives, etc. to come to this agreement and, imagine, it has magically disappeared from the archives in Serbia. It's a shame. Just to remind you that Mr. Vaslav Klaus, president of the Czech Republic, in 2009, did not want to support the Lisbon Agreement because it provides the possibility for the descendants of the German jurisprudence to seek the return of their property. So, everyone can say everything in the interest of their people, only you can't, I'm sorry, only you won't. The position of the SRS on this law has been shown through amendments by proposing that each member be deleted from title to last member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60708	The word has a folk MP, Mr Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60709	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit it's not easy for me to speak at this time. It's almost 6:00. From 10.00 a.m., we are having a serious debate about a very important law, about a law that is essential to most citizens of our Republic of Serbia, about a law that is one of the conditions, to use the same term that has already been extended so much, about obtaining conditions for EU membership, but I must admit that all I could hear, unfortunately, and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in direct television transmission, does not give me the right to be a society and as a state to show a high degree of responsibility and democracy. Simply, that criticism should be referred to us as part of the ruling coalition. Why do I say that? Because the majority of the charges of opposing opinions, the different views on the proposed text of the law could be heard by representatives of the ruling coalition and that is something that I think is not good and something that brings us even more into what I said at the very beginning, which is the deep division of society in all matters. So I'm not surprised that today, unfortunately, and most of all for the most part, we've heard dissonant, and God knows, often and so many opposing positions of members of the ruling coalition, that at one point I wondered, who suggested this law? So, this law is, to be clear to the end, necessary. This law needs those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in any way, neither guilty nor indemnity, because of why their ancestors are accused, or in the justice of God, have lost property, land and everything that falls under the law of return of property, or restitution. So anyone who is without a court and without a court order has been deprived of any right of his own, must have regained those rights. If not he, unfortunately, the largest number is no longer among the living, but his family members certainly do. So, there's no problem with me. We, as a state, as a society that we seek for modern European societies, must establish a rule of law over something called private property. Private property, as is often said, is sacred and indeed necessary. It is often said, and we have heard it today and from the Deputy Prime Minister, who defends this law in the name of the Government because she has proposed it, that this law removes historical injustice. You know, when you have a historical injustice, then you ask a question and what about historical justice? What about those who, in accordance with the laws of the Constitution of that time, were deprived of any right, convicted, whose property was seized, confiscated, etc.? I'm not a lawyer, so maybe my fellow MPs, who are much more skilled and skilled, because they're lawyers, they can also resent me, but I'm just saying what most citizens think. What about those who were working together from the beginning of World War II, in the ministry, to be open, the Third Reich? Are their rights, and everything that followed, taken away by some injustice, for some ideological reasons, and now we need to correct that so-called. A historical injustice? So, as an essential question, what is it and what does this law serve? I will talk about a very serious segment, something that this country and this society have done in the last decade, 12 years in continuity, with the support of the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is this once towards the EU, that is the way towards some European values. I ask you, first of all, the representatives of the Government, or Proposer Djelic, are these European values, I think, based on anti-fascism? Because, as far as I know, even though you're trying to avoid it, antifascism is based in the EU. Antifascism is on the UN stand. After all, Europe's Day is also called because it was the day of victory over fascism. If we want to change history today in 2011, or what's worse is to try to forge it, or in some way rape what the results of World War II are, where the EU is created, therefore, at all its values, all the respects of human rights in which we are so often sickened that we are sick of ourselves, let alone citizens. I'm going to try to paraphrase three principles from Mr. Djelic's opening statement this morning of 10.15 minutes, three principles focused on by the government when this law was passed. The first is the injustice that was done for ideological reasons. The second is that the financial stability of the state of the Republic of Serbia, or all of its citizens, cannot be compromised. The third is that a consultation with the former Yugoslav republics has been carried out in the making of this law. I must admit that all these three principles somehow seem to me lenient, regardless of the support I can give to the principle, that anyone who has wrongly lost property, for anyone who has lost land unfairly, for anyone who has been wrongly convicted of something he has not done, must in some way be rehabilitated and get some kind of satisfaction. I don't have a problem with that. If the first reason, as the Deputy Prime Minister stated, is this a law, an injustice that was done for ideological reasons, a public question – is fascism ideology? A long time ago, hundreds and hundreds of books said that. Of course it is. Not only is it, but it's the blackest ideology that ever existed in the human race, but let's just base ourselves on the 20th century. The followers of those who praised this ideology, who were killing on behalf of it, carried out everything that was radical, contrary to humanity and served Hitler and the Third Reich in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and I remind them, convicted of these crimes, cannot today be entitled or even returned to them, because this law wants to give them the right under the bill, because this property has been taken away for ideological reasons. What matters is, what about those who served the Third Reich in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? In order to return to the concrete members of the proposed law, I would like to raise a few questions, in my opinion, two key members who have found themselves here, as far as the misunderstanding and the misunderstanding are concerned, at least when it comes to me. Allow me to share these ambiguities and misunderstandings with my fellow Members, and more importantly, with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 5 of the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia says in point 3. – there is no right to return property and compensation: a person who was a member of the occupation forces that acted on the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II as well as their successors. It seems clear to me here, because I simply can't believe that someone in this country, especially not in the government, doesn't know who were the persons who were members of the occupation forces. It's as clear as day. Of the Germans, Bulgarians, Italians, Hungarians, and all who held certain parts of the Republic of Serbia according to what Hitler had arranged for them as a war mission is more than clear. It's so corny and boring for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I won't even repeat it. However, we have a problem with the government of the Republic of Serbia trying to correct something that cannot be corrected, I don't know why. My mother didn't curse me for gambling, but for taking it out. The government of the Republic of Serbia is now extracting with the amendment. Instead of a person who was a member of the occupation forces, the government of the Republic of Serbia, I quote: "Natural person, foreign citizen of the occupation forces". You know what, to be honest, I've got a few questions to ask here. First, I expect from Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, today or when the day comes for the amendment debate says, according to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what are the occupation forces? What's that? To name them, and that's one. Two, were there those who helped, or who were the Quislins of these same occupation forces in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? It is not a problem for me to distinguish between those who fought against fascism and occupiers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear as day. Obviously, we have a problem today, that some who have fought in the space of the Republic of Serbia since the start of World War II have been constantly in a position to represent the interests of the Third Reich and Adolf Hitler, today we need to rehabilitate. I can't accept that, because it is the falsification of history, it is also the demeaning of victims. In the end, it is the opposite of what Mr Djelic said in the opening presentation when he mentioned the Old Fair. Are those responsible for the Old Fair, which are Nedic's, members of Drago Jovanovic, who was the head of the special police, who, according to this amendment of yours, Mr Djelic, have every right, they and members of their family can collect everything they acquired during World War II in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to their work, co-operated with Mr Adolf Hitler? Another very important question, when it comes to confiscation, Mr Djelic is a gentleman who studied and lived in France, in Paris. It's common knowledge. He's been teaching history on French oatmeals. Peten and all members of the government that was identical to the government of Milan Nedic in Serbia, who served Adolf Hitler, had a situation that the French Republic confiscated their property, did not pay them back. We, God forbid to accept this amendment that you, Mr. Djelic, have proposed on behalf of the Government, will return the property to those who have been working with the Third Reich since the beginning of the war. Don't call on the Rehabilitation Act, when we know that the law was passed at a certain point and that the law, unfortunately, has the biggest problem where it belongs, which is the Constitutional Court. He's unconstitutional. The second problem concerning this proposal for a law on the same subject is contained in Article 42(6). Obviously, since you failed to implement the Rehabilitation Act in parallel with this law, you tried to introduce a small door to Article 42 of Article 6 which says – the person in Article 6(1) of this law is obliged to apply for a judicial decision on rehabilitation, or proof that he has filed a rehabilitation request. So, you're introducing something that's out of your mind, I'm not a lawyer. It's enough for someone to apply for rehab and you give him the right under this law to return the property of his ancestors. That's not normal. It's simply that the speed that you've been running to break one of these laws because of something that I don't understand is in the background, but I deeply believe that the largest number of MPs in this assembly, which I have heard today, not only from the ruling coalition which, by the logic of things, is there to support the government of the Republic of Serbia and its every law, but today, unfortunately, from the representatives of the opposition, we have heard the support of some of the provisions with which I, I must admit, fully agree. Therefore, we have a serious problem with the amendment that you have proposed that we try to correct something that cannot be corrected. I ask you that while that time, the amendment that you have submitted to the hill of amendments on your own motion, you withdraw. Because, otherwise, I doubt it can pass, I doubt it can be adopted in this home, and then I doubt that we can fulfill what we all stand for, and then, again, I don't want to believe that one of those who are fighting for the rights of those who have lost their lives by fighting those who occupied this country and those who cooperated with them from 1941 to 1945 will lose, allegedly, a map for the EU. If we are to enter the EU by giving rights to the heirs of Nedic, Ljotic and all those who have worked with Hitler and served him, and getting rich at the expense of an ordinary man, at the expense of peasants who are neither guilty nor obliged to be mobilized by their houses, courtyards and villages, then I fear that this is a path in which we should not go. I believe deeply and know that the EU does not ask us to do so. And don't convince me that the EU is asking us to support the representatives of the Quinslin government in the Republic of Serbia and their successors, because it didn't give it to those quinslins on its territory either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60710	It's been used 17 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Time available for eight minutes. After her, the word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga, instead of colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60711	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Serbia has waited a long time for the restitution law, but I must admit that the expectations of those whose rights are regulated by this bill have been significantly higher. Respecting what you said at the outset, I must say that this law, unfortunately, will not correct a historic injustice that was done by taking away property, not only after World War II, but also during World War II itself. This bill comes from the point of view – yes, it has been taken away a lot, but it will return a little. Although almost all political parties have been pushing for the return of property since 2000, and they have put it as their priority, the DSS is the only one, and I insist on that, because I see that today has been a dispute over all this, has taken the first step and started to solve this problem. In 2006, the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, which envisioned three models: firstly, natural restitution, natural substitution, what is very important and what we insist on and, of course, instead of compensation mentioned in this law, the market cash compensation to the old owners. Later, the bill was passed in the congregation itself. The current government is starting to deal with the issue of restitution due to EU pressure and solely for the purpose of obtaining candidate status. This should be noted and it should be clear how there is no will here for it to be accepted in the form in which it will be just. At the very least, how much does this government care about making this bill live, that it succeeds, best shows that this government first tried to examine the constitutionality of the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities to completely avoid not only a natural restitution in which, thank God, it failed, but also a natural substitution, because it meant that natural substitution must be introduced into this bill, if it already exists in the law that is being applied, however, it was applied, to be more accurate in my presentation. This bill that we're discussing today offers a mole restitution, without any model of natural substitution, and that's exactly his biggest flaw. Why did you not predict that if it is not possible for the property to be returned in natural form, that this property would be compensated, or replaced by any other asset of the same or similar value? In particular, we have no understanding when we know that Serbia's state property is one million and 1.3 million hectares of forest land, and that the total claims of the citizens of churches and religious communities on forest land are not more than 50,000 hectares, especially if we know that citizens' claims on agricultural land are half of what belongs to Serbia in state property, especially if we know that citizens' claims on construction land are reduced to only a few percent. The former owners have reason to be concerned about what you said, and you said that the restitution would be modest. I must tell you, Mr. Djelic, that restitution must not be modest. Either you go in or you don't go in, it has to be real, not modest. First of all, will the former owners in any way be justly compensated? Of course not. Serbia will face countless lawsuits here to be brought to court in Strasbourg, and then we will only later see how much the price of restitution in the country increases with each lost dispute. Is the two billion-euro fund, how much did you predict enough? Well, of course not. But let's look on the other side, what's going on. Is it really the two-billion-euro fund you've foreseen for the cash compensation of the old owners, at all any blow to the budget, or is it a meaningless blow? I will tell you that Serbia will spend 133m euros annually, all times 15 years, and if you want to express it in percentages, it will be 1.5% of Serbia's annual budget. If we know that the deficit today is 4.5%, then we can see and predict at all what the deficit in 2015 will be when the bonds are being issued for these purposes. Secondly, what about the total public debt? We already know that as a state and how fast we are approaching that limit of deep and fat-indebted states, and I can only assume what will happen in 2015 when it is increased by two billion euros. I am sincerely concerned about how much he will be in 2015, but I believe and quite clearly express that you are not very interested in this, because you will not be in a position to be in power then, and therefore you will not be obliged to implement this law. That's what's important. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking about what I think and not just me, but everyone who truly understands the essence of the problem of restitution, or the taking away of property, that there is no better way than the way of natural substitution, if the goal is, of course, a fair and real restitution, not a mole and a transparent restitution. Of course, I'm afraid that this bill, and I have every right to conclude on the basis of all the discussions that have been conducted here today, makes another robbery of my own citizens, because the property, or the old owners, will be minimally secured, and their kidnapped, robbed property will be resold at the market value of someone else. Based on what I've brought out today and what my colleagues have brought forward, it's quite clear that the Democratic Party of Serbia will never support this concept of restitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60712	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. After that, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60713	Thanked Vice-President, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow MPs, as more than a decade has been stressed today, the government in Serbia has refused to resolve the issue of restitution, as this is obviously a very painful issue, not only for generations that may be waiting for their assets to be returned, but also for those who will have to repay the debt in the future. The European Union, simply before us, perhaps she, has set up this law and the resolution of that restitution, not for reasons to distance us from the communist regime in which we have lived for 50 years, but to establish the truth about innocent victims and to clear up the ownership situation in our country. If anyone from the European Union wants to invest in Serbia, the matter of property over land and facilities should be resolved. The argument that Serbia is in a difficult situation, which we have heard many words today, that it is economically ruined cannot be used against restitution. Non-restitution is the reason that over 150,000 families have been left without property for decades and without their work results. Until the kidnapped property is returned, Serbia cannot restore the legal, property and economic system and return to a healthy market base. The stumbling block and the substitution issue, which is not provided for in this proposal for a return law, has been presented as some negativity and representatives of the Association of Old Owners, which are unique in the claims of state property, has more than the total amount of the claim, but that all state assets are not listed. Only 139 thousand hectares of agricultural land are listed in the Property Directorate, and the state collects rent revenue at different levels at 420,000 hectares, which is the data provided by the Agriculture Ministry. The proposed law does not provide for substitution and the former owner cannot be returned to assets in natural form. Where it can't be done, that person will be provided with cash. We know that citizens are concerned that bonds are not good and they don't believe in bonds because sometimes nominal value has nothing to do with real when it comes to billing. If, in the words of the creators of the proposal, the natural restitution is corrupt, which is expressed in many claims and public discussions, and also that the substitution is rejected, because it creates the possibility of corruption, citizens are afraid that the bonds will eventually be unsuspected and that some future government will come to pay off those bonds at some other price that is not foreseen at the outset. The bill rejected the substitution of the seized property, and the only options offered are natural restitution and monetary compensation. I wonder if this will mean that, for example, the property will be naturally acquired only by those who are somehow fortunate, and those who cannot prove or whose property is being placed somewhere, sold, you will get bonds for 15 years. Citizens' return associations pointed out that the state has more assets than it needs to be returned to do fair denationalisation. I've heard a lot of stories today about some pre-war tycoons. I may speak from my own experience, my grandfather was in some way the Duke's towers, participated in the war, my great-grandfather was murdered by a son who was 18 years old, he was in Partisans, but after the war, all his property was taken from him. In today's stories, we've heard a lot of accusations about these citizens who have been taken away from property in some way, but I don't think that law corrects that mistake, and I'm asking the government to reconsider the amendments we've submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60714	Four minutes and 55 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60715	Mr. Djelic, I expected the finance minister to defend this, since I think it's his matter, he could personally explain some details. Well, let's get in line. First and foremost, this law has no constitutional basis. The fact that you have called upon the relevant member of the Constitution, with point 7) "Adjustment and provision of property and bonding relations and protection of all forms of property", excuse me, please, this law does not touch that matter. This is neither the law on the basis of property legal relations, this is nor the law on bond relations, this is neither the procedural law which protects owners, or which enables them to protect their right of property. That's the first thing. The second thing, the topic is important, because it has its own historical dimension and opens moral, legal, political and economic issues. The third detail, which I think is very important, is that, according to this analysis of the effects of the law and a statement of compliance with EU regulations, there is no obligation for the Republic of Serbia to pass such a law. So there is no constitutional basis, there is no European practice, because you are seeking it, there is nothing that would force us or there is no reason that would be justified to pass such a law and regulate these issues. Then the question arises - why is it done? It is done for the simple reason that Serbia should commit suicide as a state. There are only some indications of the effects of this law: 200 billion, first some estimates, dinars, then 100,000 demands and hiring new people who would work on those demands. No valid reason for Serbia to approach this adventure at the moment. Since we've had opportunities these years to listen to everything and everything about the notion of denationalization, restitutions etc., etc., a small number of thunderous representatives of this idea, but exhibitionists in their nature, as well as those exhibitionists walking around, are so aggressive and have lost their orientation of what they use as an argument for their endeavor. So they called for a pact on civil rights that does not regulate this provision, this matter, and then they called for the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, so they called for this Strasbourg with which you are very often interested in some of these MPs who purposely entered the National Assembly for restitution, such as Žika Gojkovic, Nikola Novakovic, and we also had Minister Parivodic, who is not interested in the DSS, he should finish the job of impoverishing the Republic of Serbia in all the stitches. And now there's a lot of talk about these international standards, there are no international standards here, but there's something we should be called on, especially since 2003. Serbia-Montenegro, and later Serbia became members of the Council of Europe in 2003, and that date is significant for you and for the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, and this membership obliges us to respect the Protocol first with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and there is one member who reads, Mr Djelic, "Every natural and legal person has the right to the uninterrupted enjoyment of his property, no one should be deprived of his property except in the public interest and under the conditions laid down by law and general principles of international law. "Who determines the public interest? The competent state authorities, which means "under the conditions laid down by law", strengthens the principle of rule of law, and an integral part of that principle is legal certainty. We've been bound by this since 2003, to remind you immediately. Furthermore, ex ante provisions, however, do not in any way affect the right of the State to apply the laws it deems necessary to regulate the use of property in accordance with the general interests or to ensure the collection of taxes on other taxes and fines. Therefore, the Protocol first, Article 1 of that Protocol does not impose a obligation on the Republic of Serbia to deal with these issues. Why does someone make us deal with these questions? Well, because the EU's concept of destroying the Republic of Serbia, the NATO Pact concept to destroy the Republic of Serbia, and this has its timing of how Kosovo and Metohija skates are opening up other locations, and this concerns the superior territory of the AP Vojvodina and the fact that a large number of heirs, former members of the "Prince Eugen" division, are preparing documentation because Germany needs a new living space, if you don't believe me, look at the History Channel, and see which of the German statesmen dresses in the same uniforms as Adolf Hitler. Let's see what the European Court of Human Rights says, Article 1. Protocol one - cannot be interpreted as imposing any general obligation on the States to return the property transferred to them before they ratified the Convention. Excuse me, then what are we talking about? If something is finished in 1945, 1946 until, as you say, 1960 and some year, and Serbia became a member of the Council of Europe in 2003, we have no obligation, neither under the Constitution nor by the Statute of the Council of Europe. Do we have any other regulations? We don't. Are we members of the EU? We didn't. Have all EU members fulfilled this alleged obligation? No, they're not. Poland did not meet and will not meet, Czechoslovakia started in 1990 and 1991, and Mr Djelic in Czechoslovakia then and later in Czech Republic and Slovakia was a statesman, so when they passed this regulation to correct the corresponding historical injustices, they also hit two anchors. First anchor, citizenship. Second anchor, residence. And wrote in an explanation, it doesn't occur to us to bring back the Germans who committed evil in Czechoslovakia, and what do you do? You're doing the opposite, you're doing the opposite. Let's see what that European Court of Human Rights says. I'm telling you, no law can be passed, and anyone who thinks they're threatened can play in the fingers of the European Court of Human Rights. Here are the views of the European Court of Human Rights, Mrs Comić – depriving property or other rights in principle is a momentary act and does not produce a permanent state of deprivement of rights. How is this applied to the EU? Here's proof, at a number of meetings where I represented the Republic of Serbia, the opposition part of the National Assembly of Talkers from abroad I was talking about the right of property as sacred. Everyone applauded, and when I asked them why this right is not recognised to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, why it is not recognised to Serbs from Republika Srpska, the sessions were interrupted. And these great Europeans have forgotten the rules that apply to them, so Serbs have other rules that the EU is applying to you. Let's move on, Article 1. Protocol number one, the right to acquire property is not guaranteed, and it's true what we're talking about. The third position, it is said -- that some protection can be provided to the extent that decisions relating to the property of the applicant are challenged. And here comes a kind of legal dialectic, existing assets, assets, claims, and what they call a "legitistic expectation". Is there a legitimate expectation in this country? It doesn't exist. When will it exist? If you pass this law, then it will not succeed before the European Court of Human Rights and I guarantee it. Furthermore, the hope of recognising property rights that have not been applied so far in practice cannot be considered property. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, know from this law will be the same as that of Mladjan, about the 1000-euro free action, so a few months ago we had a situation that Mr Dinkic admitted that there was nothing at the start of it, but wanted his dear candidate for President of the Republic to win and to double-cross the citizens. Who's gonna have any idea if you pass a law like this? Folksdoers and criminals, that's two categories. Why criminals? How can you talk about injustice when you have not yet solved the question of who set the National Assembly on fire? Where did you get the legitimacy to suggest solving injustice 50 years ago? Well, what is Miroslav Miskovic today, what is Milan Beko, in which they differ from pre-war employees, military liverants, those who earned on beans? Who's going to tax Bozidar Djelic? He came here, there was no dog to bite, after two years of opposition 11.5m euros. Who will correct this injustice? Seven million people don't know how to work, don't know how to make money, work, so nobody made $11.5 million. How can someone do that overnight? You're talking about historical injustice. How many injustices do you produce? God forbid this law is passed, 10 years of taxpayers in Serbia have a cramp. For who? Because of a small number of people who are going to finish the job. Along the way, to inform you, Mr Djelic, in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, there have been many regulations that allowed denationalisation. How did only some manage to denationalize? The Domazette family in Nis recovered everything and did not need this law. Why? Because Vladimir was in power, an executive, so he knew when the municipality assigned someone an apartment to return that property to the former owner. The lawyers think they're gonna get around this law. There's nothing going to happen here, 10 DS lawyers are going to be involved in this business. Why are you destroying Serbia and by this law you provide material for everyone to call us before Strasbourg and elsewhere. How are you going to enforce this law on KIM territory? You don't care. You have one provision, how are you going to interpret that provision? As a provision of the VAT law on goods transport with the territory of AP KiM, and then when you need, you say, there is bribery and corruption, the goods do not go, but wash the documentation and return without VAT to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Who could have made that happen? Customs, national security, government, and now that government calls some people out there who guard their lives at barricades. It's DS, it's your laws. I'm not even going to talk about moral, political and other issues right now, I'm going to say that in the discussion of details. Please, the European Court of Human Rights respects the economic interests of every country and says that the state, in principle of proportionality, is not obliged to meet certain things if it can build such a burden for citizens that they cannot live. You want to burden yourself here, 140,000 people need to lose their jobs in a month and now you're talking fairy tales, you're calling for history, some hollow stories. Furthermore, the protocol says, it did not impose any restrictions on the freedom of the state (not understood) to determine the extent of restitution. If the state does not question its existence, and if it wants to regulate the area on certain principles, correcting some historical injustices, restitution can be foreseen and then there is room for the application of the protocol, Article 1. Protocol one to the European Court of Human Rights. The extent of security determines the state by its law, how did you do it? On your own, you've allowed everyone and a stranger and anyone who doesn't have a place here. Why? We had a conversation a few days ago about this controversial member without being a member of the occupation force, so we asked the little one what was up to Mr. Djelic. How do you figure it out? He says we don't know. Based on what, confirmation? Who's to confirm that someone wasn't part of the occupation force? We don't know. That is why this article has been amended with this amendment. After all, what is your law if you have submitted an amendment to each other, you who have proposed it? There are 250 amendments to this law here, and there is no MP who has not written an amendment to this law. With what right, what do you want to do? You want to mutilate Serbia, because it is a condition, the sakes of Serbia can hope to sign for candidacy. We'll never be members of the EU, they're asking you to finish your dirty work and this is one of the dirtier jobs and it's a very difficult dirty job. When I asked the question about the citizenship residence, the one who just sat next to Djelic, he says, there is a case law. What kind of court practice is there? He says the Constitutional Court of Croatia has decided. We have people who are calling for decisions of the Constitutional Court of Croatia that sit in the government, shame and shame for this Serbia. A strong Constitutional Court, and what about those hundreds of thousands of people whose property hasn't been returned? They go to the EU, and the EU doesn't care that Serbs are expelled from Republika Srpska territory. For Serbs the principle applies – private property, sacredness. Even apartments can't be returned. If they show up, there's a charge going on right now. Here is your dear Josipovic, announcing to you what he should do and under these conditions you are passing such a law. This should be your election card for the next election, this should be your EU card. No one in Serbia wants to go to the EU with a law like this, especially when we're being kidnapped by KIM. The story with 17 states, the former Yugoslavia concluded contracts, is thought of these occupational forces that lost World War II and regulated status and property issues. However, there are now three states, unable to interpret the agreement. This deal between Brant and Tito that doesn't exist, or the historians didn't find it, these experts found it, God and his. He says, we have one problem, we can't figure out if Brant and Tito have agreed or if this question remains open. Since it remained open, then it appears from another political party in Vojvodina, and says not all members of the Prince of Eugeny have been going voluntarily, some have had to go under the sea. What are you guys talking about? What do you hate about Serbia, running a dead race with the EU, who will do more damage to the Serbian people and we will give you support? Not even for a living head. Who will give you support and try to dissuade those unfaithful people who think something can happen, those people who are known to have injustice against their ancestors and you put them first in order to cover this backdrop of the dirty work they're doing. They recognized these people, they recognized this as a 1,000-euro free share story. You think, in the conditions of poverty and poverty, that everyone will believe and that all 100,000 of those who filed, and those applications have not even been checked, and there are five who claim the same property. There will be time to talk about some more legal principles, rules of law, obsolescence, legal certainty, rule of law, principle of law, but you don't respect it. It doesn't limit you, it doesn't guide you. It guides you whether in October, perhaps in November, if it is not in November, then in December, as Zeljko Samardzic said someone would sign there. What are we gonna get from that signature? It's going to light up for us all just like it came to light from the white shengen. It's going to light up like that resolution in the General Assembly you wrote together with the EU, so Eulex came. We will benefit from the fact that the one before you gave the building permit to build the Eulex premises in northern, Kosovo Mitrovica. The citizens of Serbia, I suppose, are clear to you, all that is proposed is against the people, against the state. If we had sincere intentions, Miroslav Miskovic would not be on the loose for three minutes, Milan Beko, not five minutes on the loose, Lutra, not a day on the loose, not to mention your Vlahovic. Djelic, Djelic would already count a month of detention. But no, you have divided Serbia into 2% of the extremely wealthy who have the rights and opportunities to protect all their interests. What are we going to do if, by chance, a change of government happens, and these things that you've done, so they say, we correct the historical injustice against Bogoljub Karic, then the law. To correct the historical injustice against Darko Saric, so that 126 can be secured. Is it possible that anyone can buy 126 or 127 MPs and finish the job? That's your principle. Here, the EU and NATO pact has provided a majority of 127 or 130, there are reserves and the interests of those who take away KIM, those who put barricades in the middle of our street, and they say that's crossing 31, and then cross one. What about crossing number two to 30? In the middle of our street in our alley came your friends and set up barbed wires, and you don't care. Your parents moved theirs, quits, and Thaci pays. But we'll talk about it another time. Those who are calling on the European Court of Human Rights are making a big mistake. It can't go past there, but they're counting on this majority to vote all of it. This law on the return of property has not been passed by any state behind the Iron Curtain or by the former Socialist. Someone just said, "Liberal law." It's not liberal, it's separatistally destructive law for the state of the Republic of Serbia. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60716	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Lučić, followed by MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60717	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow MPs, I estimate that putting on the agenda of the National Assembly of Laws on the return of the seized property and the compensation after ten years of discussions held both in the general public and in the professional public, after so many versions of the legal solutions that almost all governments have tried to make here since 2000, that today, no matter what some MPs say about it, we are attending an almost historic event, but some other judges, may judge the time, because today we are finally discussing, I expect that in the coming days and we adopt, a general law on restitution. There are many reasons why Serbia needs a general law on restitution. I want to remind some MPs, but also the general public, we have already had partial forms of restitution in Serbia. So, we had a 1991 agricultural restitution, a 1992 cooperative, a restitution of property to churches and religious communities. The very names of these legal projects are best said, were partial, inconsistencies and since they were only related to one cycle of damaged, certainly unfair. This is the first and basic reason why we must have a general law on restitution because the return of property and compensation must apply to all Serbian citizens who are damaged. Therefore, this proposal for a law on the return of property and compensation, which we are discussing, for the subject of return, has all the property that was seized after World War II, including real estate, agricultural and construction land, businesses and movables. The fact that this government has managed to formulate the bill and refer it to parliament for adoption means that we have managed to reach a relatively balanced, fair and sustainable legal solution. By pointing out this fact, I would also like to say that I highly appreciate everyone else's attempts since 2000 to make a general law on restitution. Unfortunately, that's not what they did. We know that, it really wasn't an easy job, and that's why all the congratulations to the government today have the opportunity to discuss one of these laws. Namely, as in today's debate, and as we all know it well, we cannot ignore the fact that a good part of the citizens thinks that one law cannot correct history, something that happened 70 years ago. On the other hand, we also have one polarised opinion, and these are the views of damaged citizens who feel that they must be returned to them all taken away, regardless of whether it would mean incurring other legally acquired property rights. Therefore, between these two completely opposing attitudes should have been made a legal proposal that settles these two opposing attitudes, which is sustainable and just. When I say that the damaged owners expected all property to be returned to them, regardless of whether it means hitting on other legally acquired property rights, it is also a sort of response to some presentations here that I really cannot understand but as an attempt to intimidate and harass citizens that now in their house or in their property someone else will come. He won't. This law, the solutions it offers, is just avoiding that possibility. So the government had to take care of all these deeply opposed views and propose solutions to correcting an injustice, here this almost phrase has been heard several times, but that's also true. So correcting an injustice would not lead to new injustices. If we add to this ideological opposition, today in the debate it was obvious, that there is also a very present in parliament, certainly and in the public, then it is clear to all how important it is to achieve a consensus truly in this Parliament on the proposed law, but since there has been manipulation of distortions and an attempt to intimidate citizens, I want to repeat it once again. By coming to a consensus for MEPs from the list of ZES, especially for us, MPs of the DS, will neither mean any relativisation of our anti-fascist tradition or the relativisation of the Holocaust. I ask you to make it quite clear that there are no more pathetic speeches here, that someone should be burdened as if this bill intends to do such a thing. So, if we are guided by this principle of not allowing new injustices, to propose financially sustainable solutions and here to say that there were concerned MPs here that the fact that it will simply not be able to make natural restitution at full volume, but there will be monetary compensation and bonds, that these facts draw the conclusion that it is a risk for Serbia to increase its deficit. It is not correct simply because it is known to anyone who wants to know that just in the years when the law predicts starting with cash compensation and bonds, our budget relaxes one great obligation such as the return of old foreign currency savings. So, because of this law, we don't increase the budget deficit. We are very aware of that, by applying this law, that we do not have the right to adopt a law that would economically destabilise a state or law that would add to the financial burden of generations to come. Also, this law wanted us to, in addition to fair, realistically sustainable compensation for citizens who were damaged to show that by this law we are actually building a social and legal order in which rights are protected, including property rights. After the adoption, which is before us, the law on public property, the law on restitution and the property code on other real rights in Serbia will finally be clear what it belongs to. I am convinced that it is in the interest of all citizens and that it was finally time to know the title of every property in Serbia. That is why the government has rightly put the adoption of this law into the action plan of European integration, not at the EU's request but, as it has been said and repeated here, as its own obligation to legally round the entire area of property relations. Speaking of the EU, it may be necessary to repeat once again that there is no European model for restitution, that the EU has no requirement for us to see how this law should look, that the EU expects what we also point out that we want this law not to happen, that it is just, that it does not cause new injustices and that it is economically sustainable. So, there should be no disturbance in the economic stability of society. As has already been said, the law gives priority to the return of assets in the nature of this law, except by the law of the exceptions provided for. Compensation for assets that cannot be recovered will be carried out through money and government bonds. I repeat this attitude that has been heard so many times in the debate today, because there has been a great debate about the substitution and here today there has been a discussion that has been a major regret in this law that states that there is no substitution or return of other property where it is not possible to return it to the one to which it has been taken away. There's a lot of reasons why we don't have that substitution institute in law. I'm not going to name them here, but I'm going to make sure that the countries in the environment that in their legal solutions predicted the substitution have very bad experiences. But not to go into the environment, to just remind ourselves that, in this existing law on the return of property, churches and religious communities from 2006, we have the possibility of replacing property, which means substitution, but in real life it didn't happen or it's completely negligible. So that institute just doesn't work. In the debate on the details of this law, we will continue to talk about concrete legal solutions and through amendments to the necessary provisions of the bill. On this occasion, I just want to point out that I think it's a good solution when it comes to the technical matter of this great process that is beneath us, which the restitution carries, this big deal, because it's a business worth several billion euros and it's about to be over 100,000 citizens who will be restitution users, it's about to form a Restitution Agency, certainly a very good solution. Also, I think that very good and important solutions that want to make the restitution process effective. I mean the deadlines proposed by law, with the aim of completing most of the technical work by 2014. Finally, I would like to point out once again the importance of passing this law, because I will remind you, in terms of the global economic crisis, in our economy's difficulties, it seems to be the last moment for restitution. If we really want to face this legacy of the past as a society, then maybe this is the last moment. The proposed solutions are, as I have already said, financially sustainable. I am sure that, apart from correcting these historical injustices, the consolidation of a legal system in which the right of property is clearly protected, this law will produce a number of other very positive effects. I will only list an increase in the number of taxpayers, because priority returns will be in nature, strengthening our country's entrepreneurial potential and creating a more attractive mile for new investments, because investors will be safer with what they buy, that is, how someone here says funny – will no longer come into a situation to buy their own cat in a bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60718	Thirteen minutes used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic, and he is the last registered speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60719	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, if we had been present in certain parts of today's discussion, or had I, by any chance, first entered the House of the National Assembly, not clear to me, it was all about the law, and that's why I'm saying this, I'm not going to be too long, but it wouldn't be clear to me who's an integral part of the ruling coalition? Because you yourself have been from the representatives of all political options, whether they come from opposition or position, heard and convinced of a very large number of objections to the law on the return of seized property and compensation. Unofficially, I may not be good with the data, over 250 amendments have been submitted, if I am not mistaken, to this law, it proves that this bill is excitable, contrary to the good legal practice of the Republic of Serbia itself, is not complete. The SNS stance, once again, is that this law should be passed, that Serbia needs a restitution law. We do not view 150,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia as voters, we look at people who, in a long time ago, have created property, and it has been very difficult. Only in the 1990s, so here last century was easy to create property in Serbia. In Serbia, generations that created property in that period, and a number of generations ahead of them created property, so that very few people who at that historic moment were able to deal with certain criminal acts, including their own and the Republic of Serbia. Personally, I think this number of people in Serbia is much higher and this is unofficial statistics. After the publication of deadlines for the submission of heirs or those who have obtained the right to return the seized property, know this number. Mr. Djelic, you've been an important official and statesman in the last 11 years. At one point, seven, eight years ago, in an interview that you gave, it was handled with a minimum of 12.5 billion euros that Serbia should return to the aforementioned person category. Where'd that go? Is this two-billion-dollar figure that this law provides, to the figure that returns in natural form, that number that is 12.5 billion euros, or is it still off the record and that after the adoption of this law and the publication of the deadline, we are going to get into a situation to see both the real number of heirs and the real number that stands before the state, or the Republic of Serbia? What else is he worried about? They're worried about the current chairman's words that we'll continue with the next law. I support that, too, because it's very important. Mr. Djelic, without the adoption of the Rehabilitation Act, there is no law on restitution and vice versa. If this parliamentary majority was prepared to withdraw the rehabilitation law the other day, and if we heard such comments during today's debate, I am really wondering about the fate of this law, or did it seem like a paid political term at the moment on the second RTS programme, because elections are close? But, guys, get serious and settle around the law. Let's not, and neither should you, in front of the government, succumb to the blackmail of any political party. We are submitting amendments to try to correct the text of the law for the sake of Serbian citizens. Nothing political, nothing against you, nothing against the ruling coalition. In this context, I will continue the remarks that the SNS has, as well as the amendments that we have submitted to the existing bill. It's impossible that after three and a half years of joint government, so-called Chetniks and partisans can't go together right now. This is what we heard in the debate today and we were more concerned with these things than with a law that interests at least 150 thousand citizens, and probably more, the Republic of Serbia. When I said the law was high, I really don't know who your ministry's associates are, your team, but I'll try by certain members, I really don't know what professions are, and I apologize for that, to prove it. The bill is based on the government's draft, the Committee on Business and Finance. What I had in front of me about the draft and this bill, and probably about the text that will come out of the Parliament procedure after adoption, in the spirit of yesterday's story, or the debate on public property law, was really better every day and I hope it will be better. I therefore appeal to your consciousness and to the awareness of the entire ruling coalition, to pay attention here only to the interests of the citizens, or to the category of persons affected by this law, or should be held to this law. I don't think your sector has much experience with the legal procedure with legal normation and the system of the law, because let's just say in Article 1 you use a term – taken-off enterprises, which really exist on the legal language, and neither is the legal concept of property rights of the company accepted. It is one of the arguments that it is my own opinion and the opinion of the party that the Ministry of Justice should have taken part and drawn up a draft draft of this law and certain provisions in particular. Because of all this and the lack of that legal logic, the law contains a series of shortcomings and indeterminateness. It is almost noticeable because, indeed, if the law is read from member to member, it is noticeable what the period to which this law applies, but what is very important in Article 1 should be pointed out, not only to mention the period after 9 March 1945, in the late terms it is mentioned and the period until 1968 and part of the period during the occupation period from 1941 to 1945, but we believe that this time period had to be in Article 1 although it was later mentioned and touched by the subsequent provisions of this law. In Article 2, you then state, the rules of tax rules which have been seized and although indeed many can neither be applied because of the non-disclosure of the specific situations listed in the 41 laws of the FNRJ or the states resulting from it, so that the non-disclosure of the specific situations which have been applied can be realised in the specific situation under the request for return of assets in terms of a positive legal order. Especially one important thing, Mr. Minister, in 1945, especially in 1945, we now have a problem with the literacy of a large number of Serbian citizens. The question is, are all the solutions given? The question is, did people get all the answers, and the question is, do their heirs know where the solutions are? That's why my esteemed colleague Tabakovic said that this problem should be a little bit more addressed by state authorities than by citizens who should be interested in this matter. That's why I'm saying that in Serbia, literally because of this unknown and doesn't know the exact number of citizens whose ancestors have taken away property, which can now be compensated in this process. Is the administrative procedure at all suitable for decision-making in procedures or was it necessary to pass a special procedural regulation or several regulations that would cover this issue? Behind all of this is another question – are they employees of the administration that needs to solve this area professionally? We don't even know who's gonna be busy. We even see that the agency, and we're going to have stories about this in particular, which will start from January 1st next year. Why January 1st next year? Because part of the personnel will be reunited with the agency. It's their professional ability to deal with problems like this. We believe that part of this issue should be solved in court proceedings, and that the agency and staff who are employed in it will not, without regard to who does this, have professional powers and abilities for this process. And here, Mr. Minister, it is not only about correcting one historical injustice, but also about the large amount of money that needs to be returned from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we think the agency doesn't have the capacity, even under the Agency's Law, it shouldn't be dealing with these affairs. If you look at the Agency Act, you really won't find a place to form a restitution agency, but should be a management within the competent ministry. The question arises – how much is the draft law on the return of the seized property and the compensation in accordance with the Constitution and the positive regulations, especially in the matter of the speciality and generality of the law? Those rules, generally called expropriation of expropriators, have been brought by the FNRJ and its co-excessors at the federal level, and the return of property should only be carried out by the Republic of Serbia. We know that we even have unresolved property relations in these relations, and especially citizens who, at some point, have lived on a certain part of FNRJ territory or are now living in one of these republics. What is more important about the most important amendments I want besides the amendments that Tabakovic made? In Article 10. The proposal for a law on the return of property and the compensation is to say that its acquired rights must not be violated. We believe that if someone has acquired the right to property, that right is protected by the Constitution and does not need to be particularly highlighted. We believe that in this mentioned article 10, this is not why you should state this attitude. It was also in today's discussion, given the number of elected MPs who took part, and the stories about all of this and what I'm about to say, but limiting the return of moving things only to things that are listed in the register or cultural goods at the very least is not correct, because you know, and everyone else knows that other things have been taken away that are very large and lasting values, so given the situation and that knowledge should also allow for the return of such things. We all know that many families have been taken away from art paintings of valuable values, pianos, weapons and other things that have been their family heritage, etc. What's the issue, and today it's very prominent? It is a controversial member of the 18th and the right to property and the uninterrupted enjoyment of property, which is as one of the basic human rights, so the return of property for this reason must not depend on the coincidence, such as the circumstances set out in the draft law of the disputed Article 18 in points 2), 3), 5), 6) and 7), i.e. whether someone in the building or in the apartment has placed some of the numerous authorities, agencies, institutions, foreign representations and so on or are, for example, owned by companies that use them, which have been created in the privatisation process. We therefore suggested that in the numbered and all cases, compensation must be paid in cash within a reasonable period of three to five years. This also refers to diplomatic representations and foreign companies' representations. There are solutions to that. When it comes to point 8), we find it extremely incorrect and unfair to deny someone the right to return to his house, because you will have to admit, if someone has managed to build his house so well and beautifully that it is declared a cultural good, and on the other hand there are no legal obstacles to being culturally well in private property. At the same time, this can lead to various abuses. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment to the mentioned Article 18(2), (3), (5), (6) and (7). It is also unprescribed, i.e. the complicated and procedure of the procedure and everything else, today it was said, in the process of trying, to say, the return of the seized property and the compensation, because in part and in many cases, given the fact of the real value of the taken property and everything else, the companies, this will only come to light on the attempt. Because of all that we're still here to do these few days and change what we can do now shouldn't be left behind for later. So I appeal to all of us that what we've been saying for years is that we're going to try to do it at the very least to make it right for people who are interested in the proposal of this law. When it comes to the Agency, I point out once again and I appeal to you, indeed, that these jobs and the jurisdiction of return of the seized property can be difficult to trust the public agency, because under the Law on Public Agencys, they can carry out professional and developmental tasks, in which there is no need for permanent and direct political supervision. This is not about a business that falls within the affairs of the state administration in a narrow sense and a serious state obligation of value, but an obligation of state value and more than a few billion euros. I therefore appeal that the necessary and mandatory control of both the Government and us and this House and the National Assembly in this process, on these means, of this amount of funds and this number of cases. We therefore believe that this process can only be accompanied by the Administration, or the Authority of State Administration, and not by the Agency. The procedure for the return of seized property and compensation has, as I said for a moment, indeed quite indifference in itself, the most significant one in the proposal, where it says that the competent municipal authority of the administration, responsible for property-legal relations, decides instead of the party, or some other body, which is part of and breach of basic human rights and the problem of return of property and compensation, under the proposed law, could indeed be talked about a lot more, but in both tomorrow and the day when amendments are discussed, we will try to prove in our own way the reality of what we have tried to do with amendments and that this law, to the satisfaction of all of us, we will try to fix, to make better for all those, especially for the categories of persons who are interested in this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60720	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60721	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, who still have the patience to watch this direct transmission and debate on the law on restitution, which, I think, is turning to its own senselessness, if we would appreciate the discussions of some colleagues who discussed this law today. On behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I can even say that I am convinced that the law on restitution, that is, the return of unjustly seized property without the rehabilitation law, is actually a mutilated law as a constitution that has no preamble. Both from the day and intent of the ruling coalition, above all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it withdrew the Rehabilitation Act, for us in New Serbia, and it should be clear to all citizens who have been eager to expect this law for 60 years and a few years, that this law will either not be applied or there will be severe benefits from this law that are feasible for dozens and perhaps hundreds of thousands of citizens who have been expecting to correct the injustices for 60 years. The people long ago said, "God of God, king of kings," and to every man, that is, his descendants, who are alive, were followed by the property that he earned or his ancestors. The other day, I had the honour of asking one question, and I had before me two court rulings from where I came from, from Cačka, from the village of Milicevic, where people were tried. One of them, a martyr, God rest his soul, was killed on November 14, 1944 in his backyard, in front of his family, and was tried a year later. Of course, he was declared a people's enemy and confiscated all his property. When we talk about the return law of the seized property, speaking on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club and speaking on my own behalf, I have the feeling, the obligation and the duty to speak, first of all, of those cases which have official judgments, or the rulings of the 2008 District Court in Cačka, where it is said, I hope that some colleagues and citizens who watch this transfer remember to stop all legal consequences by adopting that solution. The witnesses at the trial were members of the other anti-fascist movement, noting, who testified that they had not heard of this man that he had done anything wrong, except that he belonged to the regular royal army of Yugoslavia under the command of Draža Mihajlovic. Such people, such descendants and families are thousands in Serbia, we must say, because in 1945 there were democratic elections, a list that would be called "The Drive of Draža Mihajlovic" or so, in other democratic elections it would have won 90% of the vote. However, power came in the way that many people and families both came in for ideological and political reasons and took lives from many people, as well as property. Now that the day and the moment has come for all of us with one piety and respect for these people to discuss here, to correct the law, to say that we need this injustice, to say to the dead to correct ourselves, we have here discussions that look like we're in 1945, whose discussions are full of ideological exclusions, as if still some battle of water, to say as the people thinks, Chetniks and partisans think. I have to sadden these people who tried to abuse their discussions today, that story ended a few years ago in the National Assembly, where the law was passed with 183:0. Neither was the SPS against, equating the rights of members of the Partizan movement in the war since 1941 and 1945 and members of the Ravnogorje Movement. We won't discuss it anymore or we shouldn't discuss it. If some do not agree with that law, which unfortunately does not apply until the last eunuch in this country dies, but will live their sons and their descendants and will remind every government, every minister and every national assembly that this law will have to be respected, even in a moral sense and even if you withdraw the Rehabilitation Act from here. He'll be on his way very soon. I want to say that living people have that life energy, but it seems to me, from the experiences found by the Serbian people, that the dead also have some energy and have their right even to a honorable and dignified funeral. We can see how some of them here, when they were in charge of political points, were looking for poor Draž Mihajlovic. And then I said, now I want to say publicly, those who seek him and the way they seek him, if that Serb martyr is three metres underground, after their research, there will be 33 metres underground, but justice is slow but affordable. In this restitution law, no substitution exists, practically. If this was the Parliament I wanted it to be, today we would be in this gallery, constantly inviting guests and youth, which is good, as well as foreign citizens to see that there are democracys in this assembly, that we can speak freely, how much, even at some point, we should have invited the descendants of these families to watch what they say here. I think that some of us here with more respect and pythium would talk about these people, about their grandfatherhood, as our people say in my Chacan region, about their property and not make fun of them, wouldn't be re-entering some ideological delusions and loops amongst the Serbian people. Of course, those who have done evil, those who have made themselves rich in an unholy way, I am not talking about the return of property to these people, I am talking about poor Serbian peasants and citizens, we have to say that here, whether or not they liked it, whose members of the Communist party, who were forced, and not democratically came to power in Serbia, took property. I spoke to at least one man, I don't have permission to speak to him on his behalf, for 50 years and a few years he's been looking at the field near his house, which was taken from him and his murdered father. He's not interested in gentlemen of the million euros, he wants that field, he wants that meadow that he first walked and kept sheep and watched lamb be seen on. That someone had to understand, as emotional as we seem to you, what I'm saying, until such things are in the law of peace restitution in Serbia, there will be no justice. When we look at more associations of citizens, so it was, which is good, that I also commend the public debate in this law, but most recently in some public debate to evaluate the bill as it is, I think, citizens' associations, not to say NGOs, who deal with these problems and who gather citizens who are directly interested. Mr. Minister, it seems to me that these return associations have wrongly taken away property, to say openly, robbed, kidnapped, for ideological, political, material reasons, I don't think they've given a transitional assessment. If there is already a claim here by the Government that this is not under the obligation of the European Union, and asking that it is not a condition for candidacy, so if we are 11 years, we are, and here we are, I speak personally in my name, I bear part of the responsibility, because for 10 years I have been a national MP, so we could wait another day, to respect these people, to be one debate, let's say on public television, where they will really be allowed to sit down Mr. Minister, I think personally that you, given how pressured you are from all sides here, in some way, may not expect that someone to praise you as much as you could. But the fact that, after all, following objections in the public debate given by the citizens' associations, after a press announcement, Pajtic and Cvetkovic spoke. If I didn't know and if the citizens didn't know what their functions were, we'd be interested in what Pajtic and Cvetkovic were talking about. Maybe they talked privately. So, about some of the amendments that the Vojvodina Assembly needs to give to the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60722	People's MP, it's not a law that's being searched, which is what you're talking about right now, so I'm asking you to go back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60723	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I think it is, and you think it isn't, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60724	People's MP, neither you nor I can think. The law that's under investigation. I'm obliged to remind you that you need to talk about the agenda. You started talking for a minute and 30 seconds about the law that we closed yesterday, that's the law on public property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60725	Well, I've seen about the relationship between these two things, the principle of the law. If the restitution law, at the last minute, was forced here by the head of a parliamentary group to request that the session be postponed within the hour, because no one knows what amendments they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60726	The People's Councilman, that was yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60727	Ma'am, these are amendments to the restitution law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60728	People's MPs, these were amendments to the Bill on Public Property. It's all over.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60729	Okay, but you think public property and institution has nothing to do with it. In the very law of restitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60730	People's MP, I warn you, bring every kind of argument into contact, but let the subject of the agenda be clear, what happened yesterday, what happened today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60731	Well, here's what I'm going to make clear to you. Therefore, my opinion and the New Serbia MP club that this law will not achieve a declared goal, to make up for people their property and their efforts and their descendants, or their ancestors. When there's no substitution, there's no justice. So why, for example, in this law did not specifically determine why property does not return to people in nature. Why? Well, I think I'm clear enough. So, behind this bill, New Serbia will not be able to stop, we will see in the debate whether this bill will be corrected with amendments, it seems to me that there are more than 250 of them, and that speaks, first of all, about the interest of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that this law will look like it, but to me it all seems to me that this law is being passed under the pressure of the European Union, the European Commission or who will be wondering if we will win the candidacy, and it seems to me that it will end up as a free action by Mladjan Dinkic. But I firmly believe and pray to the Lord God that the National Assembly will be convened by that true one in April next year, and will correct all injustices, and this injustice, 60 years of communist injustice, which you continue to support by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60732	Twelve minutes and 15 seconds spent from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60733	Madam Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I think that after such a discussion in principle, it is appropriate that I give a few answers to a number of questions that have been asked today. First, let us realize that as we have seen in the last ten years, when five governments have been thinking about making and then proposing a law like this, we have seen today, at least some of those topics that occupied our public life and which made it so difficult to come to this proposal. Now, I don't want to say for myself that his value is higher, but I think tonight we can agree that one such law because of the complexity of matter itself, the correcting of injustice after so many years, the fact that this injustice occurred during some of the most tragic moments, not only in the history of our country, but throughout humanity. The fact that this property in Serbia, as well as in all other countries, has been a subject of legally justified traffic, the fact that there has been a situation where a number of owners have lost an heir, all of this and many other things lead to need and I believe that this law is a good answer for it, that one text is being drawn up that will identify all these aspects and give each of these very complex questions an appropriate answer. An appropriate answer is not an ideal that one might see if you were to consider just one angle of this problem. The idea is just something that can be implemented and that fits to the greatest extent possible to this challenge, which is to correct injustice, not to form new injustices and to make it all applicable, that is. to be possible under a certain legal procedure and in accordance with the realistic means of our nation. Allow me, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to, in very short lines, try to answer some of those questions that were raised today, starting with the one that occupied most of this debate, perhaps for some a little unexpected. It's a question of users of this restitution process. I'm starting right now on the issue that was actually the subject of the debate, which is whether members of the occupation forces should be users of the restitution. First, and before I work out this topic, I want to say that in this draft and depending on how the National Assembly is determined, crime is not forgotten, crime is not forgiven. No matter what option the esteemed National Assembly adopts, whether it adopts or does not propose an amendment to the government, one thing is true and true. No one convicted of a crime will be the beneficiary of a restitution. The only way is rehabilitation, and it's not true that we don't have rehabilitation, there's a law here, and I have to agree right away with one number of speakers, including those who recently spoke, and that's very important that in the process, unless a new law is passed, at least this existing law, that it is complete, so that when a judge hears the arguments in that procedure, he hears arguments from both sides. That, Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, we citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be proud of the fact that our country did not have an auto-thony fascist movement. We are one of those countries in Europe that did not produce from their own ranks those who defended this ideology. We had, as much as we argued about the historical facts of this tumultuous time of World War II and what had preceded, we were one of the countries that said no to fascism, which had taken from ordinary citizens, and let it be to the honor of our officers of the steps needed for Serbia to be on the side of not only allies but for Serbia to be a country that has fought Fascism from the very beginning. And none, we will agree on that, the legal project must in no way compromise that light anti-fascist tradition of our country. Now around Article 5. There are two solutions and none are ideal. As much in this law, by the nature of things, must be sought the least bad solution. One solution is what is in that text sent to the National Assembly for adoption, which is that all members of the occupation forces are excluded from the process of restitution and that the burden of proof that they were not members of the occupation forces is to be named. It is a solution that allows the global Republic of Serbia to make it very clear that it remains faithful to this anti-fascist tradition and that it does not want in any way to help those who were supporters of a fascist ideology that today, 70 years later, they are materially benefiting from restitution. What's in that option is a flaw, and we heard it today, we should hear the truth even though she didn't like someone who listened to her, there are cases where people who were citizens of our country forced themselves into some occupation forces didn't commit any crimes against the law and customs of war. There is also this option that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed in this original law, they could possibly ask whether they are victims due to historical circumstances or something else in the middle. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has considered one other option, and it is not to forget who was fascist and who was fighting Fascism, but to say that for our citizens who were in the ranks of the occupation forces, there must be a difference between those who committed crimes, because those who committed crimes are condemned and they, of course, cannot be restitution users. But not one approach that says in principle that anyone who was a member and our domestic nationality should not be a user of restitution. I've given you these two options, and it's no accident that we have these two options today. I believe it may not be at this point the most important element of this law. I believe that actually this law is here to calm tensions, to take another step towards national reconciliation. Maybe it's not much more directed that so many discussions go about some facts that, after all, if we compare to global, with the mass of objects, the life situations that are the subject of this law, there's been a lot of talk about this case, and maybe not enough about some other, much more numerous cases that this law is going to start. All I can say is that the National Assembly will decide what it thinks is more appropriate. There is no ideal solution to this question. In any case, what remains true, however the National Assembly decides, is that no one who is fascist, no one who has committed a crime, will be the beneficiary of the restitution. Two more facts concerning this restitution process. Date – 1945, or 1941? Dear People's MPs, none of the former Yugoslav republics, and they all passed a law on restitution, except BiH, did not propose 1941 as the start of measurement, the start of application of this law, i.e. Looking at the facts during World War II. Why? Because then there would be a danger that has been talked about so much today, which is to try to make Serbia that had the moments and heroic resistance to fascist forces, and then had the Quinslin regime, be forced to pay and bear responsibility for what others have decided on its behalf. That wouldn't be in place. That is why all the former Yugoslav republics, as well as here, the Republic of Serbia, are proposing to be launched and to consider this process of restitution, starting with that date adopted by all other former Yugoslav republics in 1945. I'd like to say a few words about the holocaust right now. The Holocaust and other victims of fascism who do not have living heirs is a specific situation. That is why, of course, in light of what I said earlier, and that is the anti-fascist tradition of the Republic of Serbia that does not recognise the legal continuity with the Nedic regime and anyone who goes in that direction is doing harm to his own state. In that light, of course, we are ready to consider those amendments that will further strengthen that view and therefore we are pleased to have discussed it. The treatment of the Jewish minority, the Roma minority, as well as the Serb majority of the Serbian people and all other peoples who were victims of the Holocaust is specific. That is why I would like to say that those issues raised about the source of the funds, we will be able to discuss this in detail when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and today I have committed myself on its behalf that such a law, which is provided for by this law, will, if adopted, be proposed before the end of the term of office of this government. And that's where we'll figure out where the money came from, which is what it's meant to be, how it's paid for the memorial, what it's going to be in the fund, who's going to run it for what purposes. Of course we won't do it in isolation. We will work with all parliamentary parties. We will work, first of all, with representatives of the victims of the Holocaust, the communities of the Jewish municipalities, but also other representatives of the Serbian people who want to guard the sacred tradition and to remind ourselves of those victims of fascism that were not Jewish nationalities. Yes, within a few weeks, 7,900 Jews have lost their lives. I've read everything I've been able to find about this case in preparation for this law. What happened, no one can say that the stain on the cheek of the Serb people, because it was not done by Serbs, but no one can say that it did not happen, and no one must forget that a concentrationnikamp was present here in Belgrade and because of that, in the interest of history and truth, and in fact that the Serbian people have a lot to be proud of in this fight against fascism, we will propose a law that will form a single memorial centre and a fund that will manage it and that, since it was a question, we will also work with the Terezen Declaration, where we were an observer, and we will work to bring the standard and this memorial to work in the years to come. That no one has any illusions, in this law as well as in this, there will be no demagogy, by the way, one of the highest representatives of that Jewish people, in NOB Moshe Piyade himself assigned a piece of that memorial to our art artists. In this place we have legally populated artists who some of them don't see the reason why they would have to change places of their lives, where they've been creating for decades, they don't have time tonight, but they can give a list of these artists, and among them are some of the brightest names of art since World War II. That's what we'll talk about when the time comes for this law and it's important, and I think it will continue to illuminate our country's anti-fascist tradition and complete this law. Finally, on the question of users, a matter of borrowing has been asked, and it is right that some MPs have asked a question, and how will we know if the employee is a legal follower? I can tell you that we already have four demands for one debt today. The reason why we don't spread a circle of taxpayers past employees is that at least for them there are laws and procedures before the Ministry of Culture and by March of next year, everything must be registered. They won't register two as heiress, they'll register one. You probably know, respected MPs, that there are now in Belgrade today, in Serbia, some, call, duties that in the last 10-15 years collect very significant incomes from the leases in Belgrade and that will not be able to register under this law, so that in that domain, the task will come to the clearing of the situation but, on the other hand, if we want to connect the thread there with one of the other traditions of our people, which is borrowing, it is good to try only to restore those legitimate responsibilities their work, but also to get back their property. Since no one mentioned it today, I have to say to my surprise, there is a question of protected household law, and there have been a lot of stories in our public and we have had meetings with representatives of those of our citizens who have protected the right to housing. Let's figure out the facts first. Those apartments that are subject to return are the only apartments that can be returned to the post. We have seen in our media, in a public debate that some say that the restitution threatens tens of thousands of our citizens who have protected housing rights. That's not true because this is about some three hundred apartments, if we compare them to several tens of thousands, but the vast majority of these apartments are already in private property and, of course, it can't be the subject of this law and this status of protected household law is regulated by the House Act and I want here to announce an additional dialogue that will have a restoring ministry and possible changes in the House Act that will contribute to finally cutting Gordi's knot from one side of the families who have been living and paying very low rents for some of the most attractive apartments in Belgrade, but without a legal, clear outcome and, on the other hand, the owners primarily private persons, and tomorrow the debt that they have, the costs that belong to the owner, but very low income from that property. This is not a sustainable situation and it is not good that in 1990 the state promised to find an alternative solution for these citizens and that with honorable exceptions it did not happen, so that the issue which is not the subject of this law is before us and we will deal with it in the weeks to come. As far as the maximum is concerned, it is mentioned, the maximum of 500,000 euros for compensation is something that is practice in other countries as well. One MP mentioned, and that is true, that one powerful Germany provided as a maximum of 15,000 German marks. We have to remember that, it's often shown to us as if our country is the only one who isn't able to bring it back. One powerful Western Germany on the issue of restitution in East Germany has provided a maximum of 15,000 German marks and on average returned about 10% of the estimated value of the assets. That's true, you shouldn't run away from that truth either. On the other hand, times change. There has been a lot of waiting, there have been other practices and I can only say that neighbouring Croatia has also adopted this 500,000-euro limit per user and per former owner. That's what we're proposing. The effect of that, of course, we will know the exact facts when one valid application is made, will be that the estimated two to three thousand citizens who could claim to more than that amount will in some ways be in solidarity with the remaining 140 to 45 thousand citizens who will receive more due to this limit. The reference was to counterpart Parivodić, who proposed, although it was not a bill, because it did not pass the committees, let alone the government, and in that law it was envisaged a limit, so it is not a newspaper in our country either. As he said, I repeat here, the idea of restitution is to correct, as far as possible, the historical injustice, and not to form from the funds of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have an average salary of 370 euros, a new class of millionaires in euros, so that in this sense Serbia does not give up any practice either. I just want to remind myself that this provision is in German law and the Croatian law has been attacked before their constitutional courts and that their constitutional courts have confirmed the validity of the general interest of such a limit. So much for those who say, "See you in Strasbourg." As far as land and agriculture are concerned, there have been several questions here, I would like to confirm that the amendment to the government, I am pleased that the MPs are also satisfied about it, have significantly expanded the possibilities of co-ordination, and in this way, when we talk about what will be gained in nature, I repeat that because of this definition of cohesion, we will be able to be able to be able to take citizens, and we will talk about it a little later and for other users, like churches, we will be able to return even more agricultural land and forest. That's good because the largest number, that's what this field in Chačka was about, we'll be able to, I'm deeply convinced, that almost everywhere, as far as agricultural land and forests are concerned, back in nature. If not that very field and plot because the tuna was built today, then not far from there. In any event, as far as the vineyards and vineyards are concerned, they are only issued at market value at the moment. There's an auction and people who are interested give the best price possible. At first, the first draft of the law did not provide for orchards and vineyards to return, here they are projected to return, to return immediately the property, but if there is a tenant, that the rights of that tenant provided by one market principle are preserved until the end of one lease. The longest deadline, you're right, Mrs. Kolundjia, in this law is 40 years, but if it's been 10 years, it's an additional 30. It simply takes so long for vineyards to give their economic value. Of course, during that period the rent does not collect the state, but collects the new owner. Just a few more elements around the bond. We proposed that bonds be in euro not because we do not trust our coin, but because we are in a transitional period, when the Republic of Serbia is considering the emission of bonds denominated in dinars, indexed on inflation. We initially suggested this, but we heard the arguments of the former owners, and it is essentially just that the first state for its own purposes proves that such a financial instrument works, that it is for the benefit of the investor, that it only then proposes such financial instruments to its own citizens, especially if these citizens have been waiting for more than 60 years to achieve this benefit. As a result, we are also considering these amendments that some political parties have proposed, which would allow citizens who are 65 and 70 years old to be somewhat shorter. These amendments will be seen and looked kindly and anything that can ensure that these bonds are as attractive as possible will be accepted. At last, there's no reason for anyone to scare anyone, and at least the Colonists in Vojvodina that someone from abroad will come and take their house, the orchard. That's not gonna happen. Look at article 10. The law. That's the second principle, the key principle of this law, which is that no new injustice should be made by this law. If someone already owns their own house, she'll stay his own house. No one will be taken from a house he has and bought legally to give to someone else. That means that protection exists. That protection is one of the principles of this law as a member of Article 10. Colonists have nothing to fear. Finally, I will end up with what has often been the subject of debate, which is that natural substitution. If she were possible, we would suggest her. But someone said it during the debate today, so you're already doing it. There's been a Republic Property Directorate substituting. Dear People's MPs, you remember, like me, the huge number of questions that were asked when someone noticed that one user got a square-square replacement, that he suggested a parking lot in Zemun and that he had a business space in the stricter centre of Belgrade and it turned out to be a scandal. We're not gonna do that with 150 grand of families. Substitutational and, as I said, this is not about agricultural land and forests, is something that cannot be regulated legally, thoroughly and justly. That's why the countries they tried failed. That is why all the countries that have tried have warmly recommended that we do not go into the process that will only be popular at first, but when it comes to its application, it will lead to endless legal entanglements, lawsuits, lawsuits, and criminal charges against the responsible persons. I can tell you in full conscience, because for ten years I have been dealing with some impasses and state administration, that the rights of tactics and strategies and the Agency for Restitution and at the depth of the administration, if it is proposed to it and in contact with citizens, some institute for which they have no security to implement it without damaging one or the other, the final outcome will be called paralysis. Paralysis and non-determination, because that's the most difficult thing our administration can do to avoid being personally under pressure, so that they don't personally bear responsibility for something that they can't fully explain to those who are users. I guess it's not the idea to get into a new paralysis 60-70 years later. That's the difference between this law, this government and maybe some other ideas. We do not deal with demagogue ideas and what looks nice on paper, but it is not implemented in reality, but we look at what we will effectively succeed and make it successful and that those who expect it benefit so long. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I can only agree with some MPs who today said the time has come for the law to return the seized property and the compensation. Is it high time, I don't know? All I know is that law I proposed 10 years ago would have been easier. We're not gonna wait another 10 years. As we can see in this debate, it is difficult to solve all these complex things, to find the right historical legal, financial, property balance. I am deeply convinced that this law represents this point of balance, that two billion euros in our country's resources to solve an injustice that will add something that will not be less than two and a half billion, and I'm sure, and a little more property, is the right measure for one great injustice, certainly not the only one, but a great injustice that, if, honourable MPs, you decide to support the vote of this law and that you will also participate. Thank you very much. I expect support, not only of the ruling coalitions, but I also hope very broad support for the return law of the seized property and the compensation. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60734	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements on Returns (Restitulation) of the Property of Churches and Religious Communities. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and shall be distributed to the parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs, so that the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia (G 17 plus and ZZ) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the parliamentary group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for the word, with the order of the Members of Parliament on the basis of the obligation set out in Article 96(4). I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, MP of the PUPS; MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP of New Serbia; MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Vjerica Radeta, MP of the SRS; MP Kenan Hajdarevic, MP of LDP and MP Jelena Budimirovic, MP for Serbia. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60735	The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, is before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Return, Restitution, Property to Churches and Religious Communities. In 2006, this law was passed. There were a lot of questions at the time why it was moving in the restitution, and why is it moving in the restitution with only one category? Why does he only move with one question? Would it be questionable to first provide roof restitution law and then to go gradually? Either way, today we have experience applying this law that has given certain results. I would like to, before I explain these changes and additions, just to tell the MPs and our public to apply in the last three years, i.e. 45% of the requested land and 19% of the requested facilities were returned from 2007-2010, as regards SPC. It is something that can be considered, given the experience of other similar procedures, one successful procedure. We must immediately say that the differences between dioceses are very large. In some dioceses, we have almost complete procedure. In some dioceses, we have a procedure that has just begun. At the same time, we can be pleased that the largest church in our country had the opportunity to participate in this process. We also now have a certain experience that has shown difficulties in applying this law, resistance, why not say some public enterprises why not name them – "Serbishum", which, some of them, have done everything they could to make the restitution process difficult. Therefore, this job is well started, and for SPC statistics are better than others. I would now give statistics for others, not all of them, but at the reception of the Roman Catholic Church, for them 12% of the land was returned, for all other churches and religious communities and we have 5% of the land that was returned and 13% of the buildings. This procedure that has been initiated, it has not yet been completed. That's why it's very important for this restitution to continue, to speed up its pace. I have to say that one of the problems was V.D. The state of this directive, at the beginning of its establishment, when the Prime Minister became Mr. Cvetkovic, was appointed and full of power. But lately, and those who criticise are absolutely right there, we have a new stalemate. Here tonight, I can only take the obligation on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the stalemate will be compensated very quickly in the coming weeks. A number of people were probably waiting to see what would happen to this restitution law, so globally. That shouldn't be an excuse for a delay in this confessional restitution, i.e. Restitution towards churches and religious communities. In any case, it has been established that this procedure is possible. He gave a good experience for the law we were just discussing. We've seen the problems. This was mentioned in the previous debate, although the replacement natural restitution was foreseen, no single subject on this law found its outcome through replacement. So we don't just have to talk about other people's experiences, but we've seen in our country all the difficulties that are a replacement restitution. In accordance with the general law on the return of seized property, it is proposed that the way in which religious communities have access to restitution is also consistent with the rights of natural persons, citizens and employees, and hence, that these two models, i.e. Returning to nature where the original property is available, to do so and to go to compensation. The second element in this law that is suitable is that the provisions of the general law on restitution will also apply to this law on confiscation. This specifically means that the definition of comassion, which to underline, does not exist in the law of confessional restitution. The way it was done, unfortunately, wasn't standard enough and that's why those who have been in practice, who have been dealing with this business for more than five years, one of the problems that we've had is that this procedure and the way that could have been done through the massage mass is not sufficiently well-founded. Now both churches and religious communities have a broad, good definition of co-operation that will and will help to restore agricultural land and forest to our churches and religious communities. The second element that I would mention here is, as you can see in the original draft of this law, that is. The law passed in 2006 was not a possible compensation. As far as compensation is concerned, it is said to be regulated by the general law on restitution if this esteemed home votes the restitution law we have just discussed and the churches and religious communities will also have the opportunity to receive compensation where returning to nature is not possible. So it's an additional benefit it opens for churches and religious communities of this law. Finally, if we look at things organisationally, this law has been implemented by the Restitution Directorate, which currently has 17 employees, and unfortunately, there has been a certain depletion of personnel lately. We can say that the formation of a restitution agency that will take over the Restitution Directorate will provide two things: firstly, that there is no day-long delay in the application of the Law on Confessional Restitution and on the other hand, that a much stronger administration or agency will have 200 employees in perspective, with a position in our state system that we have seen from the previous debate, will be in a much better position to provide restitution for both our churches and our religious communities. Dear People's MPs, I invite you to vote for amendments and supplement the Law on the return of churches and religious communities. In contrast to what may be heard, it takes nothing from this procedure to churches and religious communities, more than what has been possible for five years of this law. On the contrary, it opens up the possibility of compensation, opens up a much clearer path towards cohesion, opens up the possibility of this process being conducted through a much stronger administration. That is why I expect this confessional restitution that will continue to experience new dynamics and a much better outcome in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60736	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60737	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, effectively corrects the methodology for assessing the property of the issue of government bonds, as well as other issues important for monetary compensation, which are one of the forms of restitution, and above all for religious communities and churches. Part of the provisions of the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, relating to compensation, because so far it has not been possible to apply, because the solutions referred to the application of the general law on restitution, which regulates the return of property and compensation, which will soon be adopted. And this draft law will have to provide for two basic forms of restitution, which are natural restitution and monetary compensation, following the adoption of the general law on restitution. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law sets out certain solutions that were in the previous law to a new norm which connects the previous law with the new general law and will in the future be in line with this law. In accordance with these proposed amendments, the provision on the determination of the value of the seized property is deleted, followed by the provision on government bonds, the provision on the calculation of the applied and lost profits and the provision on the right to regress and are in future governed by the general law on return and compensation, i.e. by the restitution law. It was important for our parliamentary group to make this proposal and amend Article 22 of the Law, because in the future, the process of restitution of churches and religious communities will deal with a single restitution agency, which is established under the new law on general restitution, while the former Restitution Directorate ceases its work. We believe that the provision of the Law on Contracting Resolution requires that restitution and alignment remain in force, regardless of what the draft of this law stipulates that such a provision should be abolished. Given that the new general law on restitution does not recognise this provision, with the assessment that it can be a source of arbitration and various misunderstandings, and besides, we support the position to bring the system of legal medicines into line in both laws, if it is borne in mind that the law on confiscation does not know the appeal, but rather the party, directly points to the administrative dispute. So, on the proposed amendment, if it is adopted, churches and religious communities will have the right to appeal in the restitution process for first-degree resolutions of the Agency for Restitution, and then the right to appeal to the Administrative Court, as well as all other civil legal and physical persons. A good principle has been declared by this draft law on the proper application of the general law governing confessional restitutions and which comply with the general law. Given that this legal solution is a significant correction of an existing solution that will give new quality to speed up the restitution of churches and religious communities, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60738	Five minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60739	When a naive entity hears a legal formulation of the Bill on Amendments and Law Supplements, it may have a logical assumption that it is about the addition of something that already exists in terms of improvement and developmental adaptation to emerging circumstances. It's hard for anyone to be normal, however immoral, to see changes worsen legal norms. The law on the restoration of property to churches and religious communities was passed in 2006 at the time of the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica. The provisions of the law were not complained against by churches, religious communities, or interested citizens, and should not have been improved, but merely applied. With the change of government, there has also been a change in relations with the application of this law, whose implementation has been practically blocked by the current Serbian government. Rationalisation for the inability to apply the basic law was the fact that the state could not appoint a new director of the Restitution Directorate, because old Director Vladimir Todorovic had expired his mandate, so there was no one to sign a decision on the return of church property at the beginning of this year. In addition, there was also a thesis on the unconstitutional, alleged, individual provisions of this law, which indirectly affected its non-application. While the Constitutional Court's assessment was pending, which has, by the way, confirmed the constitutionality of this law, the property return process has stopped. The cash compensation that was also prescribed by this law so far has not been paid, so that part of the law has not been applied at all. In the application of the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, there were many similar delays, and the former finance minister, and since 3 September this year, Vice Governor Diana Dragutinovic, has asked to stop the return of property to churches until the issue is resolved by the general law on restitution. Aleksandar Necak, president of the Union of Jewish municipalities of Serbia, had already reacted sharply to the initiative of the then ministerial finance, with a comment -- it seems to me that since the adoption of this law, the states are doing everything they can to keep its application as much as possible. The devastating sound of the fact that the current government has effectively suspended the application of this church's law on restitution, although it is in the legal force further confirmed by the Constitutional Court in a recent decision on the constitutionality of the regulation. The suspension of the law was established by the citizens' protector in his regular annual report for 2010. This strange law enforcement blockade brings in an additional amount of mistrust, not only in churches and religious communities, but also in a large part of the citizens who are personally interested in returning their private property. It even turned out that the law enforcement blockade by this government was not the end, because the government was, in fact, preparing the ground for the final blow, which is the abolition of the already achieved level of guaranteed human rights, churches and religious communities on property. So, just when a naive subject would think that there is no worse than a bad one, there is an innovative government in Serbia whose greatest sin is not only what does not do good, but without eyes or transparency do direct evil and by whom - churches and religious communities. It is no wonder that all representatives of the churches and religious communities in Serbia have characterized such a restitution as a perfecting kidnapping. Rather than applying the right already given to churches and religious communities and citizens, the owners of the property seized, the government now reduces the level of property rights achieved to the churches. In that sense, churches and religious communities have been returned only a small part of the property that has been subject to their demands, although the law has been applied for five years. More specifically, certain churches and religious communities were not returned to any of what they required, despite the fact that the total requirements of this law represent less than 5% of the total state property. In doing so, representatives of traditional churches of religious communities assessed that the provisions of the Law on Restitution constitute a continuation of injustice, which led the government to return the seized property to a deliberate conclusion. Vladika Irinaj's grandmother said that this way is practically abolished and the idea that it is a confirmation of the decades-old injustice, which is precisely leading to perverse perfection and perfectment of that injustice. He also estimated that the government's goal is to reduce the level of human rights achieved to churches and religious communities by the announced amendments to the law, under the pretext of providing equality for the owners of the seized property. According to Vladika Irinej, instead of applying the law previously given in churches and to the citizens of the owners of the seized property, the government is now reducing the level of law to churches. It is about how the obligation to return to churches comes to a minimum, i.e. on the farce, as well as to return to the citizens as little as possible, Vladika Iriney told the grandmother. Belgrade archbishop Stanislav Kočevar estimated that the government's proposal to amend the law confirms that it blocked the enforcement of the Church Restitution Act in recent years to reduce acquired rights of religious communities. Critics are also joined by Serbian Mufti Muhamed Jusufspahic, who said that the Islamic community of Serbia has so far not been returned from property, and now they want to reduce what they need to return, he said. The president of the Union of Jewish municipalities in Serbia, Aleksandar Necak, said that religious communities would inform the world's public about the disputed moves of the Serbian government about the restitution and assessed that the public debate on the draft law and the general restitution was a bad performance. The injustice against Serbian Jews has been translated into part of the proposal for the return of property and the compensation related to the robbery of Jewish property, for the last month it has been viewed first in ignoring all the righteous and reasonable demands of the Jewish community in Serbia, so that it will then be adopted by the Serbian government. If the proposed legal acts are adopted in the Serbian Parliament, the Jewish community expects Tadic not to support the law. The Jewish community is further said to disagree with the proposal that the consequences of confiscation of property to victims of the Holocaust on Serbian territory, who do not have living heirs, are removed by regulating the establishment of a memorial centre fund that would manage them. That is, according to the community, contrary to the 2009 Terezin Declaration by Serbia, which has committed to correcting the decades-old injustice created by the illegal kidnapping of Jewish property requires a fair and adequate restitution or an adequate compensation for the protection of property rights. The correction of the decades-old injustice cannot be achieved by making a new one, because while the victims of the holocaust honor themselves at the same time, their descendants are condemned to an unwitting and easy death, or their last possibility of being financially independent and fostering Jewish identity is lifted. It is said in a statement by the Union of Jewish Municipalitys of Serbia a week ago, and Alliance President Aleksandar Necak adds -- I guarantee we will not enter into Europe by this law, and that they are not exactly statements by the authorities and that the EU has agreed with such a bill. The key question is who will have the property that will be returned to, he says. Representatives of the churches have not only criticised the law concerning church but in general restitution, noting that it too unjustly protects persons who have unwittingly acquired nationalised property, but therefore reduces the attainable level of property rights to churches and ordinary citizens. With criticism from the churches of the Iverian communities, representatives of the Association of Old Owners and Restitution Networks also agreed, estimating that the abolition of the replacement restitution of the kidnapped property speaks of an unhidden intention to deprive anyone whose property has been seized of the right to the property in order to claim it from someone on the side. As a result, property can be suspected to those who are party-controlled, public-owned, local self-government and privileged individuals. As the representatives of the League for the Protection of Human Rights, the overemphasizing of the flora of correcting old injustice and insisting on modesty in solving this problem, as the Lords of transition say, casts a heavy shadow on the essence of the restitution process. It also neutralises the importance of restitution for the success of the transition in Serbia and its importance for the process of introducing Serbia into the order of democratically decorated and stable states of the modern civilised world. At a press conference on September 7th 2011, the next announcement of traditional churches and religious communities in Serbia appeared in Belgrade's archbishop's premises. The objective of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reduce the attainment of human rights to churches and religious communities' level of human rights, in this anti-constitutional way to ensure that former owners are entitled to equal legal protection by means of announced amendments and additions to the Law of Return of Churches and Religious Communities. Instead of providing the former owners with the right to equal legal protection in restitution, when adopting the same scope of property rights, which has been recognised by law to churches and religious communities, the government is reducing this level of property law, which is a direct violation of Article 20(2) of the RS Constitution. Secondly, through the unconstitutional failure of the Law on the Restitution of Church Property, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia now, after the expiry of the deadline for its implementation, proposes amendments and additions to the law, making it clear that the blockade of its execution and exercise, in order to reduce the scope of rights acquired to churches and religious communities. Namely, the provisions of Article 31. The law on the return of property to churches and religious communities is prescribed that the competent Restitution Directorate must reach a solution to the submitted requirements within six months. Churches and religious communities, based on the provisions of Article 25 of the same law, have already submitted their demands by 30 September 2008. Instead of bringing solutions within the prescribed six-month deadline, no later than 30 March 2009, the government has now brought churches and religious communities into a situation to run out of part of its property, although they have acted under the law, by blocking the application of this law. Third, in this way, the government commits the most serious violation of the Constitution of the guaranteed right of churches and religious communities to property, contrary to the constitutional principle of rule of law. Churches and religious communities, under the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, have acquired the property right to return seized property under the conditions laid down in that law. Fourthly, by blocking the implementation of the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, by failing to implement replacement restitution and monetary compensation, as well as by unnamed Director of the Restitution Directorate, and now by abolishing the substitute institution and limiting the amount of cash compensation through the announced changes to that law, it has effectively, inappropriately reduced the amount of return of property to churches and religious communities. Churches and religious communities have also had their objections to the General Law on Restitution, but the chairman will remind me if I return to the previous agenda. In any case, the remarks of traditional churches and religious communities, which were made in this notice, were signed by the Episcope of the Irinej grandmothers, in the name of the SPC; Archbishop and Metropolitan Belgrade-based Stanislav Kočevar, the Roman Catholic Church; Bishop Samuel Vrbovski, Slovak Chuckelic Church; Bishop Istvan Chetsemese, Reformer's Christian Church; Bishop of Arapad Dolinski, Evangelical Christian Church; Reis-ul-ul-ulema Adem Zilkic, Islamic Community of Serbia; Aleksandar Necak, Jewish community of Serbia. So if all those representatives of the churches and religious communities in Serbia do not have any authority, I will warn all of you who are ready to raise your hand "for" such a proposal as you will bear not only the current, but the historical responsibility, since you are consciously voting for the adoption of an unconstitutional bill. The provisions of Article 20(2) shall apply. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is most strictly prohibited from restricting the already achieved level of human rights, in which it is, in particular, the abolition, already achieved level of guaranteed human rights of churches and religious communities on property under Article 58. The Constitution. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, by its decision of 20 April 2011, has practically confirmed the constitutionality of the 2006 basic law and its agreement with the approved international agreements and the generally accepted rules of international law. In view of this unconstitutional restriction on the level of human rights reached on the property of churches and religious communities, it is also questionable that other Constitution of guaranteed rights cannot be exercised without the corresponding property base provided for by the provisions of the basic law, guaranteed rights under Article 44. The constitution where churches and religious communities perform religious rituals, establish religious schools, social and charity institutions. The right of citizens referred to in Article 43 shall be guaranteed. The Constitution to exercise faith and convince religion, perform religious rituals, attend religious service and teaching. The draft law practically has a retroactive fact that is prohibited by the provisions of Article 197. The Constitution. This return fact of the bill is reflected in the following facts, because churches and religious communities have already filed all requirements for the return of property under Article 25 of the basic law by the end of the legal period laid down in the basic law, so until 30 September 2008. Because on 30 March 2009, the legal deadline laid down in Article 31 of the basic law expired for the adoption of a solution under these submitted requests by churches and religious communities for the return of property. Thus, the fundamental constitutional principle of the rule of law of Article 3 is violated globally. A constitution without which we cannot talk about the rule of law. The law on the return of property and compensation cannot constitute the basic law in relation to the law on church restitution and cannot be applied to all that is not prescribed by them because it is contrary to the provisions of Articles 9 and 10. The 2005 Law on the Registration and Recording of Assets. The provisions of Articles 9 and 10 of the Law on the Registration and Recording of Assets, whose constitutionality has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court, stipulates that special laws regulate the return of property to churches and religious communities as well as general restitution. So, in the end, you'll have to decide whether you're just going to sneak into the European Union by demonstrating the rule of law in relation to yourself and your own, or simply continuing the terrible time with the famous sequence, we'll stick to the law as a drunken vessel, including the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60740	Sixteen minutes used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60741	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities as today's law on restitution, we have heard of the aim of correcting historical injustices. But for LDP, these laws only make sense if they do not produce new injustices, or if the application of these laws is not the cause of some new injustices. Unfortunately, the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities may be the best example of not applying a law, or the adoption of a law may be an initial capsule for political instability. I think too much about creating political instability in the Sandzak area. In the light of this law, we can read that the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities has been in place for four years. Under that law, close to 40% of the land seized and 15% of the taken objects were returned by the end of 2010. Also in the opening statement of Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, we heard a little more detailed data, that about 45% of the property was returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church about 12%, and the other religious communities about 13%. In which Mr Djelic, in his presentation and in this explanation, has kept one fact silent, and that fact says that in four years' time, the Islamic community has been returned to 0. Zero objects, 0% and that's just impossible, that's just unacceptable. If we ask why this was done, we'll hear a hypocritical explanation, because there's no telling who's supposed to return the property to. Like there are two Islamic communities. I'm just going to do chronology and I think this is important because of the ruling coalition's MPs to see exactly what this is about. The law on churches and religious communities was adopted in 2006. After that, there was a coincidence of interest between the government of Vojislav Kostunica and a Bosniak leader, Mr. Ugljanin, today's minister. A combination of interests in this regard that his MPs were to support the government of the Republic of Serbia, and in return, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or Minister Radulovic, introduced another Islamic community into the register of churches and religious communities. And when someone says it is impossible to return property to the Islamic community because there are two Islamic communities, it is for citizens of Serbia, Muslims, Bosniaks, hypocritical. It is as if the government of the Republic of Serbia recognises the bishop Artemia and his attempt to create a church and says he cannot return property to the Serbian Orthodox Church because there are two Orthodox Serbian churches. That's the parallel. And what's in the Sandzak area for us isn't allowed is that continuity. The continuity of politics initiated by the government of Vojislav Kostunica over the blackmail of Mr Ugljanin, a continuity that is also being conducted by the government of the Republic of Serbia today. You must make it clear that you should not agree to such blackmail because this leads to instability and instead of solving this instability which is evident and which is clear, you are trying to create new problems to get off the list of problems this basic problem, which is that at the moment of the adoption of this law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, there was only one Islamic community, the Islamic community in Serbia and that it is the only legitimate holder of the Islamic community. Everything else is an attempt to impose riots or, as Mr Djelic said in the final presentation for the previous law, paralysis of implementing a law. I think we must finally stand there as the government of Serbia and in general as a society, because the mention of persons who were otherwise representatives of Ugaljanin's party in Tutin represents for Bosniaks, or Muslims, an insult. We need to be aware of that, and we need to be clear about that. Another problem that we can see and which may be in the announcement, which concerns a possible amendment submitted by the Bosniak MPs for the European Sandzak and here I would like to warn the MPs of the ruling coalition not to accept this amendment because they have provided for an amendment to introduce the Batutian Directorate, or a Directorate appointed by the Serbian Government, which would be returned to the Batutian, or property belonging to the property community. That is to say, the state that seized the property of the Islamic community is returning it to one of the institutions to which the state would appoint. This is the first logically impossible, and the second can be the introduction to new political instability and what is the most important discrimination, because if this amendment is accepted and this vacuum directorate is introduced, how will the Islamic community have the ability to manage the property that has been kidnapped from it, if it does not participate in political life? The Liberal Democratic Party, and I think that all parties in this House are absolutely in favour of secularism, namely the separation of the church from the state. But creating a vacuum directorate under the authority of the Serbian government can be an additional excuse. We must not agree to this, that is, you as the ruling coalition must not agree to this amendment, if it is necessary for the majority to vote in this law to seek out another majority, but do not agree to the blackmails of those MPs who, because of their personal or other interests, want to destabilise the political situation in certain parts of Serbia. That's the point. And that is the essence of all the conflicts that occur in the Sandzak area. Because if it hadn't been for this law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, or if it hadn't been for that agreement, not to use any other word, between the government of Vojislav Kostunica, or the minister of the then faith with Mr. Ugljanin, we wouldn't have in this intensity those problems that occur in Sandzak as we do today. That's true. Everything else is a distraction to the public. We have to be aware of that and we have to work on it, otherwise the Islamic community has sent it to the Agency, or the Restitution Directorate, or to restore property to churches and religious communities over 30 requests for return of vacuum property, where the vacuum does not mean only one property, it in its composition, to explain for the citizens of Serbia, usually covers more objects, or parcels. Let the average of these facilities be around 10, that means over 340 objects on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, so far, zero has been returned and that's what's simply inadmissible and that's what can't be said to anyone who's healthy in reason to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60742	Eight minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Milos Aligrudic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60743	Thank you. You know how, it's not my reason to answer the line in need of a picture, because there's no direct transmission here, this people will look at it only after midnight, in a delayed transmission, hopefully, and very few people. So there's really no comforting need for me to publicly prosecute and argue, but I'd just like to ask. I understand that there is a need to interpret events from the past and to give them a certain political meaning, such as the predecessor when he spoke about the government of Vojislav Kostunica being in fact, now I paraphrasise, guilty of tearing up the Islamic community to some two, in this case as he says it was non-ligite acts and that's why the property didn't come back. You know how, the state can't interfere with these relationships, and the state interferes or reacts, registers someone when there's pressure and it's public, not some politician, if someone's pulling someone's sleeve, but there's serious pressure. The parallel given here is not ideal, nor good, and the big question is that it happens, what Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic was talking about, this hypothetical situation, the Serbian Orthodox Church, in order for the state to react, whatever the government is, would probably have to react by confessing, is not the state there to admit, that we understand, but can only establish a relationship for the necessary communication. That's the problem, and the main culprit is no government, no agreements between politicians, whether they exist or not, no matter how they interpret them, it's the one who doesn't enforce the law. When there's a dispute over law enforcement, then the court reacts and that's the whole thing, and I'll talk about it later as an authorised head of the group about what's wrong with the law and why it hasn't been implemented. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60744	Right on line, MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60745	I'll try to be even more specific about defining what happened in 2007. At that time, the Law on Churches and Religious Communities was already in force. One of the members of the law says they can register church and religious communities, traditional churches, only one, SPC, only one Roman Catholic church, only one Islamic Serb community and only one Jewish community. No public pressure. Either the law is respected, or the law is not respected. Then, because of the agreement, I will remind you, some of you were then MPs in the Serbian Parliament and at one point came to the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of Vojislav Kostunica, when two MPs from G 17 left the ruling coalition, because of two MPs of the Bosniak List for the European Sanjak, Minister of Faith, Mr Radulovic, in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, signed another NGO under the law, if you will call this an Islamic community. He broke the law. There's no pressure from the public, there can't be public pressure on the law, so the law isn't respected. It can change the law, but the law cannot be changed because it is not respected because of public pressure. That's the facts. Now we can be politically different and I really don't want to go into it, but when we talk about law-abiding or law-abiding, or law-abiding, the law applies to everyone equally or cannot apply to anyone. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60746	The word is by MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60747	So this shows that it's actually all about interpretation. I'm really not fascinated by the obsession of LDP members Vojislav Kostunica and DSS. They can only explain it to themselves, it's an interpretation here, and I didn't specify the provisions of the law, and I wasn't talking about whether or not the law respects it, I was talking about the hypothesis, answering the hypothetical question, so we didn't seem to understand each other. So it wasn't the subject of the debate. What I meant by the obstruction of law enforcement and where the essence is, because I think the essence here is missing. What's the problem with all this, I'll talk about it later, so we don't waste any time now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60748	People's MP Kenan Hajdarevic, there's a word and we're going to close this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60749	Only two sentences, the chairman, agreeing with Mr. Aligrudic, should not spread this story because it is our close past, but I would like to say once again what the citizens of Serbia of Bosniaks feel like when someone says the Islamic community of Serbia headed by some Zilkic. That's the point, and when someone in Serbia says that Bosniaks are being discriminated against, then believe that they have a basis, because how else do they say that the SPC has been returned 45% of the assets and the Roman Catholic Church 12% and the Islamic community 0%. How to explain to someone that there is one SPC in the church register, one Roman Catholic church, one Jewish community, and there are two Islamic communities. Isn't that discrimination, aren't they double arches?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60750	National MP Milos Aligrudic, if he wants a word as president of the parliamentary group, and I only ask you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60751	It is a shame that this law is not discussed at some time more awake than these small hours, and it is a shame that there is no direct transmission, the simple decision of the Assembly was to do so. Why is it a shame? Because this debate is very interesting, especially about this bill on the return of property to churches and religious communities. This is about a proposal to amend the law, amend and supplement the existing law, and we will immediately see what these changes are all about. I'll cut them to two groups. The first group is those amendments, i.e. the addition of laws relating to the amendment of laws relating to the way in which the property is returned. So, so far, a law that has been in force since 2006, when it was brought in, there was the possibility of replacing property as a kind of return on property in case the same property that was once taken away from church religious communities cannot be returned. In the amendments to the law, that possibility is deleted. The second key change is the change of organs that are competent to care for the application of this law. Instead of the Restitution Directorate, the Agency for Restitution is introduced and it will be the same agency that is responsible for implementing the general law on the return of property. As far as the other guy's concerned, there's still some point in that. There's some internal logic in all this. But as far as this first one is concerned, that's where they come in, that's where all the problems start and end with this law. I don't even know how much the public can watch what we're talking about, because it'll be a little later, working people usually sleep at that time, but here's to talk to my colleagues, first of all from the DS, who are present here in parliament. So, you know that this law, the way that it is now amended and supplemented, as it will be adopted, it actually points to the application of the provisions of the general law on the return of property, so that all provisions that do not specifically refer to the return of property to church religious communities, means only return, return procedure, return measures, the way in which the compensation will all be done under the general law. Now that we've found it undeniable, let's see what's wrong with this law. The problem with this law is that it cannot be viewed separately from some of the problems that we have mentioned about possible subsequent application of the general law. First, the fact that the replacement is lost as a compensation or return model is a serious problem. The way to solve this problem was seen by the Government, as we saw in the case of the first debate, in order for the state to declare itself, and the Assembly to accept through the adoption and general law, and indirectly and this, by establishing one monetary amount, it is monetaryally expressed as two billion euros, is the total amount for the return of all seized assets. As you can see, since other provisions of this law that we are adopting tonight do not have, this amount refers to individuals who seek their property that was once taken away from them by different grounds, so it applies to churches and religious communities. This means that the total quantity of funds is 2 billion euros. It's said, that's why I'm coming back, I'm trying to explain why I'm going back to the general law, that it doesn't turn out that I'm not in the topic, that's the topic, the general law's proposal says -- by the provisions of this law, and that means the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, a total compensation can be made based on the seized property of a former owner. If the question is a Jewish community, it is one former owner, if it is an SPS, one ex, if it is a Catholic church of one former owner. So it can't cross, based on the damages taken from the property of one former owner by all the foundations of Article 1 of this law, the amount of 500,000 euros. In translation, Serbian, it looks like this. If there is no substitute, but there are only returns in the natural form of the same thing, if this return is not possible after one moment, then let's now stick to the SPC as a community that has the largest number of believers in Serbia, so I am giving this example, without having to discriminate against anyone else, at that moment, and from that moment on, the SPC will get from this demand 500,000 euros and a point, as well as any other private owner of two villas on Dedinje that are worth 1 million and a half euros today, or are relatively always worth it because it was an interesting location even before World War II, they will get 500,000, and the SPC will also get for anything that will not be able to return in the natural form of 500,000 euros. Now you're wondering what our problem is with this law. So here's the problem with this law. That's a serious problem. You don't offer a solution to this problem, but it's as easy to get over it as if it's nothing. So, what's the goal of the state? If we had thought seriously about this law or if you had thought seriously about this law, both of you would have tried to fulfill your true purpose. Introductor Boza Djelic said today what should be the goals, formally agree with that, but these goals do not meet here. Of all these goals, only one is fulfilled. Pressure has been made with the European Commission to pass a law with such or similar content. This law will be passed, we will speed up everything, the principle debate under both laws will be carried out on the same day in these rooms, in the House of the National Assembly, there will be discussions on amendments, it will be adopted next Monday, and we have finished the job. Well, it can't do that. That's not the point of doing this job. We have to correct the injustice, it's not disputed. We need to take care of bankruptcy rights and legal certainty in the state of Serbia, it is also not a dispute and we need to take care of the state's power to realise this business, this venture. How the state's gonna take it, it's not a dispute. The Solomonian solution you found by limiting the quantity of funds and inventing that natural restitution should be applied as little as possible, and that the monetary compensation would actually turn into the main form of restitution. So you came up with this solution, which means you had to limit the amount of money, because if you hadn't done that, it would have been one hole that couldn't be covered. It's no way to get rid of this question like that. The way was quite different, to do everything that was possible for the state to return naturally to those who were looking for it, and for the compensation to be money to be an exceptional measure, and then there would be no question of the total volume of funds. The deadlines would be different, and the disputed moments in exchange would be resolved in the extreme line of courts because it is the job of the state, the job is serious and extensive and of course the courts have to engage, and then only the state could say that it did a fair job. The problem with the application of this law is no excuse for its change. What the Restitution Directorate didn't do, it's not because the law wasn't good, because you didn't change anything in this law essentially that would allow this agency to work great. There are no significant changes. The problem was that no director of the Restitution Directorate was appointed, i.e. those who had performed their duty in agreement with the Executive Authority did not apply any of the laws deliberately because a new law was pending to be drawn up that law on the return of property to church communities, which would be linked to the general law. Yes, to some extent it's reasonable to connect, to some extent it's reasonable to have the same organ, but it's not the same situation. I've heard from some politicians in Serbia that churches or religious communities are called maltenes, NGOs. That's absolutely wrong. It's a category of nature. It's not even private property. The kind of property that churches and religious communities possess or which they had before they were taken away, that is, before World War II, had some amazing specificity. That property would come closer to an old concept of folk property than any other. The way churches and religious communities came up with property speaks of it. It's a common feature, it's not a question of the SPS and the characteristics of these communities. I, like other MPs in parliament, came under the hands of a statement of churches and religious communities on this occasion, which in that statement stood up against the adoption of such a proposal for amending and supplementing the law. They asked for the law to remain the way it was. It's okay to change it and improve that law, it's okay at some point to connect it in some part to some general law that's being passed. In the letter that we received, and in the meeting that I, as the head of the group, had with my members of the DSS with representatives of the church and religious communities in this house the other day, where representatives of the SPC and representatives of the Community of the Jewish Municipality who at the same time had the power of all others who did not attend the meeting to speak on their behalf and to give us papers, they showed us that they had proposed, or that they were proposing in their communication with all the institutions that sent these documents, to amend the proposal of your general law that today was on the agenda, precisely because it also meant the definitive realization of the rights of churches and religious communities through the general principles because this law is referred to the other one. This also raises the question of the Union of Jewish municipalities, the return of the seized property and the compensation of the Holocaust, etc. I'll read you just one statement that my colleague Aleksandra Jankovic has not been able to read. It is said this - traditional churches and religious communities in Serbia express support for the fair demands of the Union of Jewish municipalities in Serbia. So all the churches and religious communities that signed. Since the future return law has taken away property and compensation, i.e. The general law, whose working version is in the process of public debate, should contain additional provisions on the return of property taken from Jews during the Holocaust, or regarding the Holocaust in the period from 1941 to 1945, as well as in the period, watch this from 1948 to 1953. During the move of Jews from Serbia to Israel, when property was taken from them under duress and denied Serbian citizenship. How are we going to correct that injustice? Where does that say? One more thing about taking away property from the Jews during World War II, even where the heir to the property was known, was that the property was deprived or even free of charge of the work of another, and then the property was taken away from that person. The question arises – who today is the holder of the right to return of property? The person to whom this property was taken away in 1945, which he obtained by a dazzling job, and it is the property of Jews who were killed or exiled in 1941, or who had to flee, how is that resolved? Did you think about it at this rate that you were doing all this? You're not. This statement, as well as the statement that Aleksandra Jankovic read, which I will not read again because of the rationalization in time, because it makes no sense to listen twice, and since there is no direct transmission and few people will see this, I am talking about this for the record. Something has already entered the record, so there's no reason to repeat it. I'll tell you one more time that this protest against what you're doing has been attended by all the registered traditional churches and religious communities in Serbia, whose signature I have here with all the stamps that have come to us. Here are the SPC, the Roman Catholic Church in Serbia, the Slovak evangelist Church, the Reform Christian Church, the Evangelical Christian Church, the Islamic Community of Serbia and the Jewish community of Serbia. At this point, you have signatures on one piece of paper, which is an unusual phenomenon, all churches and religious communities behind one requirement, which you don't want to meet because it doesn't suit you in your intention, as I said in the earlier opening statement, that you're doing this job. That's a big problem. This isn't a job that can be messed up. This is a serious matter with long-term and far-reaching consequences. It is said: there is no right and no wrong can be done. That's right. The injustice in the case of bad law can be applied in two directions. One is that this injustice should be done to the persons who have acquired some rights in the meantime that cannot be touched, which all reasonable people should accept is so. On the other hand, injustice cannot be done by half - or - a - quarter solving the issue of restitution, thus putting a nail in the coffin of this issue. It can't be done like that. I've said before that on the matter of compensation and for the state, much more favourable natural restitution, and that, at all costs. If we leave it for monetary restitution, believe me, it is foolish and unfair to make a limit that is extremely arbitrary to two billion euros. On the other hand, if you're not making it, and even if you're making it, it doesn't matter, every cent of those euros is peeling skins off the back of citizens, taxpayers who are supposed to pay for a crime that the state has committed towards people and communities since 1945 and beyond. He needs to pay. Instead of being a target, not to limit resources, but not to limit the way of natural restitutions, you have defined yourself as a completely wrong concept, explaining that this concept has not been applied in many countries, and that in some, citing the example of Slovenia, you have not given valid results and that it has been told from there that it would be better if they did not accept it. Instead of learning from other people's mistakes, to see what a mistake was made, what turned out to be a problem, and from our specific circumstances, it was supposed to react in a different way. If the problem is that the urgent adoption of this law is a condition for EU candidacy, then, under one, we should have thought about it before, and under two, partners in the European Commission, if they are at all more partners because of all the events related to Kosovo, we should have stressed that we prefer to take care of the ultimate goal and the essence of the job than its form. It was supposed to be, but it's obviously not what you do. The essence of these changes is to reduce the rights of churches and religious communities in relation to those rights that could have been exercised under the 2006 law, which is unheard of by the aspect of constitutionality. Another argument in favor of that is to replace, i.e. the substitution of assets could be maintained as a legitimate and constitutional basis, the Constitutional Court's decision refuting the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions of this same law that we are talking about when it comes to the replacement of assets. Namely, this law was attacked before the Constitutional Court in the area of asset replacement, demanding that those provisions be declared unconstitutional. Look at the Constitutional Court's decision on this, and you'll understand. We don't have a problem with constitutionality. We don't have a problem with the mode and the way you throw up. We have relative satisfaction about churches and religious communities with a methodology that has been adopted, dissatisfaction by not applying the rules because of the inertness of the state in anticipation of new regulations that it prepares instead of existing ones. It's a key problem here and nothing else. We heard today during the debate and some other elements that may sound politically interesting, but they're not the essence of things. The essence of the matter is a lack of will, in entirely wrong motives handled by the legislators for these amendments and for the adoption and proposal of the general text of the law, rather than those motives being sincere and indeed those who are here verbally declared by the minister during the first debate. That's the essence of the story here. Otherwise, the churches and religious communities here have connected both of these laws in their documents that they gave us and in the papers that they delivered to the competent ministry, which you know, so that you who are from that ministry know very well, where they have suggested that certain provisions of the general law be amended because they are in direct and direct connection with the application of the laws on churches and religious communities. You didn't do it, you ran away from it. The big question is what will happen to these amendments. It's in complete hysteria for this job to be done after that and at any cost, where you go to two extremes altogether. On the one hand, you narrow people's right to a real restitution, increase the volume of claims for cash compensation, then reduce the total quantity of cash compensation funds that Serbian citizens will pay out of their pocket... (President: Time.) ) I end this by introducing, on the other hand, smaller groups in this House of Representatives provisions that equate the occupation forces in the country at that time in our country, members of the occupation forces with other citizens of Serbia. It's a complete scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60752	The word has a folk MP, Miss Budimirovic Jelena.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60753	I would primarily like to express my disdain that such an important topic is being discussed in such an atmosphere and in late hours, when the transfer of the Assembly is delayed. I would like to say that the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the return or restoration of property to churches and religious communities is as important as the law discussed today, i.e. Proposal for a law on the return of seized property and compensation. I believe that by restoring property to churches and religious communities, not only should injustice be corrected against churches and religious communities, but injustice should be corrected against all their believers, or all their members. The property to be returned is intended to achieve human, social and educational objectives. Therefore, all property is intended to achieve the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' rights to express their faith and beliefs. We have heard many times today that the adoption and application of the Law on Restitution should correct the injustice that has been done years ago. However, the question is whether it will be so. It's hard to believe, and my suspicion has been established, and I'll explain why. The Restitution Act, which came into force in 2006, did not apply, and in addition to my claim, the fact that all traditional churches and religious communities in the public stood together by criticising the Government of the Republic of Serbia for not applying the Law. We from the SNS had the opportunity to host a delegation of traditional churches and religious communities, and during that time we hosted His Archdiocese of the Bishop of Irinea, Monsignor of the Archbishop of Belgrade Stanislav Kočevar, Mufti of Belgrade-based Muhamed Jusuf Spahic and the President of the Union of the Jewish municipalities of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Necak. I would like to quote His Archdiocese, who, at that time, criticised the bill, said: "We will talk about the criticisms of this bill on behalf of all". The government of the Republic of Serbia does not apply the Law on Restitution, which is a direct violation of the Constitution. The fact was also established by the Citizens' Protector in his 2010 annual report, which was published on 15 March 2011. By blocking the implementation of the law, the government of the Republic of Serbia, after the deadline for its implementation, proposes amendments and additions to the law, making it clear that the blockade of its execution and exercise would reduce the level of rights acquired to churches and religious communities. Under the law, the deadline for submission of applications to the Restitution Directorate was 30 September 2008. Churches and religious communities, even though they acted on request and submitted their demands in due time, were put in a position to run out of part of their property. By not implementing the replacement restitution and cash compensation, as well as by not naming the new director of the Restitution Directorate, and now by abolishing the replacement restitution and limiting the amount of cash compensation through amendments to the Law, churches and religious communities, it is inappropriate to reduce the amount of return of property. What has also made it difficult to apply the Law is the work of the Public Prosecutor, who has never stood up to the protection of churches and religious communities. I already mentioned the work of the Restitution Directorate, and the minister himself said there was a stalemate in the work of the Restitution Directorate. The term of office of director of the Restitution Directorate expired on 31 December 2010 and no new one has been elected since. Also, I want to read the letter to the Serbian public by then, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic. The letter was sent to the Director of the Restitution Directorate Vladimir Todorovic, 19 August 2008: "In the next period followed by the adoption of a law on denationalisation, which in the public interest would provide for the reduction of the compensation of the former owners of the taken property in relation to the full value of the property, and the compensation in the form of other immovableity would have the character of compensation, not restitution, which would make the necessary identical changes and additions of the Law on the return of property to church and religious communities. Therefore, as the ministry responsible for proposing acts in relation to denationalisation, we say that so far there should not be solutions on monetary compensation, i.e. the return of other relevant assets to churches and religious communities, since it would be in breach of the principles of the future law, and should also apply to other cases which will be regulated by the law on denationalisation." Such procedures show how ready and willing the authorities in Serbia are to provide and protect fundamental human rights. Also, I'd like to make some other shortcomings. By law, the government of the Republic of Serbia is not returning the seized property that has moved into the social property regime, but only the state property. Members of churches and religious communities at a conference held on 21 July 2011 pointed, among other things, to the problem of insisting on the government of the Republic of Serbia's law on privatisation and law on planning and construction, and without safeguards when it comes to church property subject to restitution, which further prevents the return of church property. The legal consequences of the non-application of this law are: violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically Article 3, and with regard to the exercise of the Constitution of guaranteed human rights; violation of the right to property, then Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the consequences of general and public interest are also directly affected. The SNS respects traditional churches and religious communities and we believe that their demands should be respected. Since we've passed the Anti-discrimination Act, I don't know what we'd call this? Namely, there is a statement that my colleagues read, a statement from August 16th, which was supported by all traditional churches and religious communities, referring to the Union of the Jewish municipalities of Serbia. The statement requires that the law should also contain additional provisions relating to the return of property since 1941 and not since 1945. Also, I know that they were told that they would not receive anything they asked for. Isn't that discrimination? I'd like to ask you a question. Since the law on restitution is a very important law for European agendas, I wonder if the opinion of the European Commission on this law is required? I'd like to say that the SNS has submitted a number of amendments and I'm asking you to consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60754	The word has a People's Messenger, Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has always respected and respected all the recognized churches and traditional religious communities and in all the local self-governments where we were and where we are part of the government, representatives of churches and traditional religious communities knew that they could knock on the door of the municipality where the SRS official is and we did a lot everywhere. We believe that this is the right way and that everyone, within their jurisdiction, should do so. I would like to remind, for example, only on the territory of the municipality of Zemun, from the time our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, was the president of the municipality, that we, for example, helped to arrange the Slovak church in Bolevci, took care of the Slovak cemetery in Dobanovci, made the chapel at the Catholic cemetery in Surcin. We helped to build a new church and church home of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Batajnica, then in Busi, then the Virgin Church in Zemun, in Grmovac, too, so if you remember all the tragic events when the mosque was lit in Belgrade, then we also helped as a party as much as we could, we carried some computers, etc. So this as an introduction, I'm saying that there would be no misunderstandings and misreading of our position when it comes to the bill that we're talking about tonight. This morning when Mr Djelic spoke of these laws popularly referred to as restitution, so in a way this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, he said an interesting sentence, saying that he had found inspiration in the countries of the former Yugoslavia for the adoption of these laws. Mr. Djelic, it's good to have you back to ask if perhaps when you proposed this law you had an inspiration in Croatia? Do you know the relationship between the Ustasha-Croatian regime and the people who live there towards Serb sanctities? Do you, like the Government, talk to Jadranka Kosor, when Tadic promises her godmothership, etc., do you ever discuss the problems of Serbs living in Croatia? Do you ever talk, and now I apologize, for going back to that previous law with only one sentence, do you ever discuss the status of the Serbs who have been expelled from their hearths from the Serbian province? Do you ever talk about their job, pension, do you talk about housing rights? Of course, you do not deal with what you should do, neither you as a government nor a resolute minister, in which case you are not, the minister of the diaspora. Do you know Mr. Djelic, do you read at least in the paper, if you do not want to know as Deputy Prime Minister that a church, an old church in Zadar and a church room next to that church in the Serbian Orthodox Church, has been transformed into a public toilet? Do you know what happened to the church in Trpinja, the Serbian Orthodox Church in Trpinja a few days ago? How were those living there, who are apparently followers of the Ustasha regime? Mr. Djelic, it is nice that we respect everything, and we should respect it, but the state and you, as a representative, Deputy Prime Minister and a representative of Tadic's regime, should take a little account and how others treat us. It is the least that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect from you first. When it comes to this law we're discussing tonight, which you're proposing, I must tell you that this is completely unnecessary. The law on the return of property to churches and religious communities was passed in 2006. That's what you said, and that's what it says in the explanation, you even said that 40% of the land taken away by the end of 2010, based on that law was returned to the churches, 15% of the deposed objects, too, and now really that man asks you the question what's the problem? So you have the law, you could have implemented it, why you didn't implement it, what's interesting when you were finishing, you gave the final word to the previous law, so you touched this one, and we were really shocked when you said that the basic problem was that the Restitution Directorate didn't function, so you're going to form a restitution agency because the staff is leaving the Directorate. Is that the way it works, I heard the other day that a coffee cook in the government quit and now I expect you to disband the government, leave the staff? Are you aware of what you're saying and what you're doing? Someone in the Directorate doesn't work directly for you, and you're changing the Directorate into an agency. What were they doing from the Staff Department? That's what you need to tell us. And let's see why they're coming to the agency. What kind of pay do you plan at the agency? You're still planning on a lot more people than there were in the Directorate. It's like they're doing a bigger and more important job, first of all, this is a job, if you're already doing it by the state. But, of course, you follow every law with one agency. Whenever I see an agency proposal like this and I think we're going to lose one of the ministers, now Minister Milan Markovic is going to get very angry. You know, he was ten days ago, using all the arguments of the Radical Party in one interview, in one media, saying that agencies should be abolished, that agencies are para-state authorities, that agencies are doing the work that the ministries are supposed to do, that agencies have much higher salaries than in the ministries, that people from the ministries are going to the agencies, etc. So these are all the arguments with which we from the Serbian Radical Party have long claimed all of this and so don't mind Milan Markovic, you can put the government in crisis. Just one example and one member here will comment and quote to show you how completely pointless it is to pass this law. This is your Article 5 relating to Article 16. Article 16 reads – If the property which is returned under this law cannot be returned by the church, that is, the religious community has the right to cash in government bonds, issued for that purpose, or in cash if the payer is a natural or legal person. You are changing it now and saying – If the immovableity which is the subject is returned under this law cannot return the church, or the religious community has the right to compensation in the form of the state bonds of the Republic of Serbia, or in money in accordance with the general law governing the return of the seized property and compensation. So you just changed the order of words. Even so, you added "and according to this law", as you called it a general law governing the return of the seized property and the compensation, and that is, of course, entirely excessive, since it stands in that general law. For the sake of illustration, I only cited this to let you know that this was a completely unnecessary job, but that you did it because it was one of the domestic tasks, which you obviously value, and what you should be doing in the interest of Serbian citizens, you don't care. In this context, Mr Djelic, let's talk a little bit about the churches of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija. Before that, I'll remind you that this basic law that was passed at the time of Kostunica's government and which you obviously accept with these minor changes, that he has those basic Falinka that he has and this restitution law and that we talked about today. This is where you, the ones before, and you've now confirmed, plotted some date, some year since the property came back. Of course, all the reasons we talked about when we talked about that previous law are absolutely for this law. I will quote to you a few views from the textbook "Church Law" written by Dimso Peric, who was a priest and also a doctor of law science, a professor at the Faculty of Law and his textbook is still being taught today by the students of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Dimso Peric says, therefore, in "Church Law" – in the Kingdom of Serbia, church property is under the supervision of the minister of education and church works. I want to draw your attention, if you were returning church property, to ask you why you haven't done this since the time of King Alexander who took away much more property from the church than the communists did since World War II that you covered by this law. After World War I, I also quote Dimsu Peric and Church Law, agrarian reform left a wasteland on church property. All the monasteries were declared large possessions and came under the influence of agrarian reform. You don't return it, of course. Immediately after World War I, all the land properties of the SPC came under the influence of agrarian reform. Many land properties that were taken from the church were not transferred to new users, so the SPC paid taxes for years and for the payment of debts had to raise a loan from Serbian folk funds and from the State mortgage bank, so it owed two million dinars. Now I ask you, Mr. Djelic, have you corrected this historic injustice? So, when you answered our objections under that previous law, you didn't answer any key questions, you didn't give an argument against any of our arguments. Who is it that can say the year that and that is the intersection for passing a law, especially retroactive? Who is this power of God? Force of 126. So, let's get back to the KIM situation, otherwise both this and that previous law will not apply to KIM. When we ask that Parliament's first session of the Second Regular Session, meaning the first Tuesday of October, we hold in Kosovo Mitrovica and discuss the state of KIM, in the context of the declaration that was made in parliament on July 31st, we get today in the absence of the President of Parliament, to which we addressed the request, the response from Mrs Gordana Comic that she informs us that we have not called on the right member of the Rules of Procedure, etc., we do not have an act to be discussed. So you're looking for a formality, and you're not going to turn to the essence, and that's usually your relationship to society and all the spheres of social life. This is also your relationship with this law on the return of property to churches and religious communities. You're going to fill out the form, and you're not essentially gonna finish the job, which is done, it's done. Did you, and did not include this law, here's another piece of information on March 6th 1945, the Pop government of Zecevic made a decision to ban the return of Serbs to KIM, on their properties that were usurped by the Albanian raptors, and also banned the return of church property, which was also usurped by the Cypriots from Albania. This is the answer to the question, Mr. Djelic, how does that happen next to the SPC or the KIM monastery next to them is a property, property, some raptor. Why didn't it occur to you to correct this historic injustice while you were correcting historical injustices? No, of course not. As you are not interested in the fact that France, it was in June, at the end of June, there was a French initiative in UNESCO that Serbian cultural heritage at KIM was renamed Kosovo. There was a reaction from Vuk Jeremic, but the rest of you didn't think it was something interesting. I will also remind you now that there are about 1,300 churches, Serbian Orthodox monasteries and other objects, localities and spatial continents that represent the cultural heritage of the Serbian people, which is estimated at the Ministry of KIM of the Serbian Government. This Christian heritage has always been threatened, destroyed, but also restored. Status. Over the last decade, about 150 churches have been destroyed, damaged and defiled, Mr. Djelic, the monastery and other church facilities. Among them, 61 have the status of cultural monuments, 18 of which are of exceptional importance. In a pogrom that took place on 17 and 18 March 2004, you remember that tragedy, 19 cultural monuments were destroyed, six in the first and 13 in the third category. So it's about cultural and religious heritage of the greatest importance. She's not covered by this law, Mr. Djelic. In the last 10 years, more than 10,000 icons, ecclesiastical and religious items have been destroyed and stolen at the same time. He can't resist even the desecration of the dead's graves. We know that, every suffocating woman can be escorted into the media, every Suffocation, those people who go to light the candle-dead members of the family must first raise broken monuments. Thus, 5261 tombstones were destroyed and damaged, at 256 Serbian Orthodox cemeterys, in more than fifty cemeterys there is not one whole monument, Mr Djelic. We also remind you that cultural goods, which due to their exceptional value, have been classified on the UNESCO World Heritage List and have been found on this list for the first time since 2004 by the High Decani monastery. Since 2006 the list includes the monasteries of the Pecka Patriarchy, Gracanica and the Church of the Mothers of the Left Prizren. UNESCO placed the extra-series of culture in Kosovo and Metohija called medieval monuments in Kosovo on a special list of world heritage on July 13th 2006. But Mr. Djelic's attempt to declare this heritage of exceptional importance to Kosovo is only temporarily stopped, that's also the data we have, and they say it only goes away from about a year, probably until something else is done, while Mr. Stefanovic signs something more devastating than this so far for the Serbian people, then the Serbian Orthodox churches, i.e. the SPC facilities in Kosovo and Metohija, which you want this law to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60756	Thank you. Whether they want a word from any other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups. No, I don't. ) We move to part of the session in order of the Members of the People's Parliaments, and according to the application for a word in principle in the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities. The word has Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, as the first on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60757	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, in 2006, the government of Vojislav Kostunica passed the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, which represented the first law of that kind, which had a serious intention of returning what was taken away from the churches and religious communities, to return and to begin the reverse process for the first time, from the abduction of its own citizens. The law has been in place for four years and has shown all its capacities, because despite instructions from this government represented today by Mr Djelic, the law has managed to return about 40% of the land and about 15% of the buildings taken away, in natural form, to churches and religious communities. It is interesting that when it was found out that the government was preparing a bill of this law that today is ahead of us of all religious communities and all traditional churches in Serbia demanded that this law not be changed. They supported it as a very fair law and demanded that it become a model of the general law on restitution, which shows how good this law is and how much changes you made in it have made worse this law, or completely ruined it. It's interesting that when you read the explanation, and I like to read the explanation, because the government is sublimely saying a lot of things. It is interesting that in this explanation that is before us and which somehow does not fit those figures and percentages that Mr Djelic here said. He said that the Orthodox Church was returned 45% of the taken land, that the Roman Catholic Church was returned 12%, we learned from Mr. Hajdarevic that the Islamic community had not been returned to anything and that it was all on average 40%. I'm not a mathematician, but I can add these numbers to three, so the average can't be 40%. The other thing that's interesting about this argument is why the law is changing. One of the reasons why the law is changing, and the proposer says it very openly, is that the 2006 law is based on traditional legal principles. First of all, on the principle that the right of property is an absolute and inalienable right that no one can be deprived without a valid legal basis and without just compensation. This is incredibly interesting. I must ask a question to Mr Djelic, who represents the Government and who, on behalf of the Government, talks most often with his European friends. What they tell you when they read this. Is this traditional, conservative and backward for them too? I don't think so. This is a fundamental legal principle in all democratic countries. What's interesting is what I have to conclude, for this government, it's unacceptable to much of what in the democratic world is a fundamental principle. Here's an example. It is this 2006 law, which I mention, the Law on the Restitution of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, which in practice has been on ice for a long time thanks to this government, which has envisioned three models of return of property. The first return on property model is the return of exactly the property that was taken away. The second model is where this first one is not possible. Replacement of the seized property of other good so-called. It's a substitution. This is where I have to do the dyspression. Interestingly, the churches and religious communities did not complain about the 2006 law. They didn't complain or the citizens that they might be able to, it's interesting that in this term, the government may have complained to the Constitutional Court and asked for the constitutionality of this law, this particular member I'm talking about, this particular substitute taken away from other goods and from the Constitutional Court to confirm that this is a full constitutional category, although both of these models are not possible, there is a third model, and this is a market compensation, not compensation, compensation is a political category, and here is a market compensation, so compensation in money is as much as it is worth on the market. When we look at the law, or amendments and additions to the law, we see an interesting thing, we're left out of just the substitution, exactly why you've kept the law on ice, exactly why you asked for constitutionality and administration checks, what could have led to 65% of the land that was taken from churches and religious communities, then back here in 1945, in natural form. That shows the real motive why this law was passed. This law is for the sake of saying the EU, yes, we have the law and we, like other countries, have done this, and in fact do not return anything to churches and religious communities and have had it, not by taking it, but by leaving it to the citizens, by buying it for themselves, that families in some earlier times that have no heirs have left their property to the church, therefore, the people's property, that means that you want to alienate that property every step further, the property is further away from the churches and religious communities to which it is intended. In place when we look at it honestly, this government has never implemented the 2006 law, see the report by citizens' protectors, Mr Jankovic, the 2010 report, he openly notes. The government boycotted laws that existed regularly. It's very important to say. What are all the ways in which this blockade was achieved? Very simply, firstly, the term of director of the Restitution Directorate expired on December 31st last year, nine months, the new director was not appointed. I know you're slower, more inert and everything, but here it shows that there's some other intention. The deadlines for the adoption of the solution referred to in Article 31 were then exceeded. The law on the restitution of property to churches and religious communities, and according to the requirements that have been filed in good time, because six months has been the deadline for these solutions to be made, and 3,059 requires you two years, since 2009, since March of 2009, and no solution can be issued. Then, the government did not allow any financial compensation or replacement of restitution to be applied. It's interesting to say that the government in the budget didn't even provide funds for all of this to be done because it had no intention of returning the property. Furthermore, you have brought here in this House laws, let's say the Law on Planning and Construction, which was passed without a protection standard that applied to the property of owners, real owners, citizens, then churches and religious communities, as well as the debt, and every time you distanced the right owners from your own property. I have to ask Mr Djelic one more thing, since he is here and he could explain it briefly and clearly, his statements recently when he spoke about these laws were really disturbing the public, because he was talking about Serbia falling, or threatening Serbia to collapse if the property was taken away. The property has not been returned, Serbia is collapsed, but not because of it, but because it has a government like this that breaks part by piece of territory, resembling some of its personal interests, because of a few votes clumping part by part of Serbia's territory, promoting European values that oppose everything that is morally and normally in this Serbia. I also have to comment on another matter relating to the Union of Jewish municipalities, and my colleagues have been saying that there was a public statement of churches and religious communities, and what has to be said about the Union of Jewish municipalities of Serbia, they are also asking that the law also contains provisions concerning the return of the property of those Jews that were seized during the Holocaust in the period from 1941 to 1945, and they are also asking that this return period apply to the period from 1948 to 1953, because then the state of Yugoslavia asked that those citizens of Jewish nationalities who went to Israel must return citizenship and give up property. This someone has to answer that, because I think it's very important to talk about it. What I also want to conclude, the law will be a dead letter on paper, it's very nice, the marketing story is very mature, but those who hope this law will bring back the property they've been taken from them, they're wrong. I guess they learned from this government that everything's nice just on the diary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60758	The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60759	Before I say anything about the law, I suppose we'd have a consensus on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, to deny the possibility for ministers to talk for an hour and 20 minutes about one law and a recommendation to you from the ruling majority, that the Rules of Procedure be changed as soon as possible, and now a few words and sentences about the law itself. So, we've been talking all day about the Property Return Act. It's two laws, restitution laws. By this afternoon, we talked about a law that talks about the return of Serbian citizens to property, and this afternoon we're talking about, in these late hours, I'd say, the Law on the return of property to church and religious communities. In that sense, when it comes to this law, DSS MPs also had a meeting, as my esteemed colleague Mr Milos Aligrudic said, with representatives of the church and religious communities. The representatives of the SPC and the Jewish municipalities were present and we reached one conclusion, in fact we also knew that the law that was passed in 2006 in the first government of Vojislav Kostunica and that much better, more humane, fairer than this amendment and the addition of the law that you are proposing today, Mr Minister. One fundamental question arises why is this law changing right now? We all agreed that the Restitution Act, the return of property to Serbian citizens, should be passed, but why are we changing this law on the return of property to church? Is that why we're getting closer to the election campaign or something else, we'll see about that. So, I must say, Mr. Minister, that you are a representative of a socially responsible government, but a government that does not respect the laws is obstructing the laws. In addition to this, it also says that you have not appointed a director of the Restitution Directorate for nine months. Of course, in this way you tried to obstruct the work of that directorate that had already completed solutions and thus could return certain property to the church and the religious communities. We must also say that this law has been declared by the Constitutional Court who said that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which you certainly did not respect, but that you have entered into a project to change this law. Serbia's property situation is not so poor that it could not return all these assets, it amounts to about 5% of Serbia's total assets. It is a return to the church, but we expect the citizens to return it in the next period, and we'll see how you do it. The purpose of the adoption of this law, as you say, is to correct historical injustice against citizens and churches and religious communities because in one unnatural way their property was taken away from them, but you know well how this property, especially church, has been acquired through the centuries - in two ways, which is by the legacy of certain areas of property and donations of citizens, i.e. People. Namely, I will remind you that Arsenija Charnojevic himself bought land for the church and for the citizens of Serbia at the time of the seoba, which is the beginning of the 18th century, so many monasteries bought a property in Kosovo, however, this law does not talk about resolving that part of Serbia that we will return and recover property to both monasteries and churches located in Kosovo. The aim of this law, as you say, is a fair treatment for those who have been taken away from their property. I would ask you how you would repay the property to the Jewish communities and descendants of certain people, Jews whose property was taken from them right from 1941 to 1945, when the Germans kidnapped them, and then communist acts, and that communist government took all that property itself? How will you repay that property to the Jewish community? There are differences between these two laws, the one from 2006, brought by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the one you propose. For the sake of the public, we need to expose here. Namely, that's two fundamental things. It's a natural substitution or a people known as a replacement, and it's a change in the Directorate at the Restitution Agency. When it comes to natural substitution, you are offering a different solution here through this law, offering state bonds worth up to 500,000 euros, but this one land is worth a lot more, and in this sense I ask you how will you repay if some land belonging to a church or maybe one of the tycoon's ruling majority assigns that land, what will happen to that land if the price is much higher? What will the government do with such land? Another thing, one new body is being created, it's a restitution agency. We're changing the restitution directorate, which, as we said, didn't have a director for almost nine months and didn't work. So this agency, in its explanation, says that there will be much more workers than this directorate has and that much more resources are needed to work this agency. You know very well that we have just passed a law on the reduction of civil servants in this room. With this agency, we increase bureaucracy and resources in the budget to fund the agency itself. The law, according to us, needs to be withdrawn from the Assembly procedure. We already have one law, as we said, which is a quality, which was passed in 2006. We reacted to the amendments just in case. We have a total of 16 amendments to this law. The concept is completely different. If you do not decide to withdraw this law, then you would do well to accept this concept of our amendments. In the end, what I'm trying to say is that the goal didn't justify the means. Legal entities will not be compensated, but the church country will be reduced value. Many churches and religious communities complain to many European institutions and are expected to reach Strasbourg as well. Minister, I expect you to reconsider your position, to withdraw your law, because in this way you are in fact reducing not only church property but also people's property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60760	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, it is obvious that it is a law that can be defined conditionally as following a law that we discussed in the afternoon debate and our constructive objections are in this context because we believe that, regardless of what good intentions are in place here, the impression that it is a pre-election law, a law that follows this law against which we are in general, and this shows our amendment to every member of this law that we are now discussing. We're also against this law in principle. In the voting day, we will plead against, because we believe that RS as a single country, you wrote this in the reasoning of the law, which is in transition, we do not know from that explanation when it began, when the transition will end, because a country that is not able without major negative consequences in economic terms to implement this plan of restitution and issuing state bonds. Our remarks are similar to that of the previous law, and yet again we express surprise, astonishment as it is possible that in a country that allegedly has a one-currency system, i.e. in a country that has an official currency of dinar, that bonds of state are nominated in euro. It's just incomprehensible. You haven't given me any answer in your closing statement about the previous law. This remark stands, too, for this law. As for this law, as well as in the previous law, there is another uncertainty and another unreal plan, so I would define it at a time when the external debt of the RS has reached 23 billion euros. The question arises where will these two billion euros be created? The only logical answer for this is that there will be a new borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, and we are expressing to the public Serbia concerned that debt will be re-engaged, for example, by banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So first of all, it is a law that will be harmful to both the economic and legal aspects of the political and any other system of the Republic of Serbia. What are we saying? Again, it's a kind of introduction of legal confusion, legal uncertainty, because as we can see, unlike the previous law, we have laws here from 2006, and you're saying for yourself that it's been implemented, successfully, unsuccessfully, it's less expressed here in percentages, and we think that this is another proof that it's a pre-election law. Otherwise, try to convince us that there is a document, a regulation, a manual or part of the EU's founding contracts, which tell you that this type of restitution should be applied. We responsibly claim that this does not exist and we suspect that it is a kind of improvisation involving Mr. Deger. Why is that happening? We're not going to get into these calculations, whether it's some joint agreement on a pre-election campaign, whether it reminds us of free action, whether it reminds us of "Fiat", but it's other topics, but in any case, it's already known manners. On the other hand, as in the previous law we discussed today, we see here that there will be an increase in state bureaucracy. How is it possible, if, as a government, as the ruling majority, you have declared the principle above principles, that there is no more increase in bureaucracy, but rather, in agreement with the IMF, we have listened so many times by the ruling coalition, that there will be savings, that there will be a reduction in bureaucracy? Therefore, this law does not comply with your parolees. As far as evidence is concerned, the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law, similar to that of the previous law, states that the Restitution Directorate, which is in fact one of the basic reasons for the harmonisation and adoption of this law, is, I quote, a significantly larger and more human beings in order to implement the law, etc. My particular question – how can it be possible, despite all the strategies and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all so-called. With the well-intentioned IMF and the EU, you increase the number of civil servants in such a difficult economic situation? That's completely unclear, like what we've said about the increase in external debt? This clearly tells us that it is a kind of populism, which does not say it openly, and a kind of law that will hardly apply in practice. Also, as well as my esteemed colleagues from the SRS, I am asking you here as the most responsible person, the most responsible official of these laws, how this law will apply to KIM. We've provided information that it's 1,300 church facilities, monasteries, and it's not clear here from the explanation, and we've been carefully reading an explanation about all the members of the law, we don't see any concrete solution, and we're asking you to tell us in your closing statement, how are you going to solve this problem? You'll admit it's one problem that's more than actual and it's looking for one concrete answer. In this sense, there are problems that my colleagues from the SRS have also brought to UNESCO, but it is a broader topic that shows that it is about the acquisition of Serbian and church heritage to KIM. To conclude, it's a law that's inapplicable, a law that has elements of populism, as well as the previous one we talked about. What is most important from the economic point of view, and you will admit that it is more than an important issue, about a law that can bring about and will certainly lead to the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia – whether it will be worth two billion euros, whether it will be more, the time will show. We're certainly causing a kind of suspicion that it's a useful law. On the contrary, we believe that it is very harmful to the economic, political and any other interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60762	Seven minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by the MP Vladan Jeremic. After him, Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60763	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it opened in the early 1990s in one way the process of denationalisation in Serbia, the state obviously did not have a strategy to return the property, i.e. that formal strategy. I have the impression that the whole story today is exclusively and only in the context of the fourth place on the list of those 10 EU requirements Serbia should meet during the year, if it wants to qualify for membership in the organisation. Surely there was a belief, or reason to believe that after many unfulfilled promises, the government would finally begin the process of restitution to do the right thing. However, in the old custom, one such legal solution is delivered to Parliament within that last period before the European Commission's decision. You could hear that from all the arguments that have been discussed so far, that the only goal is to satisfy that form and in some way, one of these obligations is to be checked out. However, in line with the government's workings manner, it is obvious that "solving" one of these problems is causing one greater and longer-term. That's exactly the case with the law we're talking about today. This is a potentially unfair legal solution that could cause the dissatisfaction of all those involved in this story. In doing so, we are witnessing that state representatives are talking about unrealistic demands from stakeholders, warning that natural restitution is not always possible, that such an attempt to correct injustice would lead to new injustices, etc. On the other hand, there are also those who represent and that theory, that in some way justice would lose the battle because of the interests of parties, tycoons, criminals who would certainly not be suited to natural restitution, because it would deny important sources of further wealth. The truth of the will, the return of property that has been taken away without compensation, held after World War II, is one truly complex issue in all transition countries. In addition, they all started privatising their economies to open the process of denationalisation. In some of these countries, such as Germany and Slovenia, this is over, but in the Republic of Serbia, again, I say, by some old good or bad rule, the process and the property transition within which what we are talking about today flows with many difficulties. Such a slowdown of the process can also be attributed to a lack of political will. The difficulties that exist can be seen from this legal system aspect and of course economic financial nature. You will all agree, there is no legal environment in our legislation, in unreformed institutions. Of course, there is also this justification for the fear of this financial aspect. As far as this economic work is concerned, this job is certainly important in terms of restoring confidence in private property. However, in countries that are less rich, such as Serbia, this can be reflected on the market, so to speak, in the natural context, i.e. in the real estate and goods market. There is one real possibility so-called. Hit the market and search. This could have negative consequences for the country's macro-economic stability in general. That social aspect which primarily refers to the risk of increasing inequality, as a certain reduction of the necessary resources for all these trasnfers that will certainly arise from this job. So it's a process, a problem, or a question which, of course, touches the deep roots of both the economic and the legal system, because it practically triggers that one redistribution and economic and social power. What the problem is, is that the EU Council's decision on the principles, priorities and conditions of the European partnership with Serbia, as of 18 February 2008, would be based on these political criteria, as one of the priorities and resolving the issue of taken property after World War II, and this job should be based on non-compliance with the principles of justice and human rights, etc. However, the special aspect in this story tonight is certainly the decision of the April 2011 Constitutional Court of Serbia, which did not repeal the 2006 Law on the restitution of church property, and this was in fact a recommendation for the new law to contain that natural restitution. Otherwise, a Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities was adopted in Serbia in 2006, and the law allowed only state and legal persons, but not individuals, or individuals, to seek the restitution of religious communities' assets. It is expected that the concept of this law, which is obviously also based on these same principles, as well as the Law on the return of property to churches and other religious communities, which otherwise has been returned to the SPC by about 40% of the kidnapped property, will be based on the principle of priority of natural restitution, protection of subsequent rights, the principle of autonomy of will between the debtors and users and the principle of respect for the person of general interest, which states that this compensation must respect the dignity of the former owner, and that it is certainly the ultimate result of all this in the overall scope of being as acceptable to the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The 2006 law, when passed, basically removed only part of the problem, and the return of the seized property could certainly have been resolved much earlier, that is, when the Law on the Restitution of Church Property was adopted. I will just remind myself that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Return Act in early 1991 on the return of SPC supplies, legislation, residential buildings and building land. All six members were and the law was to mark the start of a restitution of church property in Serbia. But then the president refused to sign it because he predicted a return of building land that could not be private property. Those reasons that explain why church property is returned under a special law are valid, if I may say so, for at least one group of owners. Some of these arguments are also that churches had a neat list of confiscated assets, as well as that church property was generally good. The fact is, you can say the same about the employees. However, the property was not returned to them, although the debtors even have more precise lists of property than churches, but apparently they do not have such social power as churches, so they did not find themselves in the law. Finally, to narrow this down, it must be noted that at least this church property was easier to return, because it consists mainly of land, forests and most often remained in the form in which it was taken away, it was not about some factories etc. In which investment was invested, where the purposes were changed, so that such return of property could have gone on without any major problems. However, it is obvious that if it is not possible to apply the same model that applied to all other citizens, that is, if another model is applied, that means that this law on the return of property to churches and religious communities will not survive in Serbia's legal system, because it would not have its right to purpose. Something more extensive will be said when we talk about it through the amendments we have submitted. But all in all, one people's conclusion is that it seems to me that neither God will be able to help you when it comes to such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60764	Nine minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60765	Mr. Djelic, in the course of my address, or at the beginning of my address, I will say something about the financial effects, that is, the financial resources you provide for the implementation of this law. You, in the light of these financial resources that are necessary for the implementation of amendments and additions to this law, are predicting that financial resources will be needed for the implementation of it, in particular for the payment of compensation to churches and religious communities, both in monetary and state bonds, which will be nominated in euro. The question arises – what is the amount of these funds that will be specifically allocated to churches and religious communities? In your own explanation of this, you say that according to old law, churches have so far returned about 40% of the property and about 15% of the facilities. Wasn't it most normal, Mr. Djelic, that you explained to this house a little more comprehensively, if you hadn't already written that in the light of the law and informed this house, what is the amount of financial resources expected to be subdued for the implementation of this law, when it comes to churches? So what is the financial value and what are the priorities for doing this? You are predicting in Article 3 – if the property cannot be returned to a whole, it is possible to partially return by paying compensation in a different way. I ask you – does this provision mean and is it foreseen because the natural restitution has ended or has the bar ended in the predominantly part? Does this mean that in order to meet the remaining 60%, the sole payment of compensation, in cash or in bonds, as you foresee in Article 5 of this bill, where you say – if the immovableity which is subject to return under this law cannot be returned, the church, or the religious community, has the right to compensation in the form of government bonds or in money? It would be fair, Mr. Djelic, when Serbia's debt exceeds 23 billion euros to come up with precise financial data, given that we've heard it several times before, and here I repeat, that only new responsibilities are expected here, because you yourself say it will be from the budget, and we know that you are filling the budget. You were the finance minister, Mr. Djelic, and it must have been easy for you to provide us with a little more precise financial information about what I was talking about. However, how can someone believe, or how does the SRS believe in your honesty and your government's honesty, in the end, when you openly say that these bonds will be nominated in euros, and that this will be because you are doing it under the pressure of former owners? You're still saying that the money in Serbia, that's your forecast, is probably going to be a money asset for a long time, so you're defining that it's going to be in the next 20 or 25 years. I'm sorry, Mr. Djelic, but what you're saying as a representative of the government, as vice president of the current government, is absolutely inadmissible. Not to say that it is against the constitution and against the law that you determine how long the dinar will be a means of payment in Serbia. It's something that's simply inadmissible. Furthermore, how do you intend to implement these amendments and additions to the Law that is on the agenda tonight, in such an unsettled and unsettled disaster? In a catastrus where many things are unknown, in a catastrophe where there is absolutely no way to determine with certainty what it is? It is simply a cruel reality of today's Serbia and these are some things that you had to do before. Here's an example of the inapplicability of this law. Do you know, Mr. Djelic, where the Devich monastery is? Do you know that the two thousand acres that once belonged to this monastery are now in Shyptarian possession? And you know it. And do you know that most of the monastery's assets, Mr. Djelic, have been taken by the Shipari since 2000, when you and yours were in power? What did you do about it? What are your specific actions so far, just about this monastery? Not to tell you that thousands and thousands of acres of KIM have been kidnapped by the Manastarian lands by the Shiptars. Have you ever asked that question? If you asked, who did you ask that question to? Do you know that many churches on KIM in a catastrian opera are signed up as mosques? Do you know that the assembly temple of the Virgin Mary of the Left in Prizren has been declared as a Shandria Leviska or a juma mosque for many years? Are you familiar with that data? These are all the things you should have solved instead of this law. It's priority stuff for this country. It means nothing to you, Mr. Djelic, when the Russian Orthodox Church tells you: "The situation surrounding the ancient temple of the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška in Prizren is against the law of building a road along the monastery of Zocist and the Serbian cemetery and a number of other events surrounding the sanctity of the Serbian Orthodox Church in KIM, they question the ability of international forces to protect Serbia's cultural wealth effectively in the province. "This warning from the Russian Orthodox Church means nothing to you and your government. You didn't raise your voice, Mr. Djelic, even when the US in Pristina built their entire embassy complex next to the Serbian cemetery, literally on Serbian costumes, they built an entire complex of their embassy and no one said a word by Serbian officials. It's really something that's inappropriate in political life. It didn't bother you. You didn't condemn it because you shouldn't have condemned it, you shouldn't have said it, let alone react when the Cypriots hijack the property of Serbian Orthodox monasteries at KIM. One of your governments, Mr. Djelic, was the promoter of the idea that the international team was taking care of the protection of Serbian cultural heritage at KIM. It was them, to remind you, that today allegedly protects these Edwards, their representative, their leader. Are these justos who former communists protect in this way? And that's something that's dangerous, that the international community takes care of Serbian cultural heritage. That's what you should've done before, instead of this law and this law. Who can ask a nation to take care of his cultural heritage to a stranger, and is that normal? Is there an example like that somewhere in the world? There isn't. The Serbian people and the SPC have protected, created, preserved, nurtured through centuries. Who today and with what explanation can impose on the Serbian people and the SPC that someone else looks after the heritage of the SPC, take care of the SPC monasteries, set up some buffer of dawn outside the monastery, which will in fact represent only one filter so as not to bring the Serb people closer together and gathering in Serbian temples. The fight for the return of kidnapped land and kidnapped Serb shrines to KIM was in fact your primary priority. I can tell you that the SRS has always been a party that really worked really hard and helped the SPC. The SRS returned the Parish House to the Church of the Holy Trinity in Zemun, as well as the Parish House of the Holy Mothers in Zemun, with several hundred squares, and many other actions. Have you ever, Mr. Djelic, asked for the respect of Resolution 1244, when it comes to Serbian shrines, Serbian Orthodox churches, monasteries and their property on KIM. Do you know what Resolution 1244 predicts in this regard? She says, "The agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian military and police personnel will be allowed to return to Kosovo for the sake of it," she further lists the reasons and says -- maintaining presence at Serbian cultural heritage sites. That's what Resolution 1244 says. Have you ever asked them to? If you really wanted to take care of the Serbian cultural heritage at KIM, there were many more pressing jobs than what you suggest to the Serbian Parliament. You simply don't care about such things, don't worry about the state of Serbia, don't worry about the Serbian cultural heritage and about the Serbian monasteries at KIM, such laws as you are applying to the Serbian Parliament. Believe me, the SRS has no idea that we're complicit in this. It is your duty to protect and preserve all Serb sanctities, wherever they are, especially at KIM. You took that responsibility by starting to exercise power. And you have a foothold in Resolution 1244. Because on their estates, which, unfortunately, are largely in the hands of Shipara, are the bones of many Serbian martyrs. The church port in Pasjaca near Gjilan, for example, buried amongst the remains of Bosilka Rajcic, whom the scepters, according to the late Patriarch Paul, cut her to pieces before the end of the Turkish rule, because she did not want to go down, so they cut her on the road and the Serbs barely pulled her out of her pasture jaws and buried her in the port of this church. It is your duty, among other things, to take care of all such things. You are obliged to guard the Serb sanctity and return the kidnapping. It was a priority, not passing laws like this. We've seen here that neither the churches nor the religious communities are for this law. I'm not going in now, which is why they're not. The one you're supposed to return to the extent and the way you predict it here, they don't want it that way, and you insist on it exactly the way you want it. These goals and motives that you want them to do and why you're stretching it around here, they're really not a clean shot at all. About your motives, I'm a little bit more sure since he's an expert on this he'll tell you a little later Mr. Krasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60766	Sixteen minutes used by the MP's group. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60767	Fellow Serbian Radical Party MPs have pointed to certain shortcomings in the proposed law, and on the other hand, have pointed to the fact that there are real opportunities for this law to be applied in practice. What I would like to say first is that this bill does not contain compliance with European Union regulations, although you are calling on the European Union, given that we have no recent law in the European Union, where the European Union explicitly requires that Serbia comply with its laws with the European Union. This could only exist when Serbia becomes a member of the European Union. In addition, you can't see from this table, a translation of the European Union's choice of law into Serbian has not been made. No translation of the text of the law into some official language of the European Union has been made. It's according to those rules as the government considers it to be. No consultant has been used, and in laws like this, although the European Union must be asked, there must be an opinion from a consultant. The Serbian Radical Party considers that the measures to pass this bill are hasty, as it does not meet the traditional values of a law in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have asked you a question, but we expect your answer as well. Whether the provisions of this law will also apply to the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, given Resolution 1244, that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, so I ask you in this direction to give us an answer. If the immovableity of the Catholic Church is returned, will the immovableity taken from the Serbian Orthodox Church, as Mrs. Verica Radet said, not repeat, of the government's relationship with the state be seen as being towards the Serbian Orthodox Church, according to the Serbian people, which the government would have to bear in mind and finally start to represent the interests of Serbs and on the territory, which their country had to leave under the terror and Ustasha knife of the Republika Srpska Krajina. When will the Vatican, Mr. Minister, return the looted gold from World War II to Serbia? Did Mr. Minister of the Czech Republic return the property and pay the damages to the Germans? Five million were expelled, and they didn't even get a yellow bank. What is to expect is the mood of our citizens, which is the question of Mr. Minister, when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although selectively access through the agency, propose to pass laws on the annulment of robbery privatisation? You have learned about this, you have seen how many hundreds of agencies have broken their contracts and you have seen if justice and justice are to be done in this direction, and in the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, it should be the law to correct that justice, that is, injustice. That should still be one of the priorities in the country. Under the Law on Agricultural Reform and Colonisation, certain legal entities of religious communities were left with an agrarian maximum of 10 hectares of farmed land. Religious institutions of greater importance, or declared cultural and historical monuments, have been left with an agrarian maximum of 30 hectares of farmland and 30 hectares of forest. By law on the nationalisation of rental buildings and building land, religious communities were left in ownership and buildings and rooms for religious work, for the education of priests, churches, temples, worship, independent monasteries, seminaries, schools for the preservation of priests, parishal, episcopic and other courts. Mr. Minister, the Serbian Radical Party believes this should not have been the authority of the agency you plan to establish. This had to be in the jurisdiction of the court only, especially as you foresee in some of the provisions of this law that the value of these properties, even movable things, would be determined by the competent authorities in the territory where the immovable property is located. Here's the court's jurisdiction around where the real estate is. In addition, there will be a problem in applying, establishing the value of the assets to be returned. In some cases, you predict that this value in moving things is determined by an expert. This should determine the court by means of an expert who is assigned from the list of witches. Otherwise, in practice, this is going to be a big problem, so imagine if you get 150,000 demands, and that should land in one agency. Well, it's impossible to get there at all at that agency, that question solved. That's absolutely impossible. It could only be solved at the level of competent territorial courts. The agency won't be able to do it in practice. Secondly, the issue of legal medicine is raised. Where's the complaint, in which case is the appeal filed and who's handling the complaint?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60768	People's MP, the law you're talking about right now is concluded in a principled search. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Return, Restitution, Property to Churches and Religious Communities is now now in place. I'm asking you about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60769	The church land that was taken away or the property of churches on the ground will be difficult to determine now. How to determine the value of the Vojlovak monastery within the Panchevo oil refinery. Very complicated. The property that was taken from that monastery in that direction, I just wanted to say it. And one more thing, here's what I expected, and that's what I expect when that injustice is corrected, when the law will finally be proposed or the land taken away, and it's about pastures, especially pastures in Vojvodina. The peasants were taken away, you know, and lost their pastures. It would be good to pass one law to return that property. Thank you, I wouldn't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60770	It's been used 10 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and he is the last registered speaker. It's available for 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60771	Just so we don't lose the thread, 'cause now it's the third item of the agenda. This is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities. Of course, I remind you of this because I want to avoid a theological, religious, religious and church debate, because this topic, this bill, can take it back a little bit, because I think these things should be avoided today. Let's start with what's written in the explanation, and it's written that there's a need to amend the existing law, and why? By the logic of the things that the directorate is growing into the agency, which is now the agency that should do a full return on all the laws according to which the property is being returned and, as Mr Djelic said, they plan to be an agency with about 200 employees who will work on these jobs, not only on the return of property to churches but also on the general law, which is what was the point of second today's agenda and how much we could notice, the second reason is that from the system of cash compensation is going to be transferred to cash compensation and that cash compensation gets two forms, money and bonds. We must conclude, if these are the reasons for changing the existing law, then it was likely legally-technically possible that that bill, which was in the second point of the agenda and in the framework of the transitional and final provisions of that law, would simply put this one out of force on the return of property to churches and religious communities, and that in the transitional and final provisions the situation of transition from directorship to agency, begin cases, etc. The promoter didn't define himself and I think it's a good thing he didn't define himself, because it's statusally two completely different things. In that law on the return of property to natural persons and the exception are individual legal persons, it is one legal status, and this is about churches and religious communities that have legal personality status, and that was once the private legal person, not the social legal person. This division doesn't exist anymore, but everything is being placed within the framework of a legal person with different rights within the seemingly same status, but not to make it complicated for the audience, I won't go any further. Of course, since it is dominant in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the SPC and this kind of Christianity, and it is at the centre of attention, but we need to draw attention to one fact that before the Second World War, church property was also the subject of some national measures of nationalisation, expropriation, agrarian reform, etc. The question really arises, is it possible that churches and religious communities have suffered the greatest damage from the state since 1945, but if we start from the assumption that it was 1945, we have to say that it was basically the ideological concept of the state that was created in 1945, and probably some unexplained accounts of young SCOYs with the church, because the church has some rules, like one or more, but it lasts about two thousand years, if not more. Now, when we talk about this law that was passed in 2006, I have to remind you that the reasons for the law being passed were not the ones that you had the chance to hear in this debate at all. The reason this law was passed in 2006 is in its own hypocrisy, and just to remind you, when there was a lot of talk about the KIM negotiations and then there was one Clero... If I did not add a sequel, the group concluded that this would return quickly, effectively to the SPC and to the religious communities in KIM territory, then it would simply explode the requirement to protect private property as sacred and then the UN, the EU and all those who exercise power on behalf of the UN in the territory of KIM would have to respect property rights and the SPC as dominant in that area, protect their property. As you see hypocrisy is mirrored in what someone said in the Republic of Serbia at the time, we will give some papers to the Serbian Orthodox Church, and you with these papers go towards the UN, KFOR and other structures there and rub your head if you can achieve what you can achieve. It was, of course, one reaction, rushed after what was happening in 2004, and you remember at that time there was both arson and that fire in Hilandar. Well, just to remind you, let's not forget what the motives were, what the reasons were. There was another hidden motive. It was based on the following, if the churches and religious communities return property they can earn on the basis of their assets and finance, support etc., etc. And so the cost would be reduced, if I may say so, both the states and the citizens above all the believers. So it wasn't honest. We need to remember that, remind ourselves. And that law was passed with a really large majority of votes in the National Assembly. And now, Mr. Djelic, let me read a little bit of your explanation, but you explained it a little bit better in your oral presentation. So, according to that 2006 law, when you make a cut, come on today, 40% of the land is returned and 15% of the facilities are returned. First, I must draw your attention to doubting this information. Why do I doubt this data? Well, I doubt it for one simple reason. Religious rituals are performed in religious facilities, churches, mosques, etc. It's a long time ago, if I may say so, in property law, the possession of churches and religious communities. These 15% of objects are probably some side objects and some of the objects that someone donated to the church. Now, according to these percentages, it can be concluded that the law failed, and then we get to this staff, let's say, potential, Directorate 17 employees and they can't finish that job. Now let's go back to those motives that were in 2006. Excuse me, please, we have been recently informed that someone has negotiated and has reached an agreement on land books, home books and other state records related to things and property located in KIM territory. This doesn't drink water. It's impossible for two separate processes to happen at the same time. Now let me ask you a question. In the best conditions for 100% return of SPC to KIM territory, is that possible? Just before you heard the information about a monastery. Similar data can be provided for all monasteries, and we have a lot of them on KIM territory. Why? The KiM territory has been a spare variant for centuries for the outgoing Byzantine empire. There the pearl and the culture and the art of that age moved. You know, in KIM, almost everyone can be in the front row of property protection. The Middle Ages would have remained a dark century if it hadn't been for Serbian monasterys. So, the pearl of civilization, Christian civilizations are located on KIM territory. Let me remind you, when I go abroad and talk to those who do not like Serbia from the EU, I disarm very easily. Mr. Djelic, I usually use one sentence. Show me a cultural historical monument of the Shyptar people in KIM space, which is not a sports hall "Boro and Ramiz". Do any of you know the cultural historical monument of the Shiptar people, I'm not talking about the Ottoman Empire, I'm talking about the Shiptar people at KIM? He's gone, he hasn't been recorded. Then what are we talking about? What, the SPC gets some paper? What kind of paper is he gonna get? When Tito proved the benefits of SFRY compared to Albania's Enver Hodge, do you know how many people were inhabited? Well, where are they located, on whose property? Serbian Orthodox churches and Serbs who were forbidden to return to KIM by the 1946 decision. Now you're talking about the epochal results to be achieved, it just needs to change this law. What epochal results? Or these bonds in the euro, is it possible that we will conduct Serbia's Euroisation at church? What kind of message is that? This message comes to me as a concord and bloody lithium. The other thing, Mr. Djelic, you must first of all understand that, regardless of whether you return the property, the cultural historical monuments of all churches and all religious communities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are the unmovable cultural well-being of the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia. Their appearance exceeds the importance of appropriate religious communities and churches. The state has an obligation to protect, cherish and protect it. If the state of the Republic of Serbia has failed to protect its economic assets, the economic potentials of KIM wealth, you expect the SPC that they can return something that you would give him with one piece of paper? Is that possible, people? Well, you didn't protect Trepcha, and then we hear, Mr. Djelic, I appreciate it if it's true what you said, every honor, a greater result that could have been achieved, but there were obstructions and you mentioned "Serbishums" that didn't want to comply with that law because there was a commitment both to the states and businesses that hold, etc. How is it possible that obstruction of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia is carried out by a public company founded by the Republic of Serbia? Well, that director wouldn't even be in the chair for three minutes anymore. You come here after five years, and you tell us, "Calimeter, people, that's injustice." We have a man who ran the "Serbishum", and I don't want to get into what party it is, you know what party it is. Well, how could he have obstructed the state? In the definition of state, among other things, there is a monopoly of physical coercion. You probably expected us to cry here because your obstruction is done by a party colleague. Please don't expect us to cry. We don't want to cry. We want to put everything in the coordinate system, see what it's like and how it is. I don't want to talk about desecrating certain immovableities and the close proximity of churches, the monasteries of world importance. The authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not have a physical presence in the KIM territory, so they cannot support the law. There are UN, turbo believers, Italians, Slovenians, Croats. They've replaced now with 15,000, KFOR's at 5,200. They can't provide protection. I can't, they don't want to. You have an initiative, Mr. Djelic, for your French to have the Serbian cultural heritage in KIM territory dominant, the only movement of feathers become Kosovo's cultural heritage. Explain to me, please, what led you to sit down to discuss this subject, not to think, but to sit across the street and have a conversation that represents such things. Probably not even Mirko Djordjevic that sociologist, a philosopher from the Shimanovac, would have designed it that way. Explain one thing to me, why don't you change the law? You don't change the provisions of the Agency's Directorate, you adopt the principle of monetary compensation. Who's going to give you the money to pay? The Vatican Bank? Do you know that their students in America owe $5 billion to the U.S. citizens for those convictions for the conduct of their priests? Please, who's gonna give you money for that? Thaci? His only interest is that. Angela Merkel? Well, it is her interest. Why are you changing the rules? You don't change the rules because it's not possible, it can't be executed, so to say this provision is bad, we're going to change it with this one that's going to make more efficient solutions. No, cash compensation. It's not cash compensation. It's compensation. That's the essential reason, the continuity of hypocrisy. But people, the SPC is older than the Serbian state, you understand? What the hell are you guys playing with? What are you playing with? Read the explanation, read the changes and the additions, read the changes and the additions, tell me what the main motive is? What do 17 do, now they'll do 200 better? Well, she'll get her paper back. So when you scan their land book cadastre, what's going to happen? Are you thinking about what might appear? What kind of records can appear? Well, you're not saying it's anti-European. Let me draw your attention to the seriousness of this subject, Mr. Djelic. This topic is extremely serious. On the return of property to the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia, a large dispute has been going on for quite some time. You know why, Mr. Djelic? Because the books showed that a good part of Ljubljana would not be owned by worldly people, but rather the property of the Roman Catholic Church and had to bow down because the Vatican financed them in 1990 and 1991 for secession, and recently the Czech Republic established some agreement with the Roman Catholic Church on the return of their property after 20 years of negotiations. There's a slightly different situation, because the Roman Catholic Church knows who's boss, and here you're talking about eparchys. In some diocese, it's 40%, in some 70%, in some 80%, you know? We don't see the reason, the real reason why this is changing. We don't see that these solutions you're offering are much more effective. As for believers, as far as churches and religious communities are concerned, they are interested in returning what was theirs. What are they offered with this shift now? Bonds? What do you want to prove, that churches and religious communities love money, cash much more than property and facilities to serve religious service? Or maybe you're preparing something new for churches and religious communities, because that's why someone from abroad calls you, and some NGOs? They call you, they don't let you get involved in things. Is there even one line with you, so to say – we can talk to this line, there is no more conversation on this line, we can't talk? It's simple, it's said – we can't. SPC is an institution, a reflection of tradition, a reflection of the spirit and spirituality of this people. KIM territory, with our monasteries, churches, etc., is something that can't go into bonds. Guys, he can't go to bonds, he can't. They can't fit the bonds. There are no such bonds. There's no such number with so many zeros between which you would put a sign of equality with the Patriarchy, with Gracanica, with the Decians, that I don't order any further. If the market economy has prevailed, that does not mean that everything is for sale. That doesn't mean everything's for sale. It has to be said somewhere – enough, let's stop, we haven't heard a valid reason for changing this law, and you know when it's being brought in and why it's being brought in. You've seen for yourself that this operation hasn't produced any results on KIM since 2006. They had nothing to do with it. They are pushing into their draft policy towards Serbia and the Serbian people. They don't care about our sanctity. They put a barbed wire at 100 meters around the monastery and they said a message – up to barbed wire, you can do whatever you want, from barbed wire to church seat, there we are, guarding us five boys, don't go there. Do you know how you stopped them? You've stopped them dangerously. Not you, but the UN. Then the question arises why doesn't the UN finally start representing something that's normal? How can the EU not see that? He doesn't want to see it. You know what the Council of Europe did in 1992, 1993, 1994 with analyses and studies on the state of religious facilities on BiH territory? Do you know what difference there is in artificial findings when warlocks are for BiH and when warlocks are for KIM? You had to know all this before you stabbed a pen to think about a regulation like this. But obviously when the EU doesn't have an alternative, then the SPC becomes the ninth hole in the play, as your pets put it. Thank you for your patience to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60772	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60773	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like very briefly to answer a few questions that have been asked about, not only the amendment and addition of this law, but generally the confiscation. First, let me say that the amendments to the law are here to speed up and complete the restitution. There was success and there was difficulty. First, to correct a mistake in my previous presentation, since the truth is, the most important thing is not about Serbia, but about Vojvodina's forests that have made a serious obstruction in the application of this law. In the weeks to come and in the application of these laws, I will personally not hesitate to appoint institutions, and any executives who do not deal with the necessary professionalism, i.e. I wouldn't call it a grizzly, but at least the necessary obligations stemming from these laws that I hope will get broad support in Monday's voting day. As far as compensation is concerned, first of all, I'd like to underline one thing that may not be that obvious. No one said that according to this law, damage to the religious community, i.e. by church to be maximum half a million euros. Absolutely not. What I can say is that the law in this area concerning compensation would be applied properly, of course, to go towards the church being treated in the same way as the citizens, in terms of relative proportion between the value of the property and the compensation that they can receive. We are faced with the fact that the legal structure of various churches and religious communities is different, so this goal will not be easy to achieve and it will not come by automation. For this reason, with the Directorate, tomorrow we will exchange mechanisms with the Resuscitation Agency, and in the domain of compensation, churches and religious communities, in some ways, as well as other citizens of our country and other legal persons. As for the specific situation and the Serb community here, I must say that, people say, it is difficult to return property to a quarreled house. It's not just because of the restitution that it's important to establish unity in that community. We all know that there are more serious, perhaps more serious reasons, which are why it's very important, especially when we realize that lately a part of the conflict that exists or that is produced to speak quite openly has property impediments. But let this law on restitution, these amendments and the addition of the law on the return of property to church and religious communities may also be a new incentive to find an adequate solution for that community, which is why I am grateful to the MP who spoke about that community a little earlier. Finally, at the end of the KiM, of course the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia and all our authorities are in constant activity to especially endanger the positions of our country. Of course there is an attempt now that so much has been destroyed, the last time in 2004, after that pogrom which had resulted in the destruction of our churches, that now that it is no longer trying in some symbolic sense to kidnap our cultural heritage. Dear People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia and our general state will continue to make every effort not to. For this we need to have absolute unity and to make it clear everywhere who, and under what state circumstances, built Gracanica, the monastery in Prizren that you talked about or, in turn, Hotch. I can only say, as far as Prizren, the honourable MP, I had this honor on behalf of all my colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to spend our Christmas in Kosovo, right in our reconstructed church in Prizren, where we first realized that the Serbs were almost gone in Prizren, where there were many, that at the same time all around the surrounding places came to celebrate our Christmas. We were there with our bishop, and we found the same thing that Shayton after that at Prizren, of course, things would be difficult, but that there must be dialogue with other residents of Prizren, Albanians and the future must be this combination of fighting for our rights everywhere in an appropriate way, but also a dialogue that should ensure that our population, especially the Serb population, survives in KIM. That's very important. When I heard from local people that Albanian workers were working on the reconstruction of the church, it was a step forward, not a step back. Great Hota, Decani, the pearl of Serbian and world architecture, of course, and the sadness to hear that brothers live there under constant pressure, that in 2008, a drunk former KLA member found nothing worse than to fire a rocket at that monastery. Italian soldiers present, our side demands that they remain present. Of course, we can say -- we need to find another solution, but what we need to do is do everything we can at every step of the way. It does not serve the honor of that Serbian citizen who is seeking a huge figure to sell a hectare of land between Gracanica and its collapse, i.e. a country that allows the authorities and sisters to live there. I personally asked him how it goes with his safety and does he know what Gracanica is? He gave in a little bit, but not much. Also, a large number of people who sold that country around our monasteries, that's our reality, and that's what we need to talk about. New temptations await us, a hunting home, near the Peèka Patriarchy, some trying to sell it, and if it is by us in an unfavourable way, it will be an additional danger, not for the largest, but for the center of our Orthodox church. That's why I want to tell you, honourable Members of Parliament, that what will happen with church property, especially in KIM, is an integral part of our state policy. With great attention we will continue to deal with this topic, present at all times, ready always for dialogue, but always reminding who built it, which is the state and which are the rights that belong under these sanctities, not only to the SPC, but to the entire Serbian people. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-21-0.u60774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I conclude this 13th session at 23.05 p.m., I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in today's work, the employees of the National Assembly, all the other unemployed, as well as the members of the RTS team on this 13th hour day, which I hope will continue in a good dialogue tone, debate and debate in detail, or debate on amendments to the laws that we have completed the search in principle. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. For today we finish work and continue work tomorrow, September 22 at 10.00 hours debate in particular on the first item of the agenda. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. To determine the number of MPs, who put their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please do so, to see if they have acquired the Rules of Procedure prescribed conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly. I find that 85 MPs are present in the electronic system, with their identification cards, as well as another number of MPs present at the National Assembly Hall. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. by the position of the 1st member, states that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which are necessary for the MP to exercise the role of the Members of Parliament. The President-in-Office, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise his right to attend a session of the National Assembly in one address, up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask, do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right to Article 286 and ask a question? I'm just asking you to sign up for an electronic voting system. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, five minutes. Here you go.
