ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56466	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system in order to determine the number by electronic system, regardless of the fact that it is very obvious that the number will be greater than the number identified, because it is visually easy to determine a number of MPs. I find that the electronic system has established that more than 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for working for the Rules of Procedure. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, I remind the MPs, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in the 1st position that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally in a single address for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the session is opened and the number of MPs attending the session is determined, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286? The People's MP Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56467	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to request a notice from the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and from the Minister of Justice on the reform of the judiciary. In my deep conviction, the way the judicial reform was implemented is one of the biggest failures of this government. This reform consisted of or consisted of two elements. On the one hand, the re-election procedure was carried out by judges, or public prosecutors, and on the other hand the judicial network was re-organised. Both processes were implemented in a way that proves that the reform was not properly implemented and these are findings from the European Commission's report last year. Therefore, the re-election procedure of judges and prosecutors has been carried out in an untransparent manner, the principle of independence of judges and objective criteria have not been applied. As a consequence, a review of the re-election process of judges and public prosecutors has been launched these days with great delay compared to the Justice Ministry's own action plan. On the other hand, as regards the reorganisation of the network of courts, with no valid arguments, 104 municipal courts have been abolished, and the European Commission's report also found that reforms have negatively affected the overall efficiency of the judicial system, that judges and judicial staff are forced to travel from courts to judicial units, which calls for significant resources and creates security concerns. Recently, two months ago, the chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council practically acknowledged what SVM MPs discussed when these laws were passed, said that the network of courts did not provide equal access to justice, in an interview with the VSS president of 14 April in "Politica". She said in the interview that the Supreme Cassation Court would propose to the Ministry of Justice to amend the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts after a detailed analysis and that the VSS would refer the proposal to the justice ministry to review the network of courts. I'd have two questions. One question is to the president of the VSS, and this question is – have these detailed analyses been completed, or have they been carried out, and, on the other hand, is the proposal addressed to the Ministry of Justice for reviewing the network of courts? The second question is referred to by the Minister of Justice – does the Ministry of Justice prepare to amend and supplement the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and, if this is the case, for what period this year or possibly the beginning of next year, if such changes and additions are prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56468	The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56469	Dear Chairman, I have two questions for the government, or the competent ministry. The first question concerns the conclusion of inter-state contracts and agreements on the protection of interest in the conclusion of mutual agreements between legal or natural persons on business co-operation. To be clear, a member of the parliamentary group has been contacted by one of our citizens who has problems with the payment of the debt by a company in Austria. The person concluded a contract with a company in Austria, and the contract envisioned a clause that in the event of a dispute, the holder of the protection of property rights and the interest of our citizen is competent to have the appropriate court in Serbia. With such a clause of the contract, the stranger agreed and signed the contract. As the customer of the service in Austria failed to fulfil its obligations, or failed to pay the agreed amount of money for the service done, a court dispute has occurred in Serbia and has been going on for eight years. The president of the Austrian firm also attended all hearings. On the basis of relevant evidence, the court ruled in favour of our citizen, including the Serbian Supreme Court. However, the defendant has not respected the executive verdict to date, arguing there is no agreement between Serbia and Austria on the mutuality and recognition of the executive judgments of competent courts in trade matters between Serbia and Austria. It is true that there is no such agreement. In this case, I think it's an abuse of the situation by the Austrian firm, and I'm sure there are other cases like this, and that knowingly violates the code of good business relations of the contractors. This imposes the need for Serbia to take measures to protect our citizens from such phenomena, as well as the opposite, if there are such cases. Otherwise, the only way out is to press charges to the International Court in Strasbourg, which requires significant financial resources. This case raises my question to the government, or to the competent ministry, when or whether there is a near future for Serbia, in this case with Austria, to conclude an interstate agreement, or an appropriate act, which will oblige countries to respect each other's decisions, i.e. the executive judgments of Serbia's competent courts, or Austria, depending on how a business relationship contract provides and thus protects the interests of our citizens and businesses providing services to foreign companies, i.e. to protect interests in business co-operation of contractors. The second question is addressed to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, i.e. the Privatisation Agency – when will the Privatisation Agency exercise the control of the privatisation of AD "Inks Krajina" Negotin, by buying social capital, by auctioning the consortium of customers and by 72.268 shares? Has the Privatisation Agency identified the reasons why majority shareholders did not allow minority shareholders, with 129 of them with 13% of the total capital to sell their shares and why they did not sanction according to the law although the purchase of social capital contract was not fully legalised, as well as the social programme? Why did the Privatisation Agency allow one privatisation entity to take over the founding rights in another economic operator Mita Began and why did it not propose to terminate the purchase contract and immediately thereafter stop the work of AD "Inex Krajina" Negotin? Why didn't she initiate his liquidation procedure with a special measure to oblige the majority owner to carry out a mandatory purchase of actions owned by minority shareholders? Why has the agency not imposed emergency measures in this stock company within its powers, although it has been notified that there has been a complete block of management of this once successful company for two years? The Assembly of Shareholders has not been held, nor has the Management Board made important administrative decisions. No business audit with the auditory house has been agreed, although the law explicitly requires it. The blocking of the giro accounts is very common, the tax police in their finding obliged the company to immediately pay two million dinars in the name of an uncomputed and unpaid VAT. No criminal charges, no criminal charges, no kidnappings. The Management Board has not been in session for six months, and there is no question about the legality of the company AD "Ines Krajina". The Agency shall not initiate a liquidation or bankruptcy procedure from which staffed shareholders, trustees and companies would be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56470	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56471	Good afternoon, Your Honor. I refer the issue to the prime minister, i.e. the Serbian government, and it is about the latest appearances of the president of the Association of Professional Players of Serbia and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Namely, while hosting a television show on Sunday, he made one claim or finding that looks ridiculous, banal, but is essentially very dangerous. I'd like the prime minister to tell us if it's some kind of government conclusion or not the first appearance of the president of the Association of Professional Players, on his own, which is the opposite of the government's policy. So, Vuk Jeremic is on that show, aside from a series of nonsense he has made or we can tell lies, and the most impressive and easiest to verify is his claim that President Azerbaijan Ali is the winner of the Legion of Honor France, which is of course notorous nonsense. Of course that's not true. Despite a series of nonsense, Vuk Jeremic has embarked on something that the LDP believes is a very dangerous and risky move. So Vuk Jeremic announced on the show that after Kosovo, he is the next part of Serbia's territory to intend to secede Sandzak. My question is to the prime minister – is it the government's position? Is that a prelude to some kind of war? Should we all deal with Bosniaks who want to escape from us Serbs now, or is it another in a series of unfortunate performances by the president of the Professional Association of Serbian tennis players? My question is very serious because in the recent history of our country we have already been through one phase in which we resisted each other and said that it was a betrayal, traitors, warning us that the CIA, the English service, the Russian service, depended on which side we were on, the Vatican, but we were sure that the time was behind us and that such a thing, such an accusation, would not be repeated on behalf of one seemingly democratic government. Given the fact that after the reconstruction, this government has adopted some rule that no minister will make views that are contrary to the government's views, I think this issue should have a certain weight and priority in response, as we must be aware of the policy that follows from such seemingly banal statements by Vuk Jeremic. So we think and we're sure there's no secession in Sandzak, no idea of it. We think that the background of such a statement by Vuk Jeremic or one of many of his statements is such that he wants to cover up personal frustration with his failures, but we think it is unacceptable for the prime minister, if we have him at all, to not make an announcement at this time and to tell us, the citizens of this country, whether we are at risk of having another part of the territory secede. Next, we want to know what he thinks or maybe he blames them too. Sandzak's representatives in the government, Sulejman Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic, may be the leaders of the idea or president of the Association of Professional Players think of someone else. I'd like that to be made clear to us, otherwise we'll be able to initiate his shift for who knows which time. We don't get it, you know, his attitudes are often different from the government's views. I'll remind you of the Nobel Prize. He was the bearer of the idea that Serbia needs such an anachron idea as the Nobel Prize to boycott and not participate in the circus. Furthermore, he was the bearer of some kind of policy we couldn't tell by now that he was part of the government's policy. But given the lack of a prime minister who has solved it seems to be talking to us every 100 days, as I see that he has addressed today about the reconstruction of the government, we expect this question to be answered. I'm saying this considering a really special situation in Sandzak. I remind you that the government there has not allowed its behaviour to form a national council of Bosniaks in Serbia, that there is political pressure from Belgrade as Bosniaks see it. We just want to know if what Vuk Jeremic said, since he's professionally playing tennis, he's doing his job as foreign minister in his spare time – is it actually some new government policy? We'd really like to know. If so, I would ask the chairman to schedule a special session of the Assembly with this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56472	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56473	Thank you. Good afternoon, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Today is the 100th day of a new reconstructed government. This is what my former colleague, a former speaker, noticed. But it was indeed undetected that Prime Minister Cvetkovic did not say about 100 days of the reconstructed government that he was satisfied with the reconstruction, that large steps were made and major progress in all segments of the government's functioning. Even I don't want to comment on it. I leave it to the citizens of our country to find out for themselves whether or not it has been made forward. What I want to ask here as a parliamentary question is precisely the prime minister and finance minister Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. According to the Law on the financing of local self-government, the government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to pay local self-government transfer funds of 1.7% of GDP. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of May 2009, these assets, by law, are reduced by local self-government and we are already present for two, almost three years, that contrary to the Law on the financing of local self-government, municipalities, local self-government, reduced funds are paid to cities. Total debts are roughly 50 billion to local self-government. I come from Capca and close to 600 million dinars for these two and a half years or three years since this government's existence is less funds have been paid into the budget of the city of Sapca. It's the same with other cities. This resulted in the city of Sabac taking loans of 340m dinars on today, so nearly three and a half million euros. This speaks vividly enough about the damage the government of the Republic of Serbia has done to local self-government in Serbia. Such a situation is similar in other cities, in Leskovec, in many municipalities, especially in a smaller situation is much worse. What is my particular question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Finance Minister Cvetkovic, is – does the government accept the fact that local self-government owes the transfer funds of 50 billion dinars and when it intends to return those funds to local self-government in that amount, what is its obligation under the Law on the financing of local self-government? I expect a concrete response from otherwise concrete and dynamic Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56474	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, within a few days, the full year since SNS President Tomislav Nikolic in the sad system with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic and Police Minister Ivica Dacic brought to the public the most monstrous and worst possible charges against SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj and they then ordered the alleged murder of Tomislav Nikolic through all other daily newspapers in the public of Serbia. They then claimed that the murder was ordered by Luke Bojovic, the head of the Earth Clan, that this claim was to be made to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia by Milos Simovic and then further dragged, embellished and designed, and talked about how it was supposed to look, and talked about how the murder team had already been designated, that they had already had a certain weapon, that the details of the murder were already known, and that this murder should, or assassination, have been done on June 28th, at Vidovdan, in Kraševec at the failed SNS rally, and that way I suppose they tried to distract the public from it, but because of these monstrous lies, the families of Dr Vojislav Seselj, his wife, his four sons, his grandchildren, who had been protected because he had been in The Hague for nine years now, passed through the real media lynch and as a real hell. Vojislav Seselj then filed criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic, and Elena Bozic-Talijan, Vjerica Radeta and I filed criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic for spreading false news and false accusations. He made another incredible lie, which is that Dr Vojislav Seselj of The Hague tribunal two or three years ago, had already ordered one man's murder, did not want to tell whom, but my God, good Tomislav Nikolic decided not to commit the murder, and even told that man, he was quite sharp, so he told him – if you commit that murder, he no longer comes to the party. There you go. There's so much Gandi from Bajceta that's just-loving. Another criminal report we filed, a criminal charges against Alexander Vukic and Simovic's lawyers, Zelemir Cubril and this other, that the SRS president allegedly ordered the murder. None of these three criminal charges have been processed and I am asking for a reply from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, asking for an answer from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, why so. Is it possible that the president of any parliamentary party can be exposed to such a link without the state doing anything to protect it. That is, Judge Vuk Rabrenovic, who runs the procedure, therefore, on the charges of Dr Vojislav Seselj against Tomislav Nikolic for libel, the criminal charges were filed in July, early July of last year, number K 21907/10. He twice wrote to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia's Administrative Board, asking that Tomislav Nikolic's immunity be declared in accordance with the law, and that the procedure could continue. He wrote in September 2010, there was no reply and then he wrote again in March 2011. Here, it slowly expires in June, and there is still no answer, so the practice continues that Tomislav Nikolic's political stepfather, Boris Tadic, via the Administrative Board and Nenad Konstantinovic, who protected the mandates, the stolen SNS mandates that stole from us, continue to protect him. So, the SRS doesn't want to get into what kind of decision the Administrative Board will make, but we think that for a year more than enough time, and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the law, you had to put it on the agenda of the Administrative Board, you had to make whatever decision, so let Tomislav Nikolic hide well behind immunity, let him say that I lied and said that he wanted someone to kill me with a black arrow, which I lied about how Vojislav Seselj was some kind of monster, those were lies, so I will hide behind immunity, but he can no longer hide Nenad Konstantinovic, cannot be hidden by the assembly majority of DS and his political stepfather Boris Tadic. So we're looking for a clear answer, whatever he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56476	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56477	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I would like to ask the Justice Ministry a question, will the investigation of the murder of Judge Nebojsa Simenovic finally take place from the dead point of view? That man is, to remind me, found dead right after the killing. To arrest the Kolubara strike board in September 2000, as well as DOS leaders Boris Tadic and Nebojsa Covic for false accusations of destroying the state order. The power of the late investigative judge's sister, Nebojsa Simunovic, lawyer Milorad Panjević, submitted for the second time a request to Belgrade's Higher Prosecutor's Office to give him insight into the report of the General Inspectorate of the MUP and the commission formed by then-MUP Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. The request was originally sent on 30 May 2006. I would also quote to Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac, a republican public prosecutor who I highly respect, who says that this case is very much being done and that more concrete results are expected soon. According to her, the public should be aware that, at a time when the judge was killed, there were gaps in the investigation and that the work on this case was obstructed by the remains of the previous regime which in various ways stepped up the lighting of the case. Now we come to a key point, to opening a secret file because this statement says there are remains of the former regime, this statement says there are obstructions. It is very important to determine who obstructed, what remains are, and who ordered the obstruction of the determination of truth regarding this murder. And I would also ask the Ministry of Justice when it plans to present its draft law on opening the file, because without that democratic step, it seems to me that we will always be condemned to just remember the murders of journalists, but not to find their killers and I think it's a democratic step which is our first next step, which we must do as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56478	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak, to exercise their right under Article 286? MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56479	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Today is the 100-day government that has been reconstructed and here we heard this morning and the prime minister who came out and said that the crisis has passed, that he is satisfied with the work of the government, that they have achieved extremely good results in all segments, that the situation in Serbia has improved significantly from the previous government, etc. I'd like to ask the prime minister in which the ministries have improved the working conditions, the prowess? Has the standard of citizens increased? What companies have done, that investors have come to Serbia, that have done projects from the infrastructures that have been announced, who are investors who have come to Serbia in these 100 days, and how it is possible for the government to work without budget rebalances in these 100 days. How is it possible that simply the Budget Law, adopted at the end of last year, was put out of force and that this government, which is significantly smaller than the previous one, where some ministries were shut down, some divided, function perfectly normal? The funds are spent normally, on whose order, how and in what way? How does the vault pay certain jobs in ministries that did not exist until the government was reconstructed? What about the funds that we've adopted in the budget law in the ministries that have been completely shut down? Is the Budget Law respected or not? Who's the one who ordered the law passed in this House to put the maltenes out of effect and to deal with some budget law that no one here knows? I don't know how payments are made, how certain jobs are done, which were agreed and simply announced. Therefore, this government has a number of failures it has made, and the first failure and the biggest failure is that it violates the Budget Law. It's an extremely large crime. I understand the temporary funding, I understand that some reserves, budget reserves, etc. are being used, but working 100 days without budget rebalances, that's inexplicable. Maybe someone from the ruling coalition has an answer to this question. I've put him in parliament several times, but no one answers him. Simply, no one is bound by those promises that were and are contained in the Budget Law, which was adopted this year. Therefore, no commitment given here in parliament simply obliges anyone to fulfill it, because there is no budget law that is completely broken and that is completely out of force by this government. I would ask the prime minister to really come into this parliament with a budget rebalance and put it in order, if he will. If they do not, let them do as they do, but the question is, how long will they work and how will they come to this parliament to verify all this, although there were thousands and thousands of various gaps? Therefore, I ask the ruling majority's MPs to make themselves known about this issue and to do what is agreed, as much as possible. We're in a situation where you don't know who drinks and who pays. You don't know anything here, you don't know where we're going tomorrow, how we're going to do something tomorrow, how we're going to do it, and how are we going to pay for it? How do you get into some investments? Does he have funds or no funds? So this is all so cloudy, and the best fish is caught in a blur, at least that's what our people say. I really ask you gentlemen from the ruling coalition, come to your senses and adopt the budget rebalancing and you are doing according to the laws that this Parliament should adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56480	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word to exercise their right to Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zoran Bortic. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the FINANCE OF THE FINANCES IN THE LOCAL SAME You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Nemanja Sarović, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Poskurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Žalović, Mirović, Dragović, Dragović, Drago Ža Žalić. You have received a report from the Committee on Local Self-Government, as well as the opinion of the proposing representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic, on the amendments submitted. National MP Meho Omerovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 10. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to a review of the amendments, may I remind you that the time in the debate in particular has been allocated by parliamentary groups in proportion to the debate in principle, while the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, have 15 minutes each. Authorised representatives, for the time being, I have information on two parliamentary groups, the DSS parliamentary group -- authorised representative Milan Lapcevic, the SRS parliamentary group -- authorised representative Zoran Krasic. The time of debate under each amendment is two minutes. An application for representatives of parliamentary groups or presidents only to say whether they are using time from representatives of a parliamentary group or from a parliamentary group, in case they explain the amendment for more than two minutes. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56481	Mrs. Comic, this will be the time for the amendment and in the follow-up of the parliamentary group, you know. What did we want with the amendment to Article 1 to achieve? We wanted to draw attention to the legislator of this law and those who are in power, as well as the mayors, the presidents of the municipalities and the general public, that, in essence of the provision on the transition transfer from the existing Law on the financing of local self-government, they no longer exist, for three years these provisions have been in force. Of course, let's also draw attention to looking at this and the prank that is being carried out with these amendments and additions to this law. I don't need to convince anyone that the legislator of this law with the parties who have made this insidious variant in power—the turkey dot, it doesn't count, now we're going to reset everything and go with new provisions, and we're going to forget that in two and a half years or three countries, that is, this authority has not paid off the non-purpose transfers in that scope as prescribed by the law that they just passed. That's the first thing we wanted to do with this amendment. We think it's time that, in the context of a non-purpose transfer, funds were allocated to something that would be an intervention. We believe that this should be a development transfer, that this transfer allows those units of local self-government, first and foremost from the fourth and third groups of development, according to your criteria, to always be guaranteed from this, if I may say, works of non-intentional transfer of a certain level of funds, which would help these units of local self-government to have faster development and to catch the connection to somehow reach that level that average for local self-government units at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we knew that our amendment would not be accepted, because this amendment actually takes the mask off of this proposal and even the agreement reached within the ruling coalition. I must tell you that the basic idea of amending this law was not what we received in the bill. In the principle debate, I told you that these were just planted members, and that in the extreme version, when you vote, all these members will have some other text and some other meaning. Of course, you didn't deny me, but you just confirmed that my political assessment, because you accepted all the amendments of the high-minded MPs, the independent MPs from the DS, and, of course, the pronoun accepted it, because it's part of the agreed concept. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. So, you from cities and municipalities, turkey dots, don't be valid, forget what the state owes you, which is prescribed by law and the Budget Law, of course reduced in a certain percentage, forget all citizens who are in the additional elections during 2009 and 2010 precisely because of that part of the transfer that was promised, so you made it possible to form an abnormal power in Bora and in some other places or in Kovin, and you allowed us to forget about the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, which is an even worse variant than the non-intentional transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget. But about that, then. So we have achieved that effect that we wanted to make with this amendment, we have drawn attention to the need to make a development transfer within non-purpose, to really help local self-government units, such as the famous Black Treva, Babušnica, Bela Palanka, Zitista, Plandišta, Alibunara, etc. But, you see for yourself, the government won't, the government is talking against Belgrade, and everything is working for Belgrade, new sedation, Kragujevac, allegedly Nis, where their personnel are, where they're going through public procurement and in other ways pretty much the resources of future transfers to spill into private pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56482	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56483	Mr. Novakovic, I think this amendment has shown what the ruling coalition really wants to achieve. With this amendment, we proposed that Article 15(2) be amended and read as follows: "The government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and with the opinion of the Commission on the financing of local self-government determines the maximum amount for local municipal taxes referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of this Article, with each of those local municipal taxis individually unable to be higher than on 1 January 2007, increased by the consumer price index by the year for which it is determined". I think Mr. Stevanović will give you concrete examples of Surdulica, as it seems in practice. Now let's simplify it a little bit. The promoter said - the government cannot determine the amounts. It's this company, you know, not to go any further, it's familiar. There cannot be absolute freedom within the framework of local self-government, although it is the electoral income of local self-government. It should in some way limit itself. Then the changer said – up to two average salaries. You will see later, smart DS MPs put a finger on their foreheads, so they imagined something, so they said here – three and a half, but it doesn't matter, so it didn't matter – it moved, and, of course, the promoter immediately agreed. What's the point of our amendment? Since this law began to apply on 1 January 2007, and there is no need for some fundamental changes, we retain the principle that this is the original income of local self-government, a local municipal tax. We feel it is necessary in some way to determine the maximum amount. We understand by amendment that this can be the amount found on 1 January 2007, with an increase, i.e. indexation that is applied in the usual way for all values that are kind of changing because of inflation and other things. Our amendment has not been accepted, the amendment of some completely different content has been accepted. By not accepting our amendment, you're actually slapping your law that was passed in 2006. Why are you slapping? You don't acknowledge continuity, you allow indexation for everything where your income is, so let's say excise, etc. and so on, and here you don't accept indexation. Why? Because local self-government was absolutely out of control when it comes to the company. From the draft law, these amendments, and this amendment, it is not clear whether this limit is set for all these local taxes collectively or for each of those taxis individually. Why did you do that? You deliberately do such laws that are confusing so that in practice you can harass, do whatever you want. As a confirmation of this political stance that we have promoted with this amendment, Mr. Stevanovic will now explain to you what it is like in Surdulica with local municipal taxes and what it will mean for Surdulica if it is adopted or the variant proposed by the promoter or variant proposed by DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56484	Thank you. The word is proposed by Mr Dinkic and Mr Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56485	To take the opportunity to respond to both of your findings. First, in the current Law on the financing of local self-government, a transition transfer has been found to be valid only three years from the time the law was passed. The law, as you said correctly, came into force in 2006 on 1 January 2007. The transition transfer that was meant to level the transfer level to those local self-governments in order to potentially negative effects of the change in the previous law expired in 2009. There has been no transition transfer since 2009 under the existing law. The word "transition transfer" has only been deleted for legal and technical reasons, as the transfer effectively does not exist in the last two years, because its duration has been three years since the current law was passed, which is from 2006 to 2009. That's the answer to your first remark. As for the second, Mr. Oedipus of the DS has submitted a correction to the amendments we accepted on the Committee on Local Self-Government, which is that there is essentially no limit to local self-government to determine the company. In other words, our intention was to make the fact that local self-government gets twice the profit tax and significantly increase local budgets to limit the maximum amount of companies by law. However, given that both the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities has taken the view that it is necessary to give freedom to cities and municipalities to determine the company themselves and to answer for it in front of their citizens, I agreed with this concept that responsibility should be exclusively in cities and municipalities. In other words, the proposed limit to the maximum amount of the company was removed. Under the adopted amendment, cities and municipalities themselves will be able to determine the maximum amount of companies themselves, as has been the case so far under the existing law. The only thing left to do for old and art crafts is to introduce a release from paying these companies. So there will be no limits to two average salaries, not three and a half, but there are no limits. There remains the provision of an existing law that full responsibility be taken over by cities and municipalities. We think that cities and municipalities should reduce companies when they get these higher incomes from profit tax, but they should decide for themselves, because, in the end of the line, those who manage cities and municipalities go to elections and should respond to their entrepreneurs, their citizens, so that they continue to decide on their own and we accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56486	Thank you. Mr. Krassic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56487	We've finally heard some cuts, and now I'm going to say why they're the wrong blades. The basic principle of original income is that the rate, manner and criteria for this are determined by the unit of local self-government, but that the Republic can impose certain restrictions on the level of the tax rate by law and establish the maximum or minimum amount of that fee. An existing solution in Article 15(2) moved within the framework, if I may say so, of the legal framework prescribed by Article 2. Law on the financing of local self-government. What does this intervention of yours mean in practice? We have so far had the situation that the government was in charge of establishing the highest amount and we have had the situation that the government has determined this in a very confusing way. If only the units of local self-government are left to do so now, and the Republic says – we do not want to use our powers so that we can prescribe the highest and lowest. Remember, everyone here knows this, but they should know the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that in translation means the following -- these two, three years that you paid for the company's one-off not the government's fault, but local self-government, and local self-government couldn't provide funds from the Republic's budget, because the good part of the non-intentional transfers were abolished. Then the government told the units of local self-government – you manage with the original incomes and in this way you who hold cafes, you who hold craft shops, shops, agencies, lawyers and not to speak all of it, all of you who have a prominent firm paid big companies to meet the needs of local self-government, the government has nothing to do with it. But in a situation where for three years there have been budget cuts towards local self-government units, in a situation of economic crisis, which is evident with us, in a situation where it is reportedly encouraging any entrepreneurial activity and in many other situations such a solution is actually fatal to local self-government units, because it will neither generate any major income, and it will come to the situation that businesses from local self-government units to the local self-government unit determine abnormally. It's about this part. As for this first part, that the non-purpose transfer was lifted, that he stopped himself three years ago, you're all right, but you can't go over the fact that the third year doesn't pay out 1.7 of GDP through these transfers to local self-government units, where you told local self-government units – for all the missing funds, go ahead and get in charge. Today, we have units of local self-government from Belgrade to black grass that are all over-indebted. We have units of local self-government that a three-year, four-year budget cannot close the holes that have been created in these five, six years of uncontrollable debt that has been stimulated by this government. Then in the end, we have a kind of hypocrisy that whoever created this concept today proposes a change and tramples on what he swore in 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56488	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on what Mr Dinkic said a little while ago, and based on what we've received from this morning with these papers, or the opinion of the promoter and what it says, indeed, Mr Dinkic, we don't really know what your concept is, what you're actually proposing. Do those arguments, under the precepts of the principled debate, refer to what the DS gentlemen served you, and you accept that they would vote for it, or that law that you defended us in the principle debate? Look, in the principle debate, I read you what you said at a forum. You said decentralisation couldn't be done in any way. Now you're forcing her to do a partial, if this can even be called decentralisation. That's one thing. Secondly, you are the man who has most vocally called local self-government for companies, i.e. the utility fees imposed on companies, entrepreneurs, privates, public enterprises, or companies in which these companies, communal fees, are charged. Am I not telling the truth, Mr. Dinkich? You asked the government to settle, so to speak, with local self-government and impose their obligation and reason on them not to act so arrogantly. You're telling us now that you're leaving it to local self-government, but not because you wanted to, but because it's what Mr. Oedipus Sheriff wanted. Why didn't you ask us to do it in principle, but now? Now this is actually an example that shows how seriously you've actually approached this whole story and that this should all have one populist capacity and nothing more. You need percentages for the election and nothing more. You say - local self-government will do the free, voluntary thing in the next period, which you have fought in the previous period and advocated not to be so. And by your indifference, Mr Dinkic, as vice-president of the government, and you and your colleagues in the government, you have allowed local self-government in Serbia to make the kind of communal fees I will read. In part, I agree with you that this kind of municipal tax should not and should not be, but I can't even end up accusing myself of local self-government, because as someone who was in local self-government, I was forced to partially charge companies and companies with communal taxes, because you, as Government, were stealing from us for transfers that you didn't want to transfer to us. You can't even put everything on the burden of local self-government. I'll try when I say this, since it's about the community I come from, to be impartial. I'm not going to defend local self-government, and I'm not going to argue with it until the end, but I'm going to read you what your concept in the government has imposed on the municipalities. One more thing, you weren't obliged to make this possible under a law that was in force so far. You have made a commitment as a government to set the criteria, and you have never done that, because you did not respect the law. The criteria, with consultation with the commission, I guess for local self-government, you never adopted and you offered it to local self-government – here, gentlemen of the local self-government, you write the fees you want, I will publicly advocate it, you argue with the private companies that have come to you and the investors, discuss, trade public fees that are five and a half ten million each, do whatever you want, and on the other hand I will cut you off for transfers and charge you, say for using natural goods from your area, to take for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and not to pay you back, and it will go indefinitely. It can't go on forever, one day it comes on the charge. By getting involved in that chain circuit, you've now gotten involved and you've brought yourself into one situation so you don't know what you want. You have proposed a law to which you have accepted amendments for each member, only to pass the law. That's how important that is to you. I said in the principle debate -- there's a dilemma here that's worse, who's proposing or who's going to accept this. Now you don't know who's proposing or who's accepting it. This is how you want to edit local self-government. This is ridiculous. Now look, Mr Dinkic, part of your discussion Mr Krasic supported in principle the discussion, here I agree with you. Take a look at this - municipal tax in Surdulica for the "Cola" factory "Rose" 8.360,000. That's what's gonna stay because you didn't allow it to be compensated for using water and exploiting water in my municipality, so part of the funds is returned to local self-government. Then, Mr. Dinkich, here's Knauf, 7.315,000. And you're talking about a positive investment climate, promoting liberal capitalism, of course the cost of the state, financing jobs from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then a potential investor comes in and looks at the public fees in a municipality where he has to invest and 7,000,000 has to pay only for the company, just to highlight the company. Why would he come here? But where gentlemen from G 17 plus have an interest, it is not disputed that the company pays 7,000,000, because they get 10,000 euros per job where they have a political interest. These are the absurds in which the state lives today. I'm not defending these companies, and I don't mind local self-government charging them for this, but this isn't good. There is a basis for both state and local self-government and much more than through the company but on behalf of resource use and on who knows how much else. How seriously you have approached this, Mr. Dinkic, we are deeply convinced that this will neither experience its application nor live. It's better that way. You can't take a flat, superficial, populism to define the way local self-government will finance itself. That's ridiculous. You will only further deepen the gap, as you wanted in 2007, when you reduced the tax on earnings from 14% to 12%, and introduced an untaxable part, as you then wanted to be well-intentioned to employers, you essentially made a regression and an ejaculation in the local self-governments that were most threatened. Not to mention the lack of the tax system, the tax services of the local administration that collects taxes and states that kill those taxes. These are all problems, but you have a bigger problem, Mr Dinkic, to announce and implement a comprehensive regulation reform because you know how big and what kind of work it is, because it is a job that really requires effort, consensus and engagement. You go out with 10 members of the law in the Assembly and in two nights that law changes completely to support it. I'm asking you, since you boasted about half a million signatures, how did you collect them? Here, I listen day by day, especially in companies where the directors were placed on the political line from your party, how you collected them in companies that you funded jobs -- from the state budget. So, as much as there's a real number, that's another thing now. Now I ask you, half a million votes or citizens, did they support the law that you have proposed to them or the law now proposed by the Democratic Party? You can't play with the state like that. The essence of decentralisation is to challenge the will of the central government. Go to Vranje today to see the will of your political party in Vranj, how public works are abused. I don't care, you're also complaining about your coalition partners, but we all suffer there, and the position and opposition because you can't get the opportunity to participate in public works if you're not from G 17 plus and then that political party promotes decentralisation. Here's an example for you to show the definition that you want to depoliticalize and decentralisation. Mr Dinkic, we live neither in Bulgaria nor in Romania nor in Turkey nor in America, we live here. The consequences of your handling this country, not only your own, that you don't understand me, but the ruling majority in the last 10 years, we feel fat on our skin. The bottom line of the story is to break up with the policy, politics from today to tomorrow, a policy that has not yet projected Serbia in the next 10 years. Mr Dinkic, your ministers are introducing tax measures that they say we will apply for a year, so if they show up as good, they will be the basis for tax reform. Is that the concept you support? Is this a concept of sustainable development? Or, a year after certain subsidies and government measures were applied, you tell us – you know what, these measures didn't work, now we have to do others? Where's the responsibility for something like that? To whom? For what? Today we hear that through vaccines, who knows how much money has been robbed. That's why local self-government couldn't win, because it was stolen on the other side. Mr. Dinkic, my question to you, if I'm wrong that you've made a latent budget rebalance, and these have agreed to it, where's the money for this? Tell us which public goods and services provide the republican level of government to suffer because of your need to give more money to local self-government. We're taking it from the same register. Or are you counting on this loan that you plan to take from 700m euros in September of the month? Not credit, but through bonds and through charters – 500 million for euro bonds and 200 million for dinars. Explain that to us. Tell us what in the state will suffer to carry out your political whim or ambition in practice. The state is serious and requires much more serious, both action and engagement. If you were already ready to accept the amendments, so it was human and correct for you to sit down with your coalition partners and agree on the law and come out in this assembly, not to be laughed at by the public and the opposition and part of your colleagues from the coalition you are sitting in, only they are not allowed to do so publicly. This is more and the birds know what it is and what it's about. I can argue with that, but the state has no right to these adventures anymore because you've led her to the bottom. Compared to 2001, this country is three times in charge because it pays for such adventures, the adventures of all of you who have been ruling since 2000. Mr. Dinkic, you and your political option have controlled it, the most essential segments of this country and this society for the last 10 years. Maybe the biggest political responsibility for the problems we're in, you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56490	Thank you. The word is proposed, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56491	I must disappoint you, since we know exactly what we want and I must disappoint you, this finding of yours is incorrect. Look a little bit better, turn on the analysis, we've accepted basically only two amendments. Both amendments we accepted were amendments to the Permanent Conferences of Cities and municipalities, which were submitted by DS MPs, because in the previous debate there were many words why the positions of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities were not respected. We think it's better, in a situation where local self-government is finally getting serious resources that belong to them through the decentralisation process that we're proposing to limit the company's assets. I'm not running away from it. We have suggested that companies limit themselves to a maximum of two average salaries in the city where they are realised, but then people from the Standing Conference of Cities said that would endanger the independence of local self-government, so they suggested that 0.2% of the total revenues be introduced, some of the solutions we were against. In the end, I decided to accept this amendment for reasons to show which local self-governments are mature and which deserve further support from voters, those set up by the local self-governments, who are not up to the task. If the current administration in Surdulica really is such that it imposes so many company companies, then I guess it will lose the next election and I guess someone will come and cut the company. I can tell you that in cities and municipalities run by the URS companies are low. In Loznica there are 80,000 dinars of the largest company. If that's true that Coca-Cola is eight million or seven million, I won't doubt it, your data is probably accurate, so let the citizens go to the polls and let the current local government change in the next election. I think we should get a situation where investors will make sure they invest in places where they have local self-governments that accept them and who are interested in getting as many people employed as possible, that as much money as possible from the profit tax stays in them, which we are proposing now, or through the company mechanism, they will charge them for something they don't need. I can understand that local self-government was under extortion in times of crisis, when they didn't get transfers that followed them by law, to raise companies. After the adoption of this law, when they get twice as much as a profit tax, I have absolutely no reason for high-ranking companies anymore, and we will appeal to all local self-government to reduce them. If they do not reduce them, and they do not listen to the appeal, then let them be punished by the voters in the elections. We'll campaign against these local self-governments, no matter who's in charge of them. In those cities where the people of the URS are mayors and presidents of municipalities, a guaranteed company will no longer be the main source of income. Today, they were a source of income of only 2% of total local income. Now, when the 80% income tax remains in the cities where it was created, there is no reason not to encourage entrepreneurs, because the more entrepreneurs hire workers, than the 80% of the income tax that remains, will remain the municipality. Logics, a healthy brain will force the mayor to cut down on the company. There's no need to limit it by law. It's the apropo of these first remarks. The only fundamentally real amendment we've accepted, not because it's just a form and because it's our coalition partners, but because I personally who wrote this law saw that I made a mistake, because I think it's a mistake to admit when it's made, is that when it's distributed within certain groups, it doesn't need to be divided linearly between individual municipalities in individual groups. So it's the only essential amendment we've accepted, not to get the same money from Ariel. That, for example, was the president of the municipality of Arilla as an argument and she was right. I thank her for that intervention. Ariel cannot get as much as Novi Sad from the transfer of solidarity, regardless of both municipalities, or cities in the first group of development. So, we have accepted the amendment to break down the criteria by a special regulation, that within the same group of development, the transfer of solidarity in the larger volume is given to those municipalities that are less developed. It's the only fundamental amendment to this law that we've adopted, along with this, for the firm, is two essential ones. All these others are of a technical nature. You can see the imagery with, I don't know, the law-making nomenclature. We've accepted about five, six such amendments. Of course, this amendment for Belgrade to voluntarily deny that it does not want 80% of the income tax, but the amount of 70%, that is something that was agreed before we entered the Sar Assembly by debate. Of course, you've brought up some things that don't apply just to this law. I have to say the introduction of an untaxable part of the profit tax has been a good change and today I think it's good, because it exists in all the legislation where it wants to stimulate labour intensive branches, or people who have lower incomes, that employers can make them on a larger non-taxable basis to get into a situation where they can pay more profits. As for the question of who will suffer, you have also asked that question – those who have seized money from local self-government should now pay back money to these local self-governments. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who is it? It's the Republic. It is the Republic that has been the last 20 years, and in your time when you were in power... (Zoran Krasic, from the place, where were you? ) At your time when you were in power, centralism was introduced. You heard Mr. Shami's debate, in the early 1990s, Serbia essentially centralized finance and property was completely concentrated in the Republic Property Directorate. After 20 years of serious centralisation of Serbia, this law will allow... (President: I apologize. Mr. Krasic, do I need to remind you that there is no throwing, or in any other way, the distraction of any speaker in this honored home? I must warn you not to do this. Thank you. ) (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Can you listen to him? ) Since your party is centralised because it has in practice introduced centralism in the 1990s, I understand why you are against decentralisation. But don't say decentralisation is wrong. I appreciate your ideological attitude. You can keep it. By the way, who prevented you from putting up with, say, laws to limit the amount of the company, what are you talking about now, or, say, this, to keep some of the water in Surdulica for some of those water benefits in the municipality? If you ask me if I support it, that more than those environmental benefits remain with local self-government, I support it. If you ever suggest it, the U.R.S. will vote for it. But you can't just talk about it. And make some concrete suggestions. Enter the congregation with some concrete proposal, don’t just criticise it. As for the question of who will essentially cut costs to get more local self-government, there are no dilemmas. The central budget, the republican budget will have to cut expenditures and this, as follows – 40 billion dinars get local self-government more than taxes. The Republic has several ways to reduce expenditure and make this law fiscally neutral. First, all non-road republican expenditures of local character should be abolished. At this point, there are 15 billion just in the account of a republican budget with no directors, no agencies, no public enterprises. All financing of republican public enterprises and local character projects should be further abolished. That's what we've said many times. That extra 10 billion dinars can be saved. Also, given that anti-crisis measures have begun to be abolished during this year, there can be 11 billion dinars left to be saved. It is very easy for the Republic to deprive 40 billion dinars of expenditure in the budget next year, not only in the budget but also in the consolidated account and to essentially compensate for all that it has passed on to local self-government through greater participation in the income tax. So, the Republic has derailed local self-government for three years, and now it is time for them to get their money back, and to carry out their own rationalisation of the republican administration that has always been addressed, because centralists always care only about what will happen to the central budget, but not worry about budgets on local self-governments. This law can provide fiscal internality, and it is not provided to members of this law, but to the Budget Law and other accompanying laws to be proposed in the Assembly when the time comes. Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56492	Thank you. You have no right to a replica on any basis, but the word can be obtained by Mr. Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56493	First of all, Mr. Dinkic, you said something that doesn't match the truth, which is that the SRS is not for decentralisation. We are not for this concept of decentralisation, but in order to implement it, you must first understand what it means. According to decentralisation, you can't define yourself daily-political. You can't be decentralisation when you leave the government and fiscal-political centralization when you're sitting in government. It's really degutant that you're going back to the '90s. In the 1990s, the SRS was in power for two years. You've been in power since 2000, which is 10 or 11 years in power. Now I ask you, Mr Dinkic - why didn't you propose this in 2002? You see, Mr. Dinkic, these are the reasons when coalition partners don't accept such a proposal, these are the reasons to bring down the government. For all those years, Mr. Dinkic, you were ready to tear down the government when you don't get your staff set up as director of the hospital in Nis. Am I lying? There are colleagues here, and there are from Nis. These were the motives for you and your political option to bring down the government, not that coalition partners or opposition partners have possibly not proposed some law that would look like decentralisation. Please don't. Now you're informing us that we need to get the money back and that's what those who took it should do. Why didn't it occur to you when you inherited the republican budget through the NIP? I told you that night - do you know what crazy projects from the NIP funded by those who ran it and their local partners? I told you nicely, be my guest in Surdulica, to take you to a place where your NIP has funded a sewerage that for two or three years can't get a technical reception, because it's done the opposite of the project that you've funded, and in the end that sewerage is technically reduced to a water stream that's going through the whole city. It poisons the city and everything down the valley that goes towards South Moravi – and in one village, and in another village and so on. Now I ask you - where is political, if there is no other responsibility for such missed things? Now you're teaching us that someone needs to get that money back to local self-government. The local self-government is the government you've committed for 10 years she's been taking. It's correct to say - I'm part of the government that did it and I want to repent. I'm offering something new. Mr. Dinkic, I told you, I am talking to you, and I mean your political option or the concept that you belong to, everything you bring out in this assembly is no longer measured through weight or through the meaning of what you said, but only through the legacy of the political that is behind you. You have a political and economic chaos behind you and you know it well, from the Shop to this. You're talking about profit tax, 71 thousand jobs lost in the previous year. Where do jobs are being obtained today in Serbia, where do you finance the jobs from the state register? Is that the liberal capitalism that you're politically seeking, liberal capitalism about the cost of the state? It's some new economic model and some new economic concept. Perhaps in economic theory you will prove it and I really don't know, I will support it if you convince me that it's right, but there are few of those from the world of economics who welcome and support it. What's the trade going to get from the profit tax, what's Vlad's Han getting from a profit tax when no one's living does? Let the game and the statistics and what I know, that you take into account the people who work on the government's register, the state budget, and that's why you make the average salaries. I've told you nicely, 1,900 dinars in Lebanon is the average salary per capita, i.e. receiving per capita. And now in these municipalities, one of these is supposed to be expected. I did not dispute the tax reduction from 14 to 12 that it was not a good stimulating measure, and that the non-taxable part was not stimulating, but I said it caused a problem on the other side and a regression in the tax revenues of the most vulnerable municipalities, because of the inequitable state of irresponsibility and not changing income-gathering model on that basis, because of such opportunities, and I did not dispute that the economy was given the chance to dissipate employers. And that all suffers from local self-government. Don't convince us of something you haven't been ready to change in ten years and act differently. I also have to mention something you said - mature local self-government, so whoever doesn't get a good communal tax will lose power. Why would citizens be against local self-government that's gonna charge Coca-Cola eight million dinars because the state doesn't charge her anything and doesn't pay her back. Such a power will be welcomed by the citizens, but because of such utility cabs, no one will invest in that municipality anymore, because it has an unpredictability. What do they know to whom all things and when to pay? And when the model of functioning of local self-government systemically sets up on companies and communal taxes, then you have the state we live in, the country where the biggest regional differences are, the country where the depopulation is on a level that I don't know exactly where I come from. As for the permanent conference of cities, Mr Dinkic, this is a summary, I have told you the proposals and concepts of permanent competition of cities - what are the measures to be done to implement decentralisation in Serbia? Here, Mr Dinkic, you have a list of 22 laws to open up the debate and change them to implement the concept of decentralisation according to their model. What you're proposing is partial, this is the only thing that this has is media capacity, but after actions and everything you've organized as a political party and part of the government in this country, I really believe this is going to be a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56494	Thank you. The word is proposed by Mr Mladjan Dinkic, and then, I just have to inform you, Mr Milenić Saša, Krasic Zoran, Jovanovic Cedomir, Chikiriz Mirko, because I have to delete the list, but that is the order in which I will give the word. Here you go, Mr. Dinkick.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56495	Since you do not support the effect of the law on the Lebanese, I will give you concrete information on what the citizens of Lebanon will benefit from this law. You said, "What can Leban use that will have twice as much as a profit tax in a municipality where a lot of people are unemployed?" Lebane today makes 46 million dinars of profit tax, and it will come about after the adoption of this law 93 million, 92.8. That's twice as much, that's one benefit. However, Lebanese will have a larger transfer from the Republic than it does today, leaving nearly 185 million dinars in Lebanon more than this year or 71%. So Lebane will have 71% of the budget after the adoption of this law. If you think that's irrelevant, that's irrelevant, you could have suggested a solution that would allow Lebanon to be even more funded. This is something that, in my opinion, is real and every municipality in Serbia, whether it is small or large, will benefit from this law. Once again, large cities and municipalities will primarily benefit from double their participation in profit tax, while small and poor municipalities will have, in addition, an additional transfer of solidarity with an existing non-intentional transfer that does not decrease. The most they get are municipalities like Lebanese in a relative sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56496	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Milenic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56497	There is one important place in the literature to quote a certain abbey terrace saying that "many books would be bigger if it could be smaller". On the occasion of the amendment's discussion, the same principle may seem to be applied to me and my attention to listening to the proposal's argument would be maintained longer if the discussion in addition to the amendment's proposal could be shorter. At first, it seemed to me that the SRS amendment was talking about fiscal policy and the problem of organising the funding of local self-government budgets. My attention, by that false assumption from the beginning, has seen the following problems. The URS parliamentary group, as a promoter of changes and additions, insists on the transfer and adjudicated revenues of local self-government, in that part of the income paid by citizens. This is the subject of which the legislative contribution towards decentralisation is given by the promoter. You have also drawn attention to the problem of the original incomes of local self-government for which, if you have listened to the explanation, you have said that we expect that the increase on this side will create motives for local self-government to act in a stimulating way on economic development in the local environment, including one more responsible tax policy on the domain of original incomes, there can only be some form of tax policy to demonstrate local self-government. You took the firm's narrow theme, which was terribly surprising, because it's an unusually small part of the budget revenues of local self-government, an extremely small one, which is nowhere near worthy of such big words and a heated debate in the national parliament. In the case of the town of Kragujevac, if we speak, only 2% of the Kragujevac budget comes from that source and what it actually looks like to you, Mr Dinkic mentioned, in the town of Kragujevac, thereby competing with local self-government, the ability to make quality, disciplined, stimulating by the economic performance of the decision in the area. The town of Kragujevac not only distinguishes action in its decision and depends on the type of activity, but also respects the zoning criteria for actions of the same activity. It can't be the same tax on that basis, depending on where the part of the city is located. What you should know, for manufacturing activities, it turns out to be two to three thousand dinars a month, which is not such a significant income. Of course, in the extra zone of the city for the service of industry, entertainment conditionally said, bars, exclusive bars where traffic is much higher, where incomes are much higher, there goes up to hundreds of thousands on an annual level, but still with conditions paid in 12 months of war and all of this implies benefits that should act incentivically on the overall development of activity. But it was only later that I realized, what Josip Pejakovic said as "I see them beating me", saying that this amendment does not make any sense in the ambition to improve the text of the law in question, but to open a political arena and shorts based on the basics which, as we have seen, are hardly related to the company's and the original incomes of local self-government. In that sense, then, with a sense of chivalrousism that doesn't allow me to give a particularly heavy blow to the SRS, you remember that I used to be happy, but I think after so many blows she's suffered, I don't want to add anything new to it, but I have to say this. There's no point in the business of decentralisation running the URS, which you're well aware of that we've been a little ahead of in relation to so-called. The democratic bloc and the government coalition, nor our ambition to take down the government as you would like. That is to be said to the public, it is the reason for the opposition criticism of the bill, which shows that a pro-government parliamentary group is ahead and the opposition is looking for a chance to convince it to go to the government with it. We explicitly told you that through this act, we demonstrate a high sense of political responsibility. We want to go through a people's initiative together with citizens and all political entities, in the process of learning that emancipation of reform, development and progress are certain. We demonstrate maximum responsibility and therefore towards these exhibitions of day-to-day political supersede, our thought does not wander at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56498	Thank you. Mr. Krassic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56499	Can I, Mr. Novakovic, from the time of the MPs' group? Thank you very much. It's very simple to answer these things. If you hadn't asked for a change in article 15, there wouldn't have been an amendment to the SRS, so this is all you've been saying, for nothing. That's one thing. The other thing is, I'm sorry about only one man in this room. A man teaches students local self-government, I don't know how he's going to vote for your bill, Mr. Dinkic. He's probably gonna sweat, torture, etc. I don't know any experts in this country who are dealing with local self-government who would tell you anything good about not only the law, but also these changes between us. Secondly, the best law on local self-government was passed when Gordana Pop-Lazic was the minister of local self-government and Zarko Obradovic was her deputy. If you don't believe me, read the books, and ask the professors who teach local self-government. I'd just like to draw your attention to the extremely nice provisions regarding local self-government in KIM territory. That's another thing. The third thing, Mr. Dinkic, is that you in the Assembly can't demonstrate the situation without talking to Dacic. You've been with Dacic for three and a half years in close coalition relations. Have a nice sit-down and set up what happened in 1991. Don't make me defend Slobodan Milosevic and these others now. You've shown a high dose not to be disgusted by that 1991 policy, I don't know why you're showing it now. However, you always show when you need to leave the government to bring down the government. Mr Dinkuqu, we are asking for the issue of resolution to be raised, i.e. the vote to change this Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have 56 signatures. It would be good if you gave us four signatures and we could take this government down. Why? Here, let me remind you, when Boris Tadic goes abroad, he just apologizes publicly. Who knows what he was doing when he was young abroad. In 2011, Mr. Dinkic, you started with all your apologies. "I'm sorry, citizens, I cheated on you for actions, I'm sorry, I cheated on you for the Law on the financing of local self-government, I'm sorry, I didn't give you money for local self-government from the 2009 budget in 2011, I'm sorry, I made Zajecar and Valjevo argue over the alleged investment "Gorenja" and "Gorenje" doesn't give a penny, but gives the state of Serbia for every opening place of 10,000 euros." You're practically just apologizing today. When it comes to who gets it, everyone gets it. How can everyone win if they're just dividing 1.7% of GDP? How's everybody gonna get it? Everyone's gonna get a lot more. Then it'll go over 1.7% of GDP. That part of non-purpose transfers, of course, that's what I mean, I don't mean the original revenues. You know, the whole story is amazing. Mr. Dinkic takes out some sheet, it's called sheet, large paper and municipalities, and then the sections, the columns, the columns, the columns, and then, what he says, the G17 Plus expert team, led by Bojan Krist, has done a deep analysis and came to a conclusion - this change increases from 40 to 90 million, and here instead of getting 180 million, it gives so much and so much. It was the same for free action. It was the same for free action. The only argument – paper, good feelings, good wishes, etc. Of course, and Hope, Hope believed it. I don't mind people believing your stories. I don't have any problems. Five million trusted you for action, all chasing the poor to enroll, to get 1,000 euros each. They count, the bow ate, the bow smelled, the younger gives 1,000 euros, I vote for it. You know? Just like the ones at Bora. They said this - we don't care, the young man runs RTB "Bor", if we vote for them, the Republic has money coming in "Bor", "Bor" and this way can't make any money for water, or electricity, everyone's nice, touch system at work. But you know what, people, you always put that line, so it's drawn, so you see -- plus, plus, plus, minus, minus, minus, minus, let's see where we are. Mr Dinkic saw that in the event of a further campaign, this authority can say – please, it is Kostunica's 2006 law. It has nothing to do with DS. Who was the main protagonist? Where Kostunica dared to say that at Junior's, I wouldn't say that. There is a permanent conference of cities, but a permanent conference of cities, remember, 151 municipality presidents, two years of screaming, moaning against republican authorities, Democrats against Democrats, G17 against G17, and they say - the crisis. Then those from the permanent conference say – well if there is a crisis, but why should the burden of the crisis fall on local self-government only. "Nothing, you're the only one in charge. We have up to 45% of GDP, more space, we can borrow." They've been doing well in debt, so they've been finely petting money, so you've turned these transfers into extra campaigns, so Pajkic's asphalting, so they're building machines. You call us, you whine here, you moan at us that it's impossible for local self-government from three or four sources to fund some jobs. The NIP is funding local self-government. Who made the NIP? You made the NIP, no one else made the NIP. You thought you'd be there your whole life, so for a little while, Gilas came in, so when the money was to be distributed, let's go over here, let's go over there, and then Kalanovic's nice story with crocodile tears about 40 undeveloped municipalities, so she'll intervene there, etc. Who invented the Ministry of Capital Investment? Zoran Krasic? It wasn't Zoran Krasic who invented it, it was you who invented it. When was it in Serbia that the ministry was the head of finance for all possible things? And they're funding. Of course, that party wants to go to the voters, too. That party she's holding, and she doesn't want to touch the voters. Where are the dedicated and functional transfers through some ministries? Of course they want education, of course they want health care and all kinds of affair. It's an affair. Wherever you've done, your tracks are always an affair. The affair to the affair. It's always someone else's fault. Mr. Stevanov told you, you went with one bill, collected 500,000 signatures. Now you're saying -- that's the same one, just a little bit changed. Well, it's not exactly the same, nor has it changed so little, but you've just masked the situation that's about to arise. Belgrade will continue to take great funds, but you have achieved an amazing miracle, and Belgrade is in charge. There is no session of the City Assembly not to make decisions on this bridge, and 20 million, and 50 million, and so many millions, and so many millions. You think with the story that the Babusnica should hate Belgrade. You finish the job and you show up here as rescuers, Robin Hood. Everybody's gonna win, everybody's gonna win twice as much. How is it possible to get twice as much? Where will it be taken from? Wherever you take, you're making no well, but a black hole, a sinkhole. We read in the paper that you are the best finance minister in the world. Some tabloid, a yellow newspaper wrote. We've read a lot of things here, but it's time to get the line down. So, Mr. Dinkic, Dacic's haste to hold hands and ask him what kind of centralization he was in 1991? As far as I'm concerned, I am for centralization and for the high degree of local self-government guaranteed by the Constitution and by the law, but respected. But you don't. You guys can do a little dirty, if you can do it in black. Come on, a little con here, come on, a little con over there. Watch how ridiculous the situation is. Now Ciric is opening the plants, and his background is Mladjan Dinkic. You're still stuck with those helmets over there, etc. What are you taking pictures of? Well, how come you're not under the honor of being your student boss? No, I can't have surgery coming out of the government – I'm destroying the government, but I'm raising my popularity to catch a connection to continue to be in the government, because maybe we'll get that signature in 2020, and Mladjan Dinkic loves where the money is, he loves it. What happened to the vaccines? What about the privatisations? Are we going to open up a question that you've all asked in broken privatisations and in these companies is a representative of state capital? Are we finally going to close the story with the airport, with Bojan Krishna, with the state lottery, with the "mobi 63" with Cyprus? The time has come to draw the line, the time has come, no more delays. You've been in power for 11 years, except for those often months when you were in conflict with Zoran Djindjic, when Lucky was a little nervous, as you say. You don't mind Bosko Nicic now, and in 2002 what did Bosko Nicic do to you? Now you have a golden Bosko Nicic. What's that glue that calms blood enemies? What's that all about, pro-Europeans? Money, just money. Whoever has the money has the power, he has the power. You're going to disburse public enterprises and state service from politics? You convince us, you convince us! Say, people, for the past five or six years, could he have been employed in health care if he wasn't a member of the G17 or by accident DS? Why were you in a fight about health care? Now you've made up a new topic. We all win, you know it best in Serbia when you go with the parole, we all win, we all earn, and no one knows who loses. Our central problem is a small gross social product. Our central problem is that there are no funds at all levels of government. Our central problem is that you don't know priorities and all that under one hat, like people to steal, people what's wrong with you? Since the Law on Public Procurement was passed, crime has increased 300%. Why? The law was not brought in to prevent crime, but to channel itself, to go into certain hands exactly, and therefore, 800m euros disappear every year. It's not what Zoran Krasic invented, it's what you're being watched, what you do moritoring over you, you're like test rabbits, you know in glass they're watching you through that glass, "and it's good today. Write it down. Tomorrow, let's see the move, it's good, let go of the air, move, well, cut some air" etc. I don't mind if you act like one, but don't make the whole of Serbia be a test rabbit. That's why we're here today, to stamp this 11-year-old policy towards the EU and NATO pact for all time. Imagine, people, on 11 June, the Serbian Army sent its members to a polygon at Slunj, Eugen, Quaternik, I don't know what it is called, under the auspices of the NATO Pact, military exercise, the participation of the United States, Albania, Croatia, Kosovo, or Macedonia and Montenegro, says they are preparing for a peace mission in Afghanistan. That's what the state of Serbia is funding. Our army is going to military exercises on the Quaternik polygon, preparing for Afghanistan, and here we are sworn by those who swore to the Constitution that we will never send ours to Afghanistan, etc. Who can trust you? I only claim my legitimate right not to trust you, and every day I prove more and more to the citizens that I am very right not to trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56500	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56501	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to get answers from you, Mr. Dinkic, to the issues you presented in the previous discussion. Namely, you are an explanation, a fundamental lack of your law, and that is the expenditure side that remains in complete fog, which is the reason for continued criticism and the Fiscal Council and the IMF said that it will be very easy to find funds on that dispensary side that should be lowered by 40 billion dinars. When it's that easy, can you tell us what it's like, Mr. Dinkich? You said fiscal neutrality couldn't be secured by this law, and that's perfectly clear. We criticise you because this law collapses fiscally, what such neutrality has been established by the Budget Law, in which there are no 40 billion that you can find only in such general thesis that you represent. You mentioned that the municipalities had been abolished in the last three years. Why'd you cut them off? Why did your ruling coalition cut them off? Is it because it was a whim, because the municipalities were insubordination, or because there was no money? Because there's no money. Then you stated how anti-crisis measures were lifted. Mr Dinkic, they're being abolished because we're in debt under the IMF agreement, and you've been negotiating with him, too, to bring the deficit down from 4.1 to 3.2. Practically, we need to reduce that public spending by 20% next year without covering, and this same IMF that you've agreed with, day by day, is asking you for what our MP group is asking for. To introduce us to this ease that you can only transfer the Republic to some local projects to find 40 billion dollars, or dinar, or 400 million euros, in transfers that have not been real so far, because these businesses that have been doing these jobs are normally in debt. But I'll tell you that "Serbian Roads" is one of the most indemnified public enterprises, only because they can't pay for jobs in which they hired a construction operation that solved some local infrastructure problems. So there's nothing out of fiscal neutrality and this debate proves it. There are more MPs than the ruling coalition in the O.R. You don't have a majority for this law. Or you will get a majority for something else -- the majority for the survival of a ruling coalition that will prove by voting for a law that compromises not only you in advance but also those who have agreed to such a policy, so it is clear that this will last as long as the ruling coalition does. I think we'll all be talking about this bill in the budget law, just like we're talking about today's famous law on free share of action. How did the Conference of Cities and municipalities change their attitude yesterday? Does that ring a bell, Mr. Dinkich? And with what argument? Who had to come to the Presidency of the Conference of Cities and municipalities and ask for a statement that should be introduced to this debate and to provide some kind of legitimacy? What is the amendment you agreed to, Amendment DS, under which projects at the level of local self-government considered of local importance cannot be financed in the coming year? What kind of "local project" is that? So far, what projects of local importance have been financed in this area so far that we can say that the state cost 400m euros? We expected you to understand what all reasonable people understood, which is that the limits of your political interest must not cross that reasonable line after which much more important interests are threatened than the interests of one party or one NGO that gathers more parties. It is a topic for your MP Milenic, who, with his tirad here, cannot actually conceal the fact that Kragujevac, as well as several other municipalities in Serbia, is in that exclusive position to be able to count on a new inflow of funds, given that they have so far practically dried up, I mean sources. Remember 2008 and 30m euros spent in the Kragujevac election campaign and everything that happened in the meantime. If people in Kragujevac have benefited from it, then it's an honor. But the way this benefit is achieved has nothing to do with their interests but the political interests of a coalition that survives in the city. So you reveal this ease with which you will change the cost side of the budget and find 40 billion in it that puts great pressure on the fiscal system that is agreed upon. No fiscal neutrality without that explanation. And the fact that you're not taking it out publicly, it's just a matter of fact that no one in the ruling coalition would vote for that law if he realized that in the election campaign he had to lose funds. It's not decentralisation, stop talking nonsense. This is the redistribution of money, the spilling from hollow to empty. decentralisation implies transfer of rights from central authorities to local self-government. Those rights that are continuously taken from Slobodan Milosevic's arrival to power in 1987 through the country's constitutional reform in 1989, and then through a whole series of laws that were passed during the 1990s, in order for local self-government to subdue at the time the country's government won the country's opposition. The last law was passed in 1996, when the municipalities seized property. Here, find that 40 billion on the loose end and you'll get LDP support. But without it, there's nothing. No, thank you, it's easier than admitting that there's no such thing, because support for LDP can't be obtained to remain in power. That will be paid by Boris Tadic. Three months of the survival of his coalition will pay in such a way. Both he and Dacic and everyone else who will then, as they know, explain to the people that what is clearly predicated to failure is possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56502	Just tell me, is he from the time of the parliamentary group or the head of the parliamentary group? So, from the time of the authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Thank you. The word is proposed, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56503	I'll explain for the tenth time. Since you ask the same question ten times, I'll answer you ten times. If you ask 20 times, I'll answer that question 20 times. You're a really great rhetoricist, I don't have any objections to your rhetoric, but why don't you ever suggest something, you're a practitioner? You're just criticizing, never making any suggestions and criticizing again. You get an explanation and you criticize again. Criticism never ends. They don't benefit from criticism. The benefits of citizens can have some practical works. Of course, criticism is welcome, but if criticism only comes down to criticism itself, it's counterproductive. It's quite clear why you, too, Mr. Jovanovic, and everyone else who's told me so far are attacking me. Not because this is not good for local self-government, all of the mayors, all of the presidents of the municipalities know what this actually brings to them, but it is wrong for you that the political benefits of this can be given to the United Regions of Serbia, because we have proposed this. I don't mind if you as an LDP suggested this, I'd vote for you. I would not criticise you in this situation why you are proposing something that is good for Serbian cities and municipalities, but I would say – good for you, Jovanovic, good for you to think of doing something that I am not, it's good for you to be in front of me, I want to follow you. But you didn't do it and others didn't. All those who fire these criticisms these days don't actually think about cities and municipalities but think about their parties. Let's speak in a language that's understandable. So, all those who are against this law are not concerned about the central budget, about public finances, but are concerned about what will be the result of cities and municipalities winning on a proposal from the United Regions of Serbia. It's purely political criticism and I understand it as a politician, but essentially it has no use. Now, from a professional point of view, I'm going to give you an answer on how to secure these 40 billion dinars. First of all, I didn't notice in the last three years that you specifically raised your voice against the government's decisions to suspend local self-government every year for 50 billion dinars every year until this debate. Did you notice that the government did it with the blessing of the IMF? So the government didn't do it without the blessing of the IMF. So when 50 billion dinars were taken away from Serbia's municipalities and cities with the blessing of the IMF, it was normal and no one objected. Now that we propose to return that money to Serbian cities and municipalities, that's the problem now. (John Andric, from the scene: The Story of Falseness.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56504	Excuse me, Mr. Dinkich. Mr. Andric, it's forbidden to throw or interfere in any way. Don't yell and yell at me or discuss with me. (John Andric, from the place: Give me a warning, don't lecture me.) ) I give you my first warning for disturbing speakers, throwing them into the process and disrespecting attempts to explain to you why this is not allowed because it says so in the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, Mr. Dinkich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56505	You really don't have to listen to what I'm saying, 'cause when you guys talk, I don't talk, I don't throw. When other MPs speak, I don't speak a word. If you can't listen to what I'm saying, it shows your culture. It bothered you when I was a minister and when I was answering, you said, "The Minister can answer that tone in that way." Now it bothers you when I answer you the same way you're telling me. I don't know, if I were on the moon, you'd mind me answering you from the moon. So that's just what it is, but you're not going to change me into who I am. So let me answer what you asked professionally for the tenth time. It is true that cities and municipalities through twice as much money as taxes will receive 40 billion dinars. Who will have to bear the costs of decentralisation, because this is, Mr. Jovanovic, fiscal decentralisation? It'll have to be a republican budget. Why do you regret the Republic budget? Do you think the Republic is doing everything rationally, do you think there's no room to cut the costs of the republican budget? I'm telling you that I can and I'll give you examples as I can. It is impossible first that this law, the Law on the financing of local self-government, predicts what will be reduced in the republican budget by 80% of the income tax staying at the place. This is the subject of the Budget Law adopted by this Assembly. It may also be subject to the Law on budget rebalancing or budgeting for 2012. You asked what local projects were on the republican budget. They are currently held by almost all ministries, both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Youth Sport and Culture, Education, Health and other ministries, have a total of around 14 billion dinars of expenditure that are exclusively local. The Republic today has expenditure in the local character budget, not expenditure on national projects, on regional projects, but on various local projects. Through this, the Republic gives two billion dinars a year to transfer to local municipal public enterprises. I don't understand why the Republic is giving transfer to local utility companies. Anyway, it wasn't at the time when I was the finance minister. I can tell you that while I was Minister of Finance, the Republic didn't give those transfers to local utility companies. I don't know what cities these transfers are in, which local utility companies, but what's for sure, when cities and municipalities get more money than taxes on profits, there's no need for the republic to have these 15 billion dinars of expenditure that it now has. Those expenditures can simply be removed from the republican budget. In this way 15 billion dinars of republican spending are abolished in favour of local self-government. Serbia's public company in its work programme treats repair or construction of streets in Pozarevc, Valjevo, in any city as a regional project. Many roads today are classified as regional even though they are essentially local. There can't be a regional road in Pogorevec, it's a local road. About 10 billion dinars of the "Serb Roads" can simply not implement more projects in cities and municipalities, as municipalities will have money from profit taxes to make them themselves. That way you get another 10 billion dinars of savings. We get to 25 billion out of 40. You said it yourself, and I agree with that, some of the measures that existed during the crisis, so-called. Anti-crisis measures, both on the IMF's proposal and on the government's proposal, are now being abolished. Some have already been abolished, no more subsidized credits for the liquidity of the economy, no more subsidized loans of another character. By removing anti-crisis measures, it only claims an additional 11 billion savings from the economy ministry. To sum up - 15 billion - abolishing the republican expenditures, 10 billion - "Serbian Ways", less expenditure for what they should not do than local self-government money that will now receive and 11 billion - abolishing anti-crisis measures only at one ministry, because I know it reliably, the economy ministry will not have those expenditures in the coming year, because these were the measures that were necessary during the crisis. Now there's no need for them anymore. If they are once planned in the budget, there is no need for them to be transferred to the budget for next year. We have an amount that is approximately equal to what is obtained from the income tax. There are four billion left that are easy to find at any ministry, because as finance minister, at least I can tell you during that period, the republic had no deficit. You are now expressing a legitimate fear of whether the republic will have a larger budget deficit. A good finance minister can make a republican budget that will make these measures fiscally neutral. I've made a proposal, I'm not the finance minister, if these measures we've proposed to adopt, and I'm going to talk to the IMF mission, I don't see any problem. I expect from you Mr. Jovanovic, in two years, you don't have to now, let these elections pass, to apologize when you see how this works in practice, and I'll apologize to you if this gives you bad effects. Let's agree on that, after the republican elections, when these passions break down, when there is no policy in the first plan, but essentially, go to Novi Becej, to Subotica, to Zrenjanin, to any other city and ask the mayors who are either Dinkic or the URS law was good or bad. If they say it was bad, I'll apologize to you in public. If they say it's good, I expect you to apologize to me in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56506	I know the subject is extremely interesting. To make a deal, certainly Mr. Andric has the right to the championship because of his Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, Mr. Jovanovic would have two basics, so let him choose which one he wants. Here you go, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56507	Thank you. You have violated Article 27, 103, and the basic rule of decency in the National Assembly that exists unwritten among us. I don't understand how you can lead this session of parliament. You have some formal right to it because you are one of the vice-presidents of the Assembly, but is it possible that the Democratic Party is so running away from you that it won't even lead a session of parliament, which she wanted to do on Thursday? You, Mr. Novakovic, have insulted us in daily newspapers that go out on the territory of Vojvodina, thus showing all the insolence and unscrupulousness you have as the person we now need to trust to lead the Assembly. I'll read you a piece of the text because I think all the MPs were sitting here right now. He says, "A dry LDP and a severe analysis of the amendments. Dinkic was able to mathematically explain to politicians from party structures in the Assembly." You want to apologize for this? He says, "The LDP mentions 1,000 euros, this attack has nothing to do with the course, but the vanity of their leader." Is this a debate about the arguments you're talking about and asking us to? That's the kind of cowardly thing you get out of here. Why didn't you tell us that here, but go and make statements to your reporters? You insult us through the daily papers in Vojvodina, and then now you expect to come here and pretend like everything's okay. It's not right, Mr. Novakovic. It's not right to do that. You cannot expect that you as the ruling party have the right to harass opposition MPs. You have no right to do that. Every action you take will be followed by a reaction. We're going to talk about the law of the proposal, but that kind of corruption that you can't tell us something here, but you keep quiet here, and then you go out and that statement in the paper won't go through Mr. Novakovic, regardless of the mask of decency you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56508	MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56509	Thank you, Vice President Comic. Mr Dinkic, I'm sorry, I can't agree to this proposal of yours in which we should, of course, meet somewhere in the future, so let's say to each other, I'm sorry, and that's that now. Like -- sorry about the five million people I pulled by my nose, what to do. We're talking to these people, Mr. Dinkic. I told you last time why we care about decentralisation. It's a prerequisite for modernization of the country. We have millions of people living in hostage status, unable to in any way influence their own life, their own destiny. That's why I've been talking about decentralisation for years. What do you expect from us? To spread ourselves here in parliament because you passed a law by which, instead of 40% of the municipality's taxes, 80 percent will be rerouted to municipalities that can't even charge 40 percent, in a country that has public finances of less than 1.4 billion euros? You don't only have a problem with LDP. Well, does the IMF criticise you for wanting to run and to lead you somewhere in Serbia's elections? Is that why he gave you the red card yesterday? Is the fiscal council criticizing your proposal with this motivation? Well, who does he support from those, if you are referring to the mind that we should have in front of us when we seek that understanding? Who? How are you talking about roads? What does that look like, Mr. Dinkich? You're not gonna categorize the roads in the country to depend on your personal attitude or mine? There's a law on that. When you analyze that law, then you see how sustainable that assumption of yours is. I don't mind the municipalities getting the money. We've always criticised budget solutions here. Thirty laws are in the Assembly that we have filed. How did we discuss when you changed the property tax law, for the third time in six months, that law changed? How did we react to the Excise Act? By proposing a new law immediately. Hundreds of initiatives since this party exists have been submitted in the Assembly, including on decentralisation, but on rights, the Constitution and reforms of the country. This threatens the thin foundation on which society stands today...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56510	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56511	I'm sorry, I meant as an authorised representative...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56512	I'm sorry, I've pointed right at the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56513	I'll finish. How do you find those billions? You'll take 14 because it goes there with some municipalities for some of their local needs. What are those needs? You're surprised that 15 billion go to public utility companies. You want me to tell you what companies these are? These are companies that have fallen apart, which cannot essentially fulfil their obligations, cannot collect their debts, their claims. It's these companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56514	People's MP, the time of the authorized representative has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56515	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56516	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56517	Okay, it's happening. There's nothing more to it than that. I'm telling you, how can you come up with the idea that you have for each municipality a very precise budget increase? And here, as a milling merchant, you don't take hostages from all sides of the budget. You say - this is no way to go. The law on that exists, the Law on Roads that says what a regional road is, what a local road is. You can't do that. Serbia's roads are not in charge, they are in charge because there is no money. If we're talking about decentralisation, let's talk about the essence, give rights to the municipalities. Pass on to them some obligations. If, in this way, a fundamentally important issue is compromised for the modernisation of the country, the idea of its reorganisation is compromised at all. How are we gonna do it tomorrow? You've sat down as you know you're going your own way, so now every bill. So is the Information Act. What are the effects of this law today? It doesn't apply. The law on the distribution of free shares is not applicable. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government will not apply from 1 January of next year. That's why we can't keep quiet about it. The only thing that is true is that you are solely personally politically motivated as the leader of a party that is trying to survive politically. It wasn't destroyed because of the LDP, it was because you worked for the past ten years. But I don't think we should tolerate your intention that because of the survival of a ruling coalition that depends on you, we agree to something that will completely destroy this country. It's our duty to take care of it. Here you are, so tell us -- how fiscal neutrality is ensured, as you have told us, to what extent the budgets of local self-government will increase. Of course, we were very critical of the budget for both this year and the previous three years, each time local self-government and local self-government were damaged, and Vojvodina and the Republic Health Insurance Institute and a whole series of other institutions that had defined rights on paper alone, and they couldn't achieve them. If you'd been here for the debate, you'd have heard us. What you are doing today makes the same sense as the discussion of the Chamber of Commerce Act two years ago, when we had to adopt a law that would enter into force in 2013. Enough of this nonsense, with the expectation of us agreeing to something like that. As you can see, there's nothing personal about this. You don't bother me at all. I appreciate your energy. I'm sorry that this energy cannot be used for the greater good, but it usually compromises anyone in your environment. That's why we can't be partners in this. If you wish to support us, please support us with a request that we have made very clear to you. Arrange within the framework of the institutions that exist in this country. The Council for the decentralisation of the Republic Government, the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government, the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, the Committee for Local Self-Government and Constitutional Affairs, within these institutions dialogue, the formulation of the platform, the debate in every municipality in Serbia, there is good decentralisation, there is a chance that people can affect their lives. Everything else is a division of money that is not available in the election campaign that will last as long as for the next six months, and then Serbia is due to go to Stecaci, as Bor leaves tomorrow, but it cannot pass with the consent of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56518	An apology to another MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. You broke up with me the second time. I'm really sorry, it wasn't intentional. National MP Mladjan Dinkic, the proposing's authorised representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56519	You keep talking about some money he doesn't have. I don't know if you understand, maybe you don't understand our proposal. Today it is charged from a tax on profits of 110 billion dinars. That money exists. We're just suggesting that 80% of that money remain for cities and municipalities. It's not an existing money, it's now an existing money that needs to be deployed more justly, so that instead of staying in the central register, it goes to local self-government, to cities and municipalities. So the money has, it's existing money. We're not looking for any extra money, we're looking for an existing one to get better distribution. That's one thing. The second thing, I don't know if you're aware of your double arches, because you're asking me about some filigree accounts on the bulky side of the republican budget, and when 50 billion were denied in these three years by local self-government, did you ask what kind of filigree central budget provides cities and municipalities to survive? You didn't care. You never said a single word about how Nis will manage or how Leskovac, any city in Serbia, will manage. When the republican budget was voted, no one said a word about what would happen to 170 towns and municipalities in Serbia that remain without transfers that belong to them under the law. Was it some sort of filigree that followed that transfer reduction? Did anyone wonder how the created deficits in the local registers would be shut down? Local deficits, it's apropo IMF, they didn't talk about it either, and they're inconsistencies in that, and they've given a blessing on abolishing and reducing the transfer of local self-government. They don't need to be praised for what they don't deserve. If the Republic government has reduced transfers to local self-government due to the crisis, this year 16 billion, and the IMF said – that's fine, none of you have said – what the IMF does, does not care about municipal budget deficits. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: We are. Maybe you are, but the MP club I'm talking to right now isn't. So that's the problem with centralism. There is no concern for the problems of municipalities and cities, only the central budget problem in Belgrade. That's what we want to change. This debate should show that it is equally important to us and what the budget of the Republic's local and budget is. However, if he could suffer the budget of the bar for three years, do you think it is not possible to download 40 billion to the Republic? If the municipalities have been stripped of 50 billion in the previous three years, why do you think it's some great sense to take down 40 billion dinars of expenditure to the Republic to make it fiscally neutral? We don't have a problem with the target. We advocate compliance with fiscal rules, fiscal neutrality. We're just saying -- as easy as it was, under quotes, to leave the municipalities without 50 billion in the last three years, it's as easy to leave the Republic without 40 billion in the following year. The Republic won't fail. You know what the republican budget, 850, 900 billion, depends on inflation, but these 40 billion will not endanger pensions or wages in the public sector. Those expenditures that are no longer required should be abolished. It is absolutely certain that a serious analysis could find much more than 40 billion expenditure to be abolished on the republican budget. Why doesn't it seem? There you are right – because of various political interests, because of bureaucracy, which aims to reproduce itself and will always say that something that it does is necessary and productive and always inside will not want to be reformed. But, as in some way local self-governments were thrown into the water, so they had to swim, to cope in the last three years when they were denied 50 billion, it's true that we're hitting this way, giving the Republic a glove that she must now manage to swim for these 40 billion. How? I made a suggestion. Whether the proposal will be accepted, so it depends not on the URS parliamentary club but on the finance minister. If we had a finance minister, we'd be able to solve the problem in two days. If people who put together that budget listen to me, that solution will be easy to find. I made a suggestion, you can say that proposal isn't filigree. What I said about 15 billion taking down republican spending, ten billion on Serbian Ways, 11 billion abolishing anti-crisis measures, isn't enough for you? It's possible, but it's not my job, it's the job of the Republic finance minister. I claim as a former finance minister who had a budget surplus that it was possible and it is certain that it can be done. If local finance ministers, city, municipal, budget and finance chiefs managed to get out of the 50 billion-dollar dubiosis, why couldn't the Republic be this powerful to get away with this, allegedly, 40 billion-billion-dollar problem? Is there a price of 40 billion that the Republic pays to make the city of the municipality more? Yeah, and he's supposed to pay. We're about to pay, and it's not expensive because it's the most expensive thing to stay in a centralised system like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56520	Right on line, two minutes, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56521	Mr. Dinkich, a whole series of nonsense again. First, you haven't been here in Parliament in three years when the budget was discussed. If you were, you would hear Minister Dragutinovic agreeing with us and our criticism with the fence that as finance minister, he is obliged to do what he can with the money at his disposal. Even some parties of the ruling coalitions conditioned their support, respect for the law or the Constitution, so let's say, for Vojvodina they asked for three weeks and then agreed to lie to themselves through an analysis of this money that didn't cover when the transfer of money from the Republic was formulated, but in Vojvodina's right to have that kind of money, so that it itself decides how to spend it. We've never supported a single budget law. We were, on the contrary, very critical. We were particularly critical when it was spared through the suspension of the rights of local self-government to transfer that money. The only thing that made us different from some of the others who filed criminal charges were the accompanying initiatives that went in the direction in which the state had to move if it wanted to fully service the rights it had imposed on all, citizens, businesses, local self-government and, on the other hand, the obligations imposed by its reformation. You haven't said a single word about the positions of these expenditures because you know there's no such thing as money. As far as I know, Mr Dinkic, you were an opponent of raising taxes on additional value as one of the sources of income, which would cover that minus and against the fence, given that I did not participate in these talks, one of the people who was just the creator of the idea of depriving money from local self-government, because they will manage, as you are proposing today, and when we talk about the Republic, we are talking about a republic that is not able to today with this budget and a billion- and 400 million-million-dollar service obligations it has to people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56522	Two minutes. Thank you. The list includes MPs Dragan Stevanovic, Vlajko Senic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Milan Lapčević. Do any of the MPs feel that they have the right to reply? The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56523	I checked in a little while ago when Mr. Milenić was speaking, but the order was like that, since some chivalrous was mentioned. You know, there's been a lot of opportunities in the last three years in this assembly for political chivalry and, above all, mankind to show, especially when the SRS' mandates were being stolen, so that chivalry has since failed. Mr. Milenic, we're talking about communal taxes at this point because the amendment is part of the law relating to municipal taxes. We didn't talk about the most important original income of local self-government, but through this story, we wanted to point to the complete irresponsibility of the government that allowed local self-governments to find themselves in the position they are in and because of the position in which the government led them to make these decisions. That's one thing. The other thing is, it's easy to speak from the position of a city that is completely privileged. If my Surdulica and my south of Serbia were to invest, how much investment in your Kragujevac and I would be here to relax and talk from the position you're talking to. As far as Mr Dinkic is concerned, there is one thing we fully agree on, and we don't care what the IMF says about this issue. We believe Serbia has enough Serbian brains to say that this is total nonsense. You were like the epochal success of the government, when the budget rebalance was passed, saying that a billion to the local self-government that you provided through the rebalancing performances don't even know how big. Today, just like I don't know what, you're lying around with 40 billion dinars. Mr. Dinkic, if you're here, I don't see you, the people of Lebanon are not asking you for the hundreds of millions you're offering right now, the people of Lebanon are asking you to settle the only obligation you've had so far under the law. That's what you had to do. Answer why you have failed to comply with the legal obligation so far, and then you throw yourself at the state money as you throw yourself in principle and in this debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56524	National MPs registered Milan Lapčević, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andric, Vlajko Senić and Jorvanka Tabaković. Have any of the MPs applied for a replica, since they've all been reported, I have to delete the list? You'll sign up when I delete the list because I can only have five names. I will give the right to a replica of the MP Ivan Andric, then to the MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, and then to delete the list because the other reported want to speak on a different basis, so that the MP Sasa Milenic can apply. The word has a People's MP Ivan Andric, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56525	A replica of what Mr Dinkic said or just Dinkic said about not warning about these transfers. Of course it's a lie. It's just that we've warned a few times so far that just because someone doesn't realize some fact doesn't mean that it doesn't exist. For example, I don't know how to build an atomic bomb, but I'm pretty sure it exists. So many things Mladjan Dinkic doesn't know. I would use this time to say that it's perfectly clear that the bill, which we've been offered to reduce the future gap in the budget, is completely unsuitable to this debate. So there was a normal way that this law was prepared in a serious way, as the other laws were being prepared. It's simple, there'd be another bill next to him. When we say there's no money, we know that this money that's going to be given to local self-government, it exists, it's from profit tax. Except that another hole is being made in the budget based on the disappearance of that money from the budget, and it's very nice and interesting when someone who was an economy minister until last week says -- what do you care about the central budget, but it's simply incomprehensible to me that there is someone who pleads to be serious about politics and to say something like that. I guess from that we should have concluded that we are some central budget fans, and Mladjan Dinkic, besides wanting to be an astronaut, wanted and loved local budgets, is now something to argue about. I'll warn you of another very important thing. I wrote to the Office of the National Council for decentralisation on behalf of all MPs and asked for an analysis of this bill given by Mladjan Dinkic, since this institution was designed to take care of decentralisation. To my surprise, they replied, that no proposal had been delivered to them, that they had no idea what was going on, that we all wanted so much happiness in our work and were at our disposal. But just, you know what, if you haven't even spoken to them, and you want to pass this law, then cancel that office, or be one step closer to that 45 billion-euro hole.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56526	Two minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56527	I will try to respond briefly in two minutes to some remarks that are addressed to all of us. So, it is said that all the other opposition is jealous that Mr Dinkic has tabled such a proposal for normal political reasons for our and its possible political benefits. Something that disproves it is that the Fiscal Council is not a political party, not an association, not a coalition, and neither the International Monetary Fund is a political party, nor any kind of organisation that would mind such a proposal. To remind and ask Mr Dinkic not to repeat that the finance minister who had the surplus is because it's simply not true. He reported it, made a draft budget, and when Mr. Cvetkovic made the handover, it turned out to be a deficit, due to unshown debt to the Republic Health Insurance Office. It was confirmed by his analysis and then by IMF representative Peter Doyle. Why? We rebelled against everyone that transfers in local self-government were reduced. Mr Dinkic and your colleagues, I have to tell the rest of the ruling coalition, we asked when the Budgetary System Law was passed, that every legislative project would monitor the percentage of the financial effects. We don't have it until today. We didn't even have your bill until the very day of the debate. The last thing I want to say in this address is that there are some 40 billion dinars somewhere, which, when transferred to a local level, will not lead to damage at a republican level. Please state what positions are these? Where's the money, maybe the cash, maybe the cash, maybe the hand-in-hand, maybe some banks, maybe some banks, which the Post Office Savings, the Commercial Bank, we don't know about? Let's hear where that savings is? That's what we expect of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56528	National MP Sasa Milenić, right on line. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56529	I replicate Mr. Stevanović's discussion, which was mentioned by my name, which is an accusation of the privileged position of the town of Kragujevac, from which I come. In particular, if you were referring to "Fiat", once and for all, it was not "Fiat" that came to Serbia, and because of the privileged position of Kragujevac, Kragujevac chose, but "Fiat" came to Serbia for Kragujevac. If you were referring to the city's attitude towards its own position and the attitude of political activists in it, there is no doubt that Kragujevac is fighting hard for his freedom, that it is a free city, against every privilege and inheritance of that kind. That's exactly how you need to understand both the results and the presence and other investors. To remind you, there are dozens of them from the country and the world, such as "Plaze" from Israel, such as "Remington" from the United States, such as "Johnson-Control" and not to list further, as for my investors and progress the city of Kragujevac is fighting for itself, so it has fought for this government both for this president and for this political framework that will allow Serbia to move forward in its local real environment. Against every privilege is the spirit and mentality of the forest and the Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56530	National MP Dragan Stevanovic also has the right to replication. Two minutes and then this circle of replicas is closed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56531	Mr. Milenic, not "Fiat" in Kragujevac came because you are much more beautiful, smart and successful than others, but have come to Kragujevac and Serbia because in Serbia they received what they did not get in Italy, because their government did not want to finance what you, for your political promotion, were ready to finance. It is not an expression of your freedom and your ability, because your boss has just disputed the right, that the state roads of the first and second, because according to the Law on the Ways adopted by his government, there are no regional and freeway routes anymore, they finance the cost of the state from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and all other infrastructures are necessary for the "Fiyat" gentlemen to come to an end, so there's a story you're telling because it's a political response, and here you're telling a second story, because it suits you and it's in the context of this law. Therefore, we appreciate your free spirit. It's a good thing you have such a spirit. However, one cannot be valid until six months ago, and the other can be valid from that moment until now. Why didn't all this proposer think of it six months ago? Why didn't he remember six months ago? We're being burdened by why we didn't criticise and propose? If someone criticised the budget and your relationship to local self-government, it was the SRS through amendments, and through the adoption discussion, both budgets and budget rebalances. That's why, Malten, we've been punished and expelled. Now you ask us – why are we not? Why didn't you show good faith then? You know, the ex post mind may be good, it's even useful, but really credibility to promote something like this, you don't have a symbol of fiscal and political centralised in Serbia, which is G17 plus and as they are already called – the URS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56532	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome students from the Arcadia University, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. They are present:Professor. Alex N Grigorev, Professor. Warren R Haffar, Mr. Suleiman, Abdullahi, Ms. Danielle Alexandra Bajkowsky, Mr. Tim Daniel Boom, Ms. Patricia Susan Carroll, Miss. Jessica Ann Chiaramonte, Mr. Matthew Douglas Dalrymple, Ms. Juliet Hannah Emas, Ms. Kelly Deery Hayes, Ms. Deery Hays. Angela kahleen irwin, ms. Ali Badara Kargbo, Ms Christa Michelle Lane Hooper, Ms. Colleen Keeney McQuade, Ms. Kaitlyn Rae Norden, Ms. Natalie Deegan Rose, Ms. Ariel Sternman, Ms. Sternman. Vanessa Sarah Valdes, Ms. Valdes. Naomi Hall Wentzky. Welcome to Serbia. Welcome to Serbia. We wish you please stay in our Assembly and I wish you guys to come again. National MP Sasa Milenic is again reported. I think you can use the time of the parliamentary group. This circle of replicas is over. People's MPs who have been declared: MP Vlajko Senić, MP Milan Lapčević, MP Mirko Cikiriz and MP Bojan Đurić. I don't know the order. MP Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56533	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, honored guests, this debate, of course, has taken on what is a political character, and it suits us from the URS, because we are not running away from politics, we are not running away from the fact that this is the political story we are fighting for, which we believe is the interest of Serbian citizens and we believe that in the next elections we will receive great support from Serbian citizens. Just for the proposal of these four or five laws, we managed in a short time to raise half a million votes, which additionally gives legitimacy to our initiative, because the voice of citizens was in fact a desperate cry of people who wanted something to change and who asked political parties to start dealing with their daily problems, not just each other's bickering. Of course, we are ready for all the criticisms we have suffered today, which we have suffered in the past few weeks, over the past few months, and which, probably, after the law is passed, we will especially suffer in the coming period, but that is only proof that we are dealing with a matter that affects the essence and which can really, in the right way, change one system in Serbia. I'll just say a few words about three things that are practically being abused and represented in one way that is not true. If we are talking about reforms that need to be implemented in Serbia, it is not true that these are the first reforms to be implemented. These are important reforms for Serbia's decentralisation. Since 2000, many reforms have been implemented here and every reform implemented has had a political price, sometimes tragic and always one who wants to carry out reforms in Serbia pays in a way and simply gets animated and put on a pillar of shame, because it changes someone's found state. The resistances are always great. I would say that this time we are really changing the situation and there are objections, it could have been a round table, an alliance of cities, an alliance for decentralisation, etc., but at that pace, I am convinced, given that the attitude of political forces in Serbia, what is the state of things, we would not be talking about fiscal decentralisation before 2015 or 2016. We, taking care of the procedure and making sure that we want citizens to feel the effects of change, we chose, we fought for this second approach and we believe that this is how we moved that decentralisation stone. Now, of course, there's a lot of criticism, some other suggestions, but we're not running away from it. We just want to show the citizens of Serbia that things can be changed in a short time, that it is not necessary to lose years, decades, on round tables to solve the problem. To justify my approach, it is best to take an example of restitution. For ten years in Serbia, there has been talk of restitution. There's been public debates for ten years. For ten years, round tables are held. For ten years, the subject has been discussed during the election campaign. Today, we are in a situation where the Law on Restitution is not even in the congregation procedure. So we believe that, for our political goals, parties, political organisations or coalitions are struggling with legitimate means, which are in accordance with the law, making sure that they vote for their goal, not just to talk about it. It's the same case with the IMF's observations and the Fiscal Council that we, as an institution, very much respect, but we believe we're talking about the same thing. So the IMF and the Fiscal Council are asking for the principle of fiscal neutrality to be respected for this year, to remain within the frameworks of the fiscal rules set for 2012, but they are talking about a consolidated budget. So when you talk to the IMF, you don't talk about the Leskovec budget, Liga, Ljubovije, or even Serbia, but you're talking about the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia. We have a different approach here, and we say that we believe that within the resources that the Republic has, it can be distributed differently and central government can be ruled out, that it does what is not really her job. There were also suggestions to transfer new competences to local self-government. We say we are for it, but we say that local self-government today doesn't have the money to exercise existing jurisdiction. This way we're just trying to get local self-government money to do what they can under the existing Law on Local Self-Government. New competences are welcome, we are open to discussion, but this will require further fiscal decentralisation, further reduction of the central budget, i.e. the transfer of local revenues to a much greater extent for local self-government. As far as the remarks also stand, that in the past two and a half years local authorities have paid the price of the global economic crisis, it is legitimate in politics. It was not a strong enough political force to fight for the interest of local self-government and citizens living in these municipalities. I'm sure the farmers in Vojvodina wouldn't have gotten what they asked if they hadn't blocked the entire Vojvodina with their tractors, that they were sitting in their houses, that they were sending messages from the fields that they wanted to obey the law, I'm sure the government wouldn't have seen them, and I'm sure they wouldn't have fought for the rights that they were certainly following. Today we represent 500,000 citizens and represent local self-government and ask for the support of our partners to fight for this law and we will get that support. It's the only way to do what you promised voters. There were some things in the past that were bright, more or less, dark, but I will remind you that such resistance was in 2008 when we talked about Fiat, then it was said – Serbia has given a lot. Today we are one step away from making it one of the most modern plants in this part of Europe, to produce 200,000 exportable vehicles. Was it better or was it better to close, again from the central register, a local budget hole in Kragujevac where people came through one hole, spent two hours in the factory, went through others and produced nothing or is it better that some people work on some real products today? It's hard, the resistance is big, but just because this is one essential reform, we don't want to get all the points for us, but you're making us. All of you together are making us practically the only ones to pick up the laurels of changing the centralized system in Serbia. We're ready to share it with everyone, our hands are open, our hearts are open to your support and your suggestions, and I'm sure in the next period we'll work on it together, but no one will be able to argue that this is the most important first step and I believe that voters will appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56534	Seven minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Ivan Andric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56535	Much sooner for the replica on the previous list, please, the one that's been annulled. Thank you, I'm just asking for that order. A few things Mr. Senic said and I have to answer. I think it was a misreading of what we're saying. That justified rush of yours after 11 years in power, not your own, but the G17, it's hard for me to understand. For ten years round tables have taken place, but only a few constants in those 10 years. One of these is that Mladjan Dinkic is in power, some other people, Rasim Ljajic, etc. Everything else has changed in those 10 years, but these are some constants. I agree that there is a way to save the budget, but I'm sorry you didn't say that in December last year when we said that, and you voted for that budget and defended it, if I'm not mistaken. So to simplify the people sitting here and watching us, you took the local self-government money, G17 plus, the URS, whatever your name is, with the ruling majority. You didn't give it to them. Now you show up as rescuers after six months, you'll give them some other money. There is a logical problem, and you solve it and the answer you offer is exclusively demagogue. Is there a jurisdiction? You say - there are no new responsibilities for n sheep. That's not true. Why isn't the chief of police in local self-government elected? What kind of money is that? Why does he have to be set up by Ivica Dacic? It's decentralisation. What you're doing isn't. You take money where it's gone anyway, you put it where it can be spent in an election campaign because it's the only way you can cross the censorship again. You don't represent 500,000 citizens here. You represent a third of the DS list... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... That's what you represent here, and for 500,000 citizens we'll see after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56536	National MP Vlajko Senic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56537	We don't certainly represent a third of the list. If you start from that, Mr. Andric, that in 2008, the time in Serbia has stopped and that nothing has happened since then, we can also talk. But well, that's one political assessment. As for when Mr Dinkic was in power, you will agree with me, whenever he was elected by citizens or elected by your National Assembly then as governor. I don't have any information that he used to be in power or against the rules that apply in this country, the Constitution, the law, etc., so it'll probably be after the next election, and perhaps together with you. As far as these local incomes are concerned, let's not run away from any mistakes. We're really asking for these mistakes to be corrected now. We cannot now on behalf of the mistakes made in 2009 and 2010 – we are waiting for a new party to be called the municipal party to win in the election support in order to ensure what needs to be changed in this country. We also suggested that the mayor be elected. It's as important as the chief of police. Give the law, you or whoever's in charge, to choose the chief of police in the election, to choose the mayor, the prosecutors, as in the United States, whatever. So this is one of the sets of decentralisation laws. Anyone who contributes to repairing this process, clothing, etc. It's absolutely something, as you say, that you knock on the open door of the URS, but don't criticize us for what's good. Give us support and there's still time to vote to change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56538	National MP Ivan Andric, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56539	I agree there are a lot of mistakes. But you know what I disagree with? I do not agree in that political position to avoid the responsibility for the mistakes that have been made. I'm telling you -- you accused us, the president of your parliamentary group, that we were silent about it, and now he shows up as a superman, an astronaut to help local self-government. That's where this debate started, Mr. Senic. So he made the lie and I pointed it out. We opposed it, and he denied the municipalities money. So the opposition was against it. However, what does it take to correct a mistake? There's no need to make a new mistake. What's enough is that your government, whose reconstruction you voted for a few weeks ago, paid that money to local self-government. There's no need for us to be involved in your election campaign here. That money can come to local self-government, under the applicable law. It is enough that your ministers Ćirić, Kalanovic, do not even know who remains after the reconstruction, Pedja Markovic, for example. It's simple, you have to tell the government that you're breaking the law, not that you're honoring us. So, say it in the Government, and if you fail, then come with it to the Assembly and tell us – not to give us the Democratic Party. It is then called an open political battle in which everyone says what is true, not to engage in demagogue and lies. So it's in your hands. There's no need to waste the time of the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure and make a new mistake. That's what we're telling you. There are many laws in this country that must be adopted. We don't have time to do your campaign. We're telling you that. This problem is being solved very simply – tomorrow or the day after tomorrow is the cabinet session, Peja Markova gets up, slaps her hand on the table and says money must be paid to local self-government. That's all it takes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56540	Two minutes. National MP Vlajko Senic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56541	First, don't fight us with DS, we don't have any problems with DS. If you have looked at the bill, it is not a formal proposal here only the URS but 122 MPs of the ruling coalition have submitted a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. So there is one broad support in the ruling coalition. We're initiators and we've organized a petition. We have decided to show the citizens of Serbia that the government is not the only place they can fight for their rights. How do you, Mr. Andric, imagine a country where some government minister slaps his hand on a table and says, "Give money to local self-government?" We imagine it a little differently. So this is the National Assembly and this is where the voice of the citizens should be heard. Today, when I speak, I feel like I'm speaking on behalf of -- that you don't get me wrong to be worth 500 thousand votes, that's still not a fact -- but I'm talking on behalf of the 500,000 citizens who supported us for this initiative. It is a healthy political atmosphere, for people to see that their people's representatives can fight for their interests, and not – we voted in 2008, they've scrutinised a coalition, see you in 2012. That's not good. We're changing things in Serbia and maybe you're wrong about it, but you're not that bad at it, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56542	National MP Ivan Andric, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56543	It's not my fault. Or let me put it this way. I wouldn't mind you changing for the better. But I feel bad that you're changing up. I told you another thing. So, at the beginning of this debate, last week we accused or told our position, and this attitude is very simple – this law is superficial, does not take care of any further consequences, and it is only a tool G 17 plus, which is not enough to change the name to hide from voters but must have another step by misusing the Assembly. Everything you said and everything you said here, when you sum up -- that's true. You've admitted that there's a hole in the 40 billion dinar budget and now with this unsuspecting attempt of 15 billion, seven billion, here one, there one, etc., it's not serious. In order to believe you, you should have been parallel to the amendments to all the other laws, not that we are adopting this one today, with your promise that others will be adopted. We don't believe you. Let us have that luxury. We think that you will make a hole in the budget today, and that you will force the government and participate in Serbia's second debt in September or October of this year, ranging from 400m to 700m euros, via Eurobonds. That's what we think. We don't think you're going to reduce any jurisdiction, but you're going to push this country deeper into the ambis, and this budget money, which is estimated by about seven billion by the end of this year, you're going to use it in election campaigns, in your agreement with the DS. How? That's it. That's what we say. And what you say, your actions, ten years old, speak of you. And let us not believe your promises that something will happen that we don't think will happen. You have not submitted all the proposals of the law, so let us say, you are right, there will be a reduction, it will be this. No, I don't. You've only come with one who has a clear and political goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56544	National MP Vlajko Senic and this is the final round of replicas. The suggestions from the ranks of MPs are that a round of replicas should be completed by an opposition representative. A suggestion has been accepted and it is good practice in parliaments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56545	Thank you. It is good that this circle of replicas ends because it is clear that there are no major economic arguments against this law but there is one good political battle and it is quite good and legitimate. We will talk about budget rebalancing very quickly, but in the fall, and I think it is an opportunity for us all to make an effort together to really reform when we talk about public spending, fiscal responsibility, action. So we're just starting from another philosophy that tells us that it's much better for taxpayers' money to be closer to the citizens or to be available to the citizens who are responsible for why that money ever happened to be in some central or municipal register. We believe that this will make it easier for money to invest wisely, that people who make decisions in Leskovac will decide better how to spend the money of Leskovec citizens than when it is decided in Belgrade how to spend some money in Leskovac. We think that this way control will be much stronger and corruption will be reduced. We believe that this is the right way to bring the central government in Belgrade down to those frameworks that correspond to this state, with such a social product and with this standard. We're not going to accept the fact that a given condition is something that is immutable, that relationships are given invariably and that no one has the right to intervene in all this. The USS political force speaks on behalf of Serbian citizens seeking Serbia's decentralisation. That's what LSV and DS and SPO and LDP are talking about, but we're trying to do it in practice and we expect to start a process with this law that can no longer be stopped. We, like you, are responsible to the citizens and they will judge us in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56546	National MP Ivan Andric, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56547	I agree that the taxpayers' money of this country must be spent in the right way and the difference between us and you is that you, as part of the ruling coalition, are breaking a law that makes it possible today, and we have been warning you of that since 2008. That's the only difference. Everything else is political demagogues and demagogues that are not true. So you're part of the ruling coalition. If you wanted the money to go to Leskovac, to Zaječar, to Valjevo, to Prokuplje, all you had to do was allow transfers to local self-government. Instead, you voted for these transfers to be abolished and on the other hand waited for the government three months before obtaining candidate status and blackmailed her into adopting your proposal for a law that was bad. It is bad because it allocates some funds that are centralized in most countries in the world, because it compromises the notion of decentralisation because it is not about any transfer of rights and jurisdiction and because it leaves a hole in the Republic of Serbia's budget that you intend to fill in by borrowing this country further. There's no reason for you and I to convince each other, because you and I both know what the case is and what the political game is. We can't be convinced at this debate. What is our only goal, which is not to allow you to use public resources like the Serbian Parliament to deceive, among other things, and those 500 000 citizens who have shown you confidence in something that you do not do. You could have removed this problem very easily and very cheaply. Instead of blackmailing the government with this session, giving it most of it, you could also blackmail her into releasing local transfers to local self-government. But no one would know that, and you decided on the path of demagogy politics and the start of an election cycle that I believe started the moment the ruling coalition gave way to you and today there is no one here to defend you. Take care of what you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56548	Do any of the MPs wish a word about the amendments to the members submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic? National Messenger Mirko Chikiriz, then the People's Messenger Milan Lapecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56549	Okay, let's get back to the agenda. I would ask the chairman that we really take more care of what our obligation is in the future. I believe, and that the presidents of the municipalities, and the people of the local self-government and all the people who signed this petition expect us to talk more about the subject of the agenda. If we really want something that is a serious issue for Serbia today to divorce with such discussions. I don't think it's responsible for the citizens who are watching this transmission. In fact, the debate is whether local municipal fees, as one of the original revenues of local self-government, should be limited, to which amount should be limited and which is the best solution. The promoter said it was two average earnings. We recognize the good intentions of the promoters in that, of course, by respecting the economic situation in our country, it was the intention that you were overly burdened by the additional decisions of local self-government. Local communal fees, here we have heard some data, can be significantly large amounts, and if in that sense local self-government is not limited, then, of course, the economy can suffer. An amendment from the DS colleagues by which the amount is maximum to three and a half average earnings has been accepted. I think it's an appropriate solution just for the next reason. Of course, that local self-government and all of us who used to work in local self-government, and had big headaches about the small budgets of local self-government, we certainly know, but this is for the sake of the public to say because they heard really inappropriate estimates today that your amounts could be a few million dinars, that they could have minority firms go bankrupt, that they were suffering their business in value, etc., it's simply not true. All local self-government, cutting local municipal taxes according to performance and areas. Well, let's just say, if in the centres of cities, such as the most common case, there are and there are bank, financial organisations, insurance companies or companies for the transport and oil trade and oil derivatives, it is certain that such companies make high incomes, and it is certain that a maximum amount would be cut off by three and a half average wages, which are realised in local self-government units, is not something that burdens their business. We also had a proposal from the SNS to make it an amount of 1% of the legal person's annual income. The amount, among companies that make huge profits, would indeed be more than the amount proposed by a DS counterpart and accepted by the government. What I would really point out in the political sense is that today the SPO is mentioned which does not claim the right to decentralisation, I think it is necessary for the public to say that, by establishing our political organisation, we have recently said that the SPO advocates the full power of municipalities and cities. The full power of municipalities and cities means what is being talked about here today. It is the higher competences of municipalities and cities, but also higher sources of funding to achieve the function of local self-government. I think the day that a significant date for both the Republic of Serbia and this National Assembly has finally begun in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We also seem to have missed the opportunity to, when we talk about important legal proposals, not to mention the problem of decentralisation of Serbia and the fact that today we are the most centralised country with the biggest imbalance in Europe, between developed and less developed municipalities and cities. What is additionally devastating for all governments after 2000 is that the imbalance was increased after 5 October compared to the previous period. Are these the consequences of systemic errors? Of course. These are the consequences of a communist legacy of one understanding that in Belgrade or in the republic there is a supreme mind to determine local self-governments, where there are no such minds, what to do, how to develop, what their priorities are, etc. If the fundamental principle of the EU, which we are all seeking, is a uniform development of all countries, EU member states and a uniform development within one EU member state, then all political parties who really have the political will to fundamentally decentralisation Serbia are at the same job. In this job, the SPO is 21 years old and for this we signed a petition of the United Regions of Serbia without a hint of jealousy, regardless of what we first wrote about our vision of Serbia's decentralisation. They would sign it if it were both the proposal and the SRS, the LDP or any other political party because it is our assessment of Serbia's interest. That is why I am going to ask the chair and ask you to continue to discuss this agenda point really because of the importance of the topic, because of the fact that we are doing an important job, we are really talking, what the Latins would say, about the things "ad rem" and the neo personalities "ad personam".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56550	You have no right to a replica. Mr. Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56551	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are very strange circumstances under which this debate and the bill take place. So, my understanding of political life is normal that in a normal state, the government made up of ruling parties, which is relevant to the problems and challenges that arise in the country, is proposing appropriate legal solutions to solve these problems and bring them into a normal framework. We have a situation here that there is obviously a huge problem of funding local self-government, and that the problem is not seen by the government but is seen by one ruling party, and not through an initiative which has been put forward as a ruling party in the government, so the government passed the law and proposed it to the National Assembly, but through the initiative of the political strnake in power and proposed a legal solution through, with the support or petition of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as if it were an opposition party. One completely abnormal circumstance that cannot be interpreted differently, but rather as a desire to make a political point or profit from this problem. A little while ago, it was heard in a debate that local self-governments were dumped in the water three years ago and that no one was taking care of them and that no one was wondering how they were going to solve their problems with reduced transfers coming from the state. These are said by a man who was prime minister of the government until yesterday and whose party today is in power, which is practically part of the ruling coalition. The reminders are working, just to mention some facts. Therefore, the Law on the financing of local self-government was adopted in 2005 with the application of 2006. According to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, Article 37 says that 1.7% of the social gross product from the Republic of Serbia's budget is purposely defined for transfers to local self-governments, according to a model developed and more respected by undeveloped municipalities, to receive a percentage of more funds than it normally belongs to, to reduce differences in development and so that these local self-governments can finance a part of their costs that they have in the local region, and not depend on and do not run into some ministry every day to solve a problem. Under the law, which was respected in 2006, I did not hear further, talking to dozens of municipal or local self-government representatives, that anyone had objections in terms of the size of the funds for the functioning of local self-government in 2006, 2007 and 2008. The problem has arisen since the current ruling coalition was formed, since 2009, with the start of the global economic crisis that has been passed on, of course, to Serbia, when the ruling coalition, reacting to apparently less revenue in the 2009 budget, decided to reduce transfers to local self-government, justifying it simply because the burden of the economic crisis is such that everyone has to endure equally. This specifically reflected a drop in local self-government transfers in April 2009 in budget rebalancing, ranging from 42 billion to 25 billion dinars. It seems to me, and if I am wrong, you will correct me, that the local self-governments alone were directly responsible, that only directly reduced expenditures from the budget, that no other institution which is financed directly or indirectly from the republican budget has put up with the burden of the economic crisis or suffered at least the burden of local self-government. So it's the ruling coalition's decision, in which even today, representatives of the legislator sit. Now I simply cannot understand one of the debaters in the previous debate, who says they are aware that they will face resistance because they are changing the situation. What congested condition? It was not found, but it was the condition that the people who were sitting in that government, and today they are sitting in the government, that they produced. So, the decision of the people who are proposing the law, who sat in the government then and for the previous three years, and also today sits, is to reduce transfers to local self-government and not respect the Law on the financing of local self-government, under which the transfer should be 42 billion and further bigger in the coming years, and it was 25. It is simply amazing that someone who has produced the problem is now proposing a solution to this problem and is portrayed to the citizens as a savior or as a great guardian or benefactor to local self-government. It even comes from a critical position towards others, as they now care about local self-government, and no one has cared about it in the previous period. That's just not true. When the Budget Rebalancing Act was adopted in 2009 in April, the DSS parliamentary group and I personally submitted a number of amendments correcting the injustice against local self-governments. We sought and had arguments not to reduce local self-government so much and that if there is already less revenue in the budget, the burden of the crisis is passed on equally and evenly to all the users of the budget, not just to local self-government. We warned that development in municipalities would stop, that municipalities would go into large debt so that they could finance basic functions. The basic functions are according to basic education, according to pre-school education, according to infrastructure, etc. We warned that this did not seem to happen and that it was not possible to pass the Budget Law to violate the second law, the Law on the financing of local self-government. No one at the time absolutely wanted to hear it, nor were our amendments accepted, nor were our arguments at that time credible for representatives of the ruling coalition. Today these same arguments that we talked about three years ago, we're constantly talking about these arguments in those three years, these are the arguments that appear here when we explain the bill. That means after three years, what we talked about came to your head. That's good, that's not bad. It takes time for some arguments to be accepted, to be understood as real, and it's good that these arguments are made here today. But we simply wonder how much damage has been done in the last three years? Why is it not then accepted as a valid argument, but it is now an argument that the United Regions are proposing a new law? We just can't believe it, we heard here and in the discussion of the law in principle and now in the details of the sea of some figures that are completely contradictory. At first, we heard that by increasing the isolation, or by increasing from 40% to 80% of the income tax left to local self-government, will not make a gap in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that everyone will be satisfied. So the municipalities will get more money, and on the other hand the budget will not be damaged. Then the counter arguments were made that it was simply impossible, that there were no perpetuals when you increased something on one side of a pile, and there was no shortage in that crowd. Then there were contrasting arguments that they would be saved on transfers, because they have other mechanisms that would cover that deficit in the budget, so there's no need for transfers to be, as much as it needs to be, 57 billion, what it's worth, 1.7% of GDP. When we have made arguments that it is simply impossible, because you propose the bill, or you leave that 1.7% of GDP will be the basis for non-purpose transfers, and that is 57 billion, and it is said previously that it will be further than next year, the Law on the financing of local self-government, then it was – we will find savings by not funding local projects from the republican budget that amount to, once said, 15 billion, and the second time said 20 billion, and then the third time said 14 billion, and then added – there will be 11 billion of anti-crisis measures, and 10 billion of Serbia's travels. Well, Serbia's roads are not funded from the budget, are not part of the budget, they have their own special account and are financed in some other way. There's just a lot of contradictions and a lot of things that just don't go with each other, you don't have a single number that matches. Every new debate, some new figures are being thrown out. It is simply amazing that just a few months ago there was a nearly two-month strike by educational workers, who asked for about five billion dinars to be increased in accordance with previously signed agreements and the total cost for the state, i.e. for the budget. The schools didn't work, the kids didn't go to school, they were damaged, and the enlighteners went on strike and asked for something to increase. There were no five billion in the budget, and it was said -- the entire country's fiscal monetary system cannot fall because it needs to be increased to educational workers, I don't know how much, by 10% or by 6%. Now suddenly we have 40 billion and we can save to make up for what we took from them in the last three years. How come now? It couldn't have been two months ago, and now suddenly it can. What's so drastically changed in these last two months? I don't think anything has changed, but simply when it's a political interest, then we find ways to solve something. Remember the negotiations with the IMF in 2009, when the crisis started? At the time, it was said, or by the IMF, that the costs of the Republic of Serbia had to be reduced, and they mainly concerned the reduction of the allocation for the state administration. Accordingly, the Restriction Act was adopted, i.e. a reduction in the number of employees in local self-government. Local self-government had to find funds at the end of 2009 or early 2010 and reduce the number of employees, but increased the number of employees in the state administration, and is now more than 30,000. At the end of this year, earlier, in 2010, the government approved the employment of 730 new officials. So, on the one hand, you're constantly increasing the costs of the state administration, hiring new people in the state administration, and of course you're making new expenses, and you're saying there's no money for local self-government, so we're going to cut them to 25, then to 27, then to 32 last time, and here's an argument in June 2011 can be saved in the Republic budget. That means there's no political will. If there is political will, then those savings could have been made in 2009 and local self-governments were not damaged, and they were damaged by over 50 billion dinars. Nis is specifically damaged by over two billion dinars, and for these two billion dinars, probably 20 kindergartens could be built, certainly 10 or 15 schools, or all problems with sewage and wastewater could be solved throughout the city's territory and suburban settlements. So many countries have stopped the development of my city, for example, but it has stopped the development of many other local self-government. Now, no one who directly participated in the government at the time, cut off the local self-government, said no one took care of these local self-governments, and now, here, the promoter is taking care of local self-government since it led them to the edge of sustainability, has made huge debts to these local self-governments. The deficits of local self-government are astronomical. To inform you, Nis had to take 800 million dinars of credit so he could cover some basic things. This is the result of what is called unconscious or rationally available to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where you will abolish local self-government, but the state, where the ministers, where the government's vice-presidents, are where other budget users are, will behave automatically, but we will end up on local self-government and you call it concern for local self-government, not something else. I think that way is absolutely unsustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56552	I'm sorry, if you're speaking as an authorised representative, then you've taken the time. Thank you. The word is proposed by the MP Mr Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56553	So I've really repeated it several times, taking responsibility for Serbia's public finances during my term as finance minister in 2004-2006. At the time, Serbia had, in 2005 and 2006, a budget surplus, or surplus. He ended in 2006 with two billion euros. You're saying that I have the right to suggest something, and I was in the government that cut transfers to local self-government for 50 billion? I wasn't in that government, the finance minister, and if I was satisfied with the government's full work, I'd probably still be in that government. I guess there's some reason I'm not in that government anymore. So that's the reason there is. I'm not out of the government by chance. It didn't happen as some kind of incident, but there's a serious reason why I'm no longer a member of that government. However, the fact is that it is important for Serbia to get candidate status by the end of this year and that is why my ministers continued to work in the same government, but not at the position of the finance minister. That, therefore, does not deny me the right as an MP, as head of the URS parliamentary group to propose something that from the aspect of experience in implementing the previous law that I have proposed as a minister would bring improvement and that is all we have done. We believe that your party's position to return transfers to cities and municipalities is legitimate, but that it is not enough to make cities and municipalities independent in the future. It is true that if literally the current law, which I essentially as finance minister at the time, were to be respected as a proposal for a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, that the next year cities and municipalities of Serbia would receive 20 billion dinars more transfers than is the case. So strict respect for the current laws, without any changes, would bring 20 billion more to cities and municipalities. However, these laws give cities and municipalities 43. The additional effect of the law is, in a quantitative sense, an additional 23 billion compared to what it would be if the law hadn't changed. It's that net effect of this law. However, this law has one qualitative improvement, which essentially now does not depend on the transfer of the Republic, because if countries finance their local self-government from transfers above all, it only says that they are mostly centralist. The more original revenues local self-government means the countries are decentralised. This is the first step towards making a profit tax in this part of 80% becoming the original income of local self-government. This is one of the basic reasons, if you have seen that a permanent conference of cities and municipalities has now supported this law, because when all these political elements are rejected which of these have political benefits, which has political damage, the essence remains that all cities and municipalities in Serbia are getting these, and that they are essentially less dependent on the Republic. Who stays dependent on the Republic? Small and poor municipalities. It is this law that offers them the solution that they get more through the transfer than the current law allows them, because other than the unaltered amount of non-intentional transfer they also receive additional transfer of solidarity because Belgrade is being abolished. This law has balanced and allowed small cities, poor municipalities to get more transfers than today and plus twice as much of the income tax, and those who are developed will get less transfers and be more on the market, but will therefore have twice the income tax. There are, however, more employees there, and they will also benefit significantly and will be motivated both to employ as many people as possible on the territory of their municipality to keep 80% of the income tax in those municipalities. So, I don't agree with the thesis that just returning the seized transfer funds would help solve the problem. That would certainly be better than the current situation, no one has any dilemmas, that money would mean that 20 billion are not small money, but better 43 billion get and plus qualitatively be independent of the Republic and not be so important tomorrow. We all know, I said that last time, there have been parties here that have been making some ruling coalitions in our country for the past 20 years. We all know how much it means to have the same political parties in power in municipalities as you do in the Republic government. I think that it is not good and that people should be allowed to choose in cities and municipalities those who are the best, regardless of whether they are currently in the Republic in power or not and that they know that the Republic cannot blackmail them by failing to repaint the political structure of the Republic they will not receive any transfer funds or not to receive some projects. Therefore, this law gives citizens much greater flexibility that when they declare taking care of specific people in their municipalities and the city, they do not care what their representatives are like in the Republic. This essentially allows cities and municipalities to be more financially independent and 80% of the income tax is something that is significant. The fact is that a number of countries in Europe have already had a solution, we have not invented it, and we will never be entitled to it. I already said when we talked about the law in principle that this solution is in an even more drastic form, by the fact that the full income from the profit tax belongs to municipalities, has long been implemented by Scandinavian countries. We can say that we are not comparable to Scandinavian countries because they are richer, have a much higher degree of social justice, but are also some countries in transition besides Slovakia, even Croatia and Romania. They have a much higher share of the income tax in total local revenues than it will be after applying this new law to us in Serbia. We think it's a good solution. When I was doing this law I consulted the Minister of Finance of Slovakia, I don't want to hide. They introduced a rule that 90% of Slovakia's earnings tax belongs to municipalities and regions that exist in Slovakia. We don't have a region, except for Vojvodina, which is a formal and essential region, and we have a kiM that's just a formal region, because it doesn't have any specific sources of funding like the province does. In this sense, we defined ourselves for this amount of 80%, because in Slovakia the largest part of that money remains in municipalities, and slightly smaller goes to regions. I agree with the fact that it's bad, there's no dilemma, which the municipalities were denied by 50 billion, but I don't think it would be enough for them to do just that money, but to go a step further, that's the essence of this law, to reduce the dependence of cities and municipalities on transfers, but to essentially get a lot more than a profit tax that in many cities and municipalities will become the key tax revenue of local self-government with great motivation that cities and municipalities try to keep young people from VSS in their city and have higher salaries, because then more remains local budgets and that, of course, more entrepreneurs of people will be employed, which will indirectly lead to the mayors to realize that sooner or later on, it is better to reduce the company and that the more people are employed in their territory. I really suggested this, as someone who understands public finances, because I showed it while I was working as a finance minister and wishing that after five years, the first partial application of the law, because it was applied until 2008, when it showed good effects and not fully applying this law in the last three, when it showed bad, we would make some solution that would reduce the dependence of the locals on the republican authorities, whoever is the holder of the republican government tomorrow. Secondly, to correct, when you look at the structure of the current law, many cities, when 40% of the profit tax stays with them, and 60% transfer to the Republic, later get much less of what they gave the Republic. For some cities, that's probably logical, but for most of us, it's not, and that's why the increase in the participation in the profit tax was a logical solution that some other countries before us have applied and that we are now proposing to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56554	Thank you. (Milan Lapcevic, from the place: Replica. ( b) Replica, on what basis? It's not offensive. He explained the position of the promoter, you explained the position of your parliamentary group. (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: Let's get some things straight. Here you go. You got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56555	So I understand what you're saying and it's legitimate, it's just one thing, but that's that it's relatively unsustainable, or unsustainable from the aspect of the current deficit in the Republic budget. In order to give more to some, you have to reduce, and if they remain the same costs at the republican level, the deficit will have to be increased, or new loans will have to be taken, as have been taken in previous years. You, for example, had in one of the previous campaigns the slogan "Property ahead of Politics". I think the Fiscal Council is gathering some experts around and representing an independent professional body. The fiscal council, for example, said the 80 per cent tax revenue proposal goes to local self-government. It is not based on modern fiscal practice, which recommends that the profit tax is dominantly central to the government, for example. I quote Fiscal Council what it says. He says there's going to be a rough violation of the fiscal rules. The allowed deficit in 2012 would be exceeded by a third, which would undermine fiscal sustainability and macro-economic stability, according to the Fiscal Council. The IMF, which you also often call upon when it suits you, a permanent IMF representative warns that adoption of the proposal with decentralisation would increase the deficit of the state budget, etc. He says that the proposal is bad and that the increase in the deficit of the state budget by 1.1% of gross social product, or 40 billion in 2012, so what we're talking about is what we're talking about. So I agree that municipalities and local self-government should be replaced by what was taken from them. You didn't answer me the reasons why you didn't remember to propose this bill, say, in the middle of last year, at the end of last year. When the 2011 budget was adopted, the same reasons were and you were able to propose them then, while you were in the government and it would be much more legitimate to discuss it as a government proposal than now as a proposal from a single parliamentary unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56556	Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, everyone gets a word in the O.R., so of course you can get a word in when you get your turn. I'll give you a very happy word. You know we've never had a problem here. Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56557	This last question -- why didn't I think of it before, so, suddenly, we remembered. If you look at the congregation archive, let's say, for the Law on Returning Property to Local Self-Government, which is now a lot of talk, we handed it over in the procedure in January of last year. It's been a year and a half since the assembly of this law, which has also done a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, we've only modified it a little bit, I fully admit it, no one wanted to put it on the agenda. We had talks within the ruling coalition, you are not responsible for this because you are in opposition, we have asked to put it on the agenda only now, when the European Commission is asking for the return of property to local self-government and the province. Only now will it come to the agenda. And also for funding, when we talked about it, there was no kind of consensus to put it on the agenda when it was proposed. We had to launch a petition and go and collect citizens' signatures. Now that we've collected 515,000 signatures from citizens, it's on the agenda. So it's not an observation that this is just what we're thinking about right now. You know, even during the government that you participated in, there was a request from the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities to return property to local self-government. Then the answer was the lawyer that couldn't do it, the existing constitution wouldn't allow it at the time. The constitution was later changed, and this current one allows it, but it was not done after the constitutional change, until the European Commission asked Serbia to do so. We are constantly in a situation where when someone on the side, whether it's the European Commission or the IMF from us, we adopt it, and when proposed by some parliamentary group, someone else could suggest this, then the controversy appears – well, now we won't because they suggested it. We are not going to get into a situation tomorrow that the European Commission is asking us to do decentralisation, do something to help cities and municipalities, and only then to discuss it. There's a hypocrisis here, and I have to bring it out here openly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56558	Thank you. (Milan Lapcevic, from the place: Replica. ) There is order, Mr Krasic believes that I have violated the Rules of Procedure and has the right under Article 103(1). Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56559	This is Article 27. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Novakovic. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been changed yet. I guess you didn't change overnight. I see the flag is still the same in front of the Assembly, so nothing's changed. In what part of your custody on the application of the Rules of Procedure have you committed a serious injury? Let me explain. An hour, an hour and a half of the debate has been under way in the Assembly over the amendments submitted by Zoran Krasic. Let us put aside the fact that a representative of the legislator in a way that defiles my amendment. To put aside this agreed replica between G17 plus and LDP, to put all of this aside, I simply can't understand that you don't feel the pulse of this discussion and the need for any of the representatives of the SRS to be through a breach of the Rules of Procedure, whether through a replica, to be able to explain to the public the basic thing, to be here and not know what terms people should use. Here is the story – centralization, decentralisation, financial decentralisation, etc. You're simply suffocating this debate that should be extremely productive. Unfortunately, in our Rules of Procedure, we do not have a provision that gives the Member's right to propose that the current chairman be changed. If there was such a provision, I would ask you to be removed from that place, because you simply now have to guard the party interests of G17 plus, and to your judgment who suits you, you give him a replica, who doesn't suit you, there's no replica. I won't be happy with your answer, because I can see a little further from what's going on, so I'd like to ask you in the voting day, when you vote, to give you one more vote on whether you've committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56560	Of course, I did not commit a breach of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the Assembly in the voting day will declare your apparition. You have also submitted the amendment together with MPs Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordan Pop-Lazic and Natas Jovanovic. Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic. (Milan Lapčević, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Lapchevic, now I'm hurting the Rules of Procedure again, just before. Is that what you want to point out? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56561	Article 27, Mr. Chairman, he regulates...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56562	Thank you. That member's just been advertised, so that's completely impossible. (Milan Lapčević, from the post: In another way I want to... Mr. Palalic, you have your word, if you want to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56563	Mr. Novakovic, this was the opportunity to hold the debate as much as possible because the fact that Mr. Lapcevic had the right to speak, but it is your way of leading this session. The essence of my report under this amendment is several times the fact that the promoter tried to systematically solve Serbia's decentralisation problem. The key problem with this bill is that it hangs in the air. This law, when it comes to decentralisation, as a very complex and complex system, does not have any contact point with all other segments of decentralisation, nor with the Law on Local Self-Government, nor has it taken into account, and with competences that local self-government have municipalities and cities, nor with all other laws concerning local self-government. This law, in itself, as it flies alone in the air, can do additional damage, and I will try on several examples to show what damage it will do exactly the formulations that we have in it, and especially the amendments adopted by the promoters. decentralisation cannot be resolved by getting double the money and all problems solved in such a way, not paying attention that local self-government is part of the government system of the Republic of Serbia. When the budget rebalanced funds were reduced by local self-government in 2009, representatives of the authorities are here and also in the public, but also to the MPs who supported the rebalancing said that in the republican budget there are no funds for much more important positions and therefore we have to rebalance. We are now creating an additional deficit without the answer given that the government of the Republic of Serbia has solved those problems that justified the removal of the transfer funds. It's a serious and huge problem. Secondly, you will see how tensions and problems and serious fundamental inequalities will arise in local self-government, for two reasons. The first question is what are projects of local importance that will be financed by local self-government? When you look at the competences of local self-government in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or in the Law on Local Self-Government, as defined in the amendment that has been adopted and which will become an integral part of the law, many local self-governments, not only from the fourth group of development, have so far sought or received the support of the Republic, for example, in the construction of the necessary schools, the necessary homes of health. It's not just the pathways of questions of local importance. Now that some municipality that even in a situation where it gets these funds has no opportunity to fund such important facilities itself, the Republic will interpret it -- we have nothing to do with it because it's a project of local importance, building a hospital itself, building a home of health, building a sports hall itself. Then probably by the logic that this government has since the famous reform, then, in addition to abolishing the courts, we will end the homes of health, school and all that local self-government and with these means will not be able to finance. Because there's no funding in the Republic budget itself, and now they're not just going to look at local self-government. Can you say that local self-government from the first, second and third levels of development will be able to build these facilities? Of course you won't. So this law does not comply with any other law regarding the system of local self-government. It's a fundamental and key problem. Another problem where this law will produce the fundamental inequality of local self-government concerns the fact that we in the area of the AP Vojvodina have a Capital Investment Fund which primarily finance projects of local importance in the area of the AP Vojvodina. There is no such thing in the rest of Serbia, central Serbia. Belgrade itself, as a strong industrial and financial centre, has opportunities, but municipalities in central Serbia will not have the possibility of the situation when the Government of the Republic of Serbia refuses, explaining that some project of local importance has nothing to do with it, solves the problem they will have, which will be able to solve municipalities and cities in Vojvodina, where they will contribute to the assistance of the Capital Investment Fund in this situation. That's the problem when you imagine the state the way you imagined it. You give such powers to the AP Vojvodina by adopting statutes and all that it implies, and now with this law, leaving out the fact that there is an AP that has financial opportunities to help its local self-government, you are making a fundamental inequality to this law between local self-government in Serbia and not to solve the problem of inequality. It will not be possible, as it is said here, for the government of the Republic of Serbia to equate development to address the problem of a different degree of development of a Babusnica, Black Treva or some municipality in the AP Vojvodina. No way. You've produced this problem with this law, and you can't solve it. Furthermore, the question that has been raised here concerns whether it is enough to return the transfer funds and thereby solve the problem – the clast in which this government moves from centralism by abolishing the transfer funds and suffocating local self-government to one, I will not say decentralisation but anarchy that we enter by adopting this law, where the state, as we have heard here in discussion, is irrelevant. It's the municipalities that matter. These are two extreme attitudes that we have the opportunity to listen to for three years by the ruling coalition. Before it comes into question whether and how much funds are needed to finance local self-government, an analysis of the state of local self-government should be carried out from municipality to municipality, from city to city and see whether some municipalities need funding, but whether certain municipalities are, unfortunately, absent from the capacity to empty certain environments, the lack of personnel, able to carry out these current responsibilities too? You'll see that's not the case. Some cities more developed can take on new responsibilities and should be given to them, but the question is what are we going to do with municipalities that do not have in their midst a graduate lawyer to put him in charge of the municipal administration. There are such municipalities in Serbia. We're talking about decentralisation here now, funding and everything else. In order to access serious business and to get into the right decentralisation move, it is first necessary to return those funds, to stabilise municipalities, and then to enter into an analysis and new concept of decentralisation that will entail changes in a series of system laws. This way, from the centralism of the government, which abolishes local self-government transfer funds, we enter anarchy where a semi-fadual system will be established in fact. You will have Serbia as one Federation of municipalities. That's what this is all about. It's not a matter of state, that's what's said here. Philosophy is the first municipality, then the regions, then the state. The state doesn't matter, it doesn't matter anything, the municipalities matter. This leads to the complete chaos and disappearance of the state as something that should be the basis for the gathering of citizens and the functioning and arrangement of a society. This law, alone, floating in the air, without having any contact with reality, will create huge and huge problems, and we are going back to the question and asking it here to the promoter – can he publicly say here that on the first rebalancing, he will vote that amount of transfer funds will be returned to local self-government 1.7 based on the gross social product that belongs to them, and if he does not receive support for it in government, will that government bring down? It's the only honest political relationship. We cannot hide anymore in gloves and say – we are in favour of returning the transfer, and then the ministers of the government vote on the government to abolish the transfer funds. Will you tear down the government if the money doesn't return to local self-government by the end of the year? That's our question, and it would be fair to have an answer here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56564	Thank you. Based on article 87, I'm setting a one-hour break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56565	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. Does anyone want a word by amendment to Article 2? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by the MP of the Edip Sheriffs. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56566	It would really be good if Mrs. Comic was present at the moment, and it would be good to invite the heads of the parliamentary groups of other ruling parties. This is one of the major amendments to this law and this is the amendment Mr Dinkic said was submitted by Dragan Djilas. He is formally the signator of this amendment, Mr. Oedipus of the Sheriffs, and this amendment, since the idea of the G 17 Group of MPs plus that, instead of 40% of local self-government units, there remains 80% in the future, this amendment reduces by 10%, i.e. to 70% of total earnings tax. This, I would say, is one of the more expensive amendments in the history of Serbian parliamentism, because by adopting this amendment on the DS proposal, and will be adopted by all other ruling parties, both G 17 plus and LDP and SPS and all others are responsible, thereby reducing the budget of the city of Belgrade by some 4,672,400,000 dinars. The amendment costs more than 4.5 billion dinars. You'll admit that these aren't the numbers that you can just flirt with, and it actually shows how seriously you approach these changes of law and shows that actually the SRS has been right from the beginning when we claim that all of this is a common scam. I also have a question here for Mr Dinkic, or a few questions for him. He said a total of 110 billion in Serbia annually is charged on behalf of the profit tax. If it is now increasing by about 40%, except in Belgrade where it increases by 30%, 40% of 110 billion is 44 billion. I finished my natural math high school, 40% of 110 billion is 44 billion. This should be added to this amount, which applies to the fact that so far you have not respected the amount of 1.7% of GDP relating to transfers in 2010, even according to Mr Dinkic, through reduced transfers of 16 billion, which means that you practically 60 new billions should be provided in 2012. Then it's really surprising what you wrote in the law, which is: "The financial resources needed to enforce this law. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget." As possible, I ask one logical question, that you in this review of yours will improve the state from municipality to municipality and from city to city claim that everyone will get more. Even Belgrade will receive six or seven billion dinars more than it was in the previous period. The same procedure will remain, i.e. the same amount of funds will remain on condition that there is no further reduction in the number of employees in Serbia, you will increase the transfer funds and will not change the amount of financial resources needed. It's just impossible. If you have a certain amount and a certain tax procedure from the state to the citizens, such a scenario would be possible only if there was an enormous jump in the number of employees. The predictions of such a bloom are, I may say, completely unrealistic. When I talk about this amendment and the position of the promoter, you have written that the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment. What you have stated in the light of this amendment, and I will read it to you. So it's an amendment that reduces 10% of the amount of funds that the city of Belgrade will receive. You say in a statement: "The amendment is proposed, given that the economic development of the city of Belgrade is relatively strong, and as such allows the city of Belgrade to be financed with 70% of the income tax paid to the employee's residence." I think it is important that we be honest to the end and, unlike you who spread all the demagogy when you leave Belgrade and spit on Belgrade and Belgrade citizens, you say that there's all the money going to Belgrade, the whole of Serbia is working and making money, and all the money goes to Belgrade, it's just not true. Officially, 40.2% of people working in Serbia are working in Belgrade, although the city of Belgrade is a quarter per capita, less than a quarter, or by the number of voters compared to Serbia, 40.2% of Serbian citizens working in Belgrade. Another official figure – 42.5% of the profit tax is collected from all over Serbia, which is the income collected in Belgrade. Probably because the average salaries in Belgrade, as well as living expenses, are significantly higher. Don't spread that demagogue again and don't try to spit on Belgrade when you're out of town. When you come to Belgrade -- then you say we didn't mean it that way, and the Belgrade citizens aren't so bad, because we expect a million and a half of them to give us a vote in the next campaign. Now the real question -- how big is the business of the city of Belgrade, really? If you claim that those four billion and 600 million dinars, or 10% of the profit tax is not needed in Belgrade, let us hear from what you're saying? You should have come out here and said how much the city of Belgrade is in charge of, say, how many other cities and municipalities are in charge of Serbia, and possibly, on this basis, draw the conclusion that there is a very good living in Belgrade and that we have some extra income, and therefore, Dragan Gilas can unlawfully, for his personal promotion to spend the money coming from the Belgrade city budget and which the poor citizens of Belgrade have to fill anyway. We never had a worse mayor in Belgrade's history, never in the history of the city of Belgrade, the mayor thus misusing funds from the city's budget, spending them unintendedly, for his personal promotion. A man goes and shares in Gojnik and Serbia, says – a Belgrade-based baby club. Who authorized him to use the money from the Belgrade city budget, and where is the provision in the Law on Local Self-Government, on the law on the capital, in the statutes of the city of Belgrade, which enables him to do so? Who allows him to go to share gifts, share gifts at home, share anything from the Belgrade City budget outside the territory of this local self-government unit? It's something that's simply not possible under the law. In time, you arrested the mayor of Arangelovac, Mr. Sabic of the SRS. You did this two days before the election, before the elections in Zemun and Vozdovac. The message that you sent to the public during the election silence for two days was that the radicals were thieves, which was arrested by the president of the municipality, and he was arrested for giving two climates to the local police administration and was arrested for rerouting funds, so instead of doing a piece of plumbing in a village, he finished his kindergarten. There was no abuse, but there were only funds transferred without a congregation decision. If you were to really apply these arches throughout Serbia, I don't think there would be enough jail time for all the officials, mayors and presidents of DS municipalities to enter them, because it would certainly be preceded by the worst mayor in Belgrade's history, Mr. Dragan Gilas. You claim Belgrade is able to finance these expenditures. Do you know what the situation is in Belgrade? You don't know. The city of Belgrade, it is a very well-guarded secret, the city of Belgrade is the most in debt in Serbia. Does anyone know how much, at least according to official reports, I'll prove to you afterwards that your official reports are incorrect, what is the public debt of the city of Belgrade at this time? We asked the state authorities for official information and we got it. This is on April 11th, or on March – no, this is on 31.12.2010, where it is said – the public debt of the city of Belgrade is 51,377,8720 dinars. In order for you to see how much this is compared to other cities in Serbia, I will read you the information for the city of Novi Sad. The town of Novi Sad has a debt of 1,582,000 dinars, Novi Sad, the second largest city in Serbia, and 51,377,000 dinars for Belgrade. This should also be added to this task from this last session of the City Assembly a week ago, when the city of Belgrade was in charge of an additional 2,800,000 dinars, which means that at this point, Belgrade's public debt is 54.17,000 dinars. Unfortunately, another session was announced in early June, so since we haven't had a single session in the past two years without a new decision on public debt, this public debt will likely be even bigger after the next session. The town of Nis, the third largest city in Serbia, has a debt of 612 million dinars – 612.568.000. So Nis which is three times, or five times or how many times, five times smaller than Belgrade has a debt that is 100 times smaller. So, realistically, the population is 20 times more in charge of the city of Belgrade than the city of Nis. You talk about living well in Belgrade, how bridges are built in Belgrade, how trams and trolleybuses are bought, and you keep quiet about the fact that everything has been done against the law. Trolleybuses, 83 trolleybuses are one of the items that did not enter this public debt. How is that possible? I'll explain. Without a financial plan, without security in the budget, one morning Dragan Gilas wakes up and says -- now the city of Belgrade, to be the best, most beautiful and most successful mayor, will buy 83 trolleybuses. A decision that has nothing to do with reality. At that point, the life span of Belgrade's trolleybuses is about nine years away, something that should be real, which is a European standard, it's up to 20 years old. Trolleybuses are not something that changes every two weeks and a man starts a public procurement for a billion and 900 million dinars, with several thousand dinars secured in the city's budget. What is it, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the ruling coalition, if it isn't public service? Of course, this is not paid in 2010 when public procurement is launched, it is paid over the next five years. What is it, if it's not a public debt? But Gilasu did not think to refer such a proposal to the city's Belgrade City Assembly so that a decision on public debt could be made. It's not here in this report that we got from the finance ministry, the public debt administration, which means that Belgrade's debt is not even that 54 billion and 200 million, but it's actually somewhere around 56 billion. In a similar way, dozens of other projects were launched, from apartments in Ivan Ribara, where a total of about a billion are launched and 600 million are public procurement, and 9,000 dinars are provided in the budget. If it's not a crime, I don't know what crime is. According to the Public Debt Act, local self-government can be owed up to 50% of its own income from the previous year. Belgrade's 2010 revenues are 59 billion 676 million, which means that the city's debt under the law is 29 billion. You're in charge of the city of Belgrade. When you spent those 29 billion 2009s, only because of Belgrade's Republic Assembly changed only that member of the Public Debt Act and added two positions, where it is said - could extremely be the amount of an unmistakable debt greater than 50% of the previous year's income, when it comes to long-term borrowing, not counting the period of rest of at least five years, and when the debt of investment expenditure is due. Do you know why these two billion and 800 million were the last ones we were in charge of, that is, what the authorities of DS, LDP, G17 plus, the SPS and others tasked all the citizens of Belgrade with? To paint some kindergartens. One for one, the recovery costs 800,000 euros. How big is this kindergarten and what kind of work it is when the recovery costs 800,000 euros, it will certainly be representatives of DS, G 17, LDP and others, but it is only part of it. So then there's a little bit of water pipe, a little bit for this, a little bit for that, but there's nothing there that's a capital investment project. The capital investment project is a bridge. It's a metro, it's a bypass around the city of Belgrade, but a 200-square garden can't be a capital investment. The arrangement of Karadjordje's street in Belgrade, Herzegovina Street and another 20 others is listed there, some 20 metres long, so is that capital investment expenditure for the city of Belgrade? I don't think so. Secondly, he says - he can be extremely in charge. What's remarkable about you sitting in a session in charge of another billion? So this is something that just no one can justify. Meanwhile, you asked the Ministry of Finance for a debt of 17 billion and 500 million dinars this time. So do you know how long you'll be able to reach three budgets? Otherwise, this authority is not in charge, as Dragan Gilas has repeatedly claimed that the city of Belgrade is not over-indebted, because we have not crossed 15% for next year and that is the question, because no one knows what the next budget will be. At this point, the deficit of the city's cash register is between 12 billion and 13 billion dinars, and for the last three years, every following year the city's budget of Belgrade is getting smaller and smaller, the transfers are getting smaller and now you will end them by this law and completely. So you can't convince us here that it's possible for the city of Belgrade to finance itself because you've led the city of Belgrade to a beggar stick and what's worst you don't owe for a year, two, three, but you're in charge of the next 30 or 40 years. I've already shown on several occasions this paper. For those of you who don't know what this is, this is a list of the Belgrade city's duties from 2011 to 2044, because you're in charge of the next 30 generations. No one has authorized you to be in charge of the next 30 generations. What do you think the next government will do? This one has more, you can see for yourself, so it's been 34 years long, and then you come and say, yes, but the Belgraders are driving in new trolley buses, driving in new trolleybuses, but their grandchildren will pay off those trolleybuses. None of the spending in the city of Belgrade is made of real funds. The trams you bought also bought on a deadline of who knows how many years, and that will pay for the grandkids of those pensioners who think they're doing well because they're driving in new trolley buses and new trams. You were supposed to show your skill and ability by doing something from real sources in the city of Belgrade. And that income you had, you destroyed it. Construction directorate in Belgrade every two months, at every session of the City Assembly, changes in plans and programmes, changes in plans and investments, why? Because incomes don't come true. What you planned from your own resources until a month ago, you're now looking for a new assignment. Therefore, Mr Dinkic, you are required to explain that your party, who has been participating in the city's government for ten years, has led to nearly 60 billion in debt and that is public. I said how secret it is for trolleybuses, for trams, for all other investments that have not been passed and public debt decisions in the City Assembly, which is illegal, no one can even count. How do you think you can repay what you've done so far, let alone predict what you're predicting, which is some new task, so you say -- Belgrade doesn't need a new 10%, Belgrade can do without it. This scam is something that can't go through. So, you have to take responsibility once. Go ahead and tell the public how many and why you put them in charge, and then tell that demagogue story again that local self-government can do it on its own, because local self-government, or those who run the city of Belgrade, proved a hundred times not to be able to do it alone, but should not let them go to work alone. It would be best if we didn't go, because then they couldn't do this much damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56567	Twenty times used by the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to the next report, MP Srdjan Milivojevic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform you that we will be working after 18.00 hours today. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56568	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to read the amendment of which we have heard a 20-minute lecture on the character and work of Dragan Gilas. The amendment, which we should have discussed earlier, reads: "Article 2 is amended and reads – Article 15 adds Article 3, which reads as follows: "exceptionally from point 1 of Article 1 of this Article, the local municipal tax is not introduced to highlight the company in the business space of the economic operator, the entrepreneur who performs old and artistic crafts and the tasks of domestic work for which the relevant certificate of the Ministry of Business has been issued. "I understand the stage of Dragan Gilas. It is not easy to lose the election to Dragan Gilas and then watch a party fall apart and it is not easy to lose the election several times in continuance from Dragan Gilas. I understand those who until the day before yesterday were crying on the Danube coast in Zemun because they lost the election to Dragan Gilas and I understand those who have made a diplomatic problem with Bulgaria, because the Danube waterway has grown so much, that the floods have caused by their crying. Gentlemen, I understand your tears, I'm sorry, it's all right, however, your discussions neither understand nor justify. They are, above all, malicious, they do not touch the above-mentioned amendment, they aim to disrupt the high credibility enjoyed by Dragan Gilas and city authority in the city of Belgrade. Comparedly, you've never had a chance to run the city of Belgrade. You tried to rule, but you couldn't. After that, your party was disintegrated several times to components and separations, but the comparisons are done, based on what you said, defending this amendment, I am Kruševljanin, I have a good mayor, but I am sorry that the Mayor of Kruševac is not Dragan Gilas. I think it's one of the best mayors in Belgrade's history. When we talk about the debt and that some debts will be paid back, I am proud today to have recently paid back the debts that the town of Kruševac made in 1974, because those debts were made by people who had a vision. In 1974, a water supply system was built for the town of Kruševec. Today, when we drink drinking drinking drinking water, we remember how we were paying back that debt, but we are aware that because of our debt, we have had the opportunity to be rationally in charge, to be in charge, to be in charge of the benefits of the generations that were paying back. I remember the scene when I was a student driving by city transport in Belgrade, and I was driving on city transport in Belgrade, I was never a student, and in the mid-90s you couldn't get on a bus or a trolleybus, as my colleague warned me, and there were no buses, especially you couldn't drive because there was no electricity. Of course, those responsible for the lack of electricity at the time, as well as those responsible for the lack of a bus, are today criticising the possibility of Belgrade's citizens driving in a way that looks like civilized people. However, we will not only drive, but we will do something to ensure that citizens, not only Belgrade, but all citizens from all parts of this country, are driving in the direction of Europe. That way, there are those who will be clipping in those wheels, there are those who will pour nails on the road, there are those who will keep turning signs and directions, they may not have been confused, there are those who will tell us that the Earth is not round, that the planet is a flat plate, there are those who will jealously point to something that is not true. There are those who will say that some acts have been passed by the law. All these purchases were made by respecting the tender procedure. None of the public procurement participants complained. If anyone has any objections to public procurement in the city of Belgrade, let the prosecution know about it. He doesn't have to be afraid to go to the D.A.'s office, he won't ask him how much money he spent on travel expenses, it's not in the prosecution's jurisdiction. On the other hand, if you can't talk me out of it, Mr. Markovic, try to keep me quiet. It's not hard, believe me. (President: No direct address, please. ) There is something not clear about Mr. Duvnjak, too, and we will arrange for him to receive additional instruction. Mr. Duvnjak, don't worry. (President: No direct address, please. I ask the People's Messenger of the Duvnjak to stop throwing and to break the Rules of Procedure. ) So, I understand the fascination of Dragan Gilas, I understand the fascination of those who have lost the election several times, whose party after that fell apart, they blame Dragan Gilas and DS, but before you load a heavy burden on someone else's back, you accept the easy burden of condemning yourself. See what kind of city register you left in Arangelovac, Kruševec and other cities that had an accident to try out in your exercise of power. As for Dragan Gilas, I am absolutely confident that the citizens of Belgrade will know in the next elections that they appreciate, but will first of all know that they appreciate the generation that will live in this city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56569	Six minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56570	Mrs. Komic, I call on article 27. I expected, since you boast that you know the Rules of Procedure well, to distinguish between amendments to Article 2 and Article 3. We are now on the amendment to Article 3 and you were obliged to warn the predecessor that we were done with Article 2 first thing in the morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56571	People's MP, in order not to risk you getting a warning, we are currently under discussion on the amendment to Article 2 where the amendment with correction has been submitted by MP Edip Sheriff. Before you seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to consult the secretary of your parliamentary group or your colleagues on what is being discussed. Thank you. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants the word again. Time is available for 20 minutes and 30 seconds. You have no right to a replica. Would you like to use MPs' time? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Mrs. Komic, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has been commenting on my address all along. People's MP, you don't have the right to a replica. Do you want to use MEP time? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56572	I want to use the time of the parliamentary group, but I really think this is extremely incorrect, because it is quite obvious that Mr Milivojevic has been commenting on my presentation all along. (President: National MP, use the time of the parliamentary group and talk about the subject of the agenda, not the replica. I use it. Allow me. May I? (President: Of course, go ahead. All right, but don't interrupt me. Really, when you disrupt my mind stream... (President: People's Parliament, every time you break the Rules of Procedure, you try to use the time available to you as a time group of MPs as a replica. ) It seems that the afternoon is a different Rules of Procedure than the one that was valid in the morning, but we will adapt.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56573	National MP, I now warn you that you are under obligation to listen to the chairman when he reminds you of the obligation to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: Give me back the time. ) People's MP, you didn't get your word, because you don't want to hear what your obligation is when you get your word. (Inema Sarovic, from the place: I thought you were done.) I now warn you most seriously that this will end in a criminal act. Please, you've been given your word on the subject of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56575	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, you're very kind indeed. So the topic of the agenda is the Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. the unit of local self-government and what I put out in the previous part is something that is absolutely true. So, the official city of Belgrade right now is the most in debt in Serbia. The total debt of all local self-government, all cities, all municipalities, including the city of Belgrade, is 74,780,000,000. Of that, nearly 60 billion are the debt of the city of Belgrade, along with the debt of two city municipalities in Belgrade. Thus, the city of Belgrade carries three quarters of total public debt in Serbia. Is that the truth that you're uncomfortable with, Mr. Milivoevich, so you're telling stories that have absolutely nothing to do with the subject? It's easy for you because you have the support of the chairman, so he'll never interrupt you. (President: The People's Parliament, you've just been deluding the public, you're jeopardizing the reputation of the National Assembly, and I'm giving you my first warning. Go on. You asked, Mr. Milivoevich, how much is the charge in Arangelovec. The charge in Arangelovac is 180,357,000. How much is that compared to 60 billion in Belgrade? One trolleybus costs 230,000 euros. Eighty trolleybuses cost over 1,800,000 dinars. Where'd that money come from, Mr. Milivoevich, who's gonna pay for it? Will Dragan Gilas, the worst mayor in Belgrade's history, or will he pay him for whom you claim to be the best, and besides having for trolleybuses and trams and for who knows what else, have enough for his political promotion throughout Serbia, so he can go make bridges, build houses, share cars, share gifts from Belgrade's baby club? Would he be better off patching up the holes in the Belgrade budget first, so he doesn't have to take a new public debt at every next session? The media are closed to Belgrade absolutely. In the Republic of Serbia, you can talk about anyone, you can criticize anyone, you just can't criticize the city of Belgrade and Dragan Gilas, because when you do, then you've committed a mortal sin, and it won't allow any media to transmit, it won't do the printed media, it won't do the electronic media. Why? Because he controls, you know, through advertising and advertising practically all the media. Somewhere around 180 million dinars last year only for printed media went out of the city's register, who knows how many hundreds of millions for electronic media. Then how do you think anyone stamps what everyone should normally stamp that it's their community and that they really care about their city, about their parents, about their children and about their grandchildren? Don't talk about demagogy here, but if you have any other information or if any of the information I've read isn't correct, come out and say it. So, you're in pain that this government, the city government, is never worse, that it's composed against any principle. The only principle was to prevent the SRS from coming to power at all costs and you are talking about tenders in Belgrade. You say they're all right, no one's complaining. Come on, name five tenders in Belgrade that have been held in the last year and who participated in them. You have no idea. The state audit institution first entered to check the financing of Belgrade for the first time this year. It's just a question of whether they'll have the courage to do this job properly and bring all this crime to light. If they have the courage, then make sure it doesn't go well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56576	Four minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. There are 82 minutes and 10 seconds available.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56577	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by electing a People's MP, I resigned as a councilman in SO Kruševac because I believe that man can do only one job, two – difficult. Someone who is a city councilman in the city of Belgrade and a MP is obviously confused because he does not know where he is coming to work, whether this is the Belgrade Assembly or this is the Serbian Parliament. Then I know that the tables are well hung and that this is an institution. When I enter, it says the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that man knows where he came to work. But in any case, when we talk about what is the subject of this amendment and what is being said by attacking this amendment, and in fact by attacking DS and Dragan Gilas, it is clear that it is implementing the complex of the defeated. Unfortunately, the defeated complex is strengthened by constant defeats in the election. There are various therapies on how to cure this complex, but it's not in my domain, I'm still just a folk MP and I can't talk about it, and I'm an educated engineer for livestock farming, but I understand very well how public tenders are conducted, I understand very well how public tenders are organised, I know very well what the prosecutor's job is, I know very well what the auditor's doing. I've never heard of anyone starting an impeachment initiative for Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas was elected mayor of Belgrade on 19 August 2008, the 19 August transformation. I think that on that day, we have transformed the political scene of Serbia into a better one. I think it's a red letter in the calendar of the Serbian Orthodox Church, and a black letter in the calendar of some other political activities of those parties that fell apart afterwards. I understand their grief, complexes, dissatisfaction and anger, but I do not justify the intention of treating Dragan Gilas' own dissatisfaction and anger in such a way that there will be untrues in this room when it comes to the city administration, Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas, about Deputy President Dragan Gilas. I understand the intention that this amendment, which I just read, is to discuss how much Belgrade is in charge and how much of Arangelovic is in charge. What the city of Arangelovac has of its inhabitants, unfortunately, stands in four Belgrade soloists. It is not appropriate to take the size of Arangelovac and the responsibilities of the City of Arangelovac and the City of Belgrade, as it is not appropriate to compare the City of Belgrade with any other city in Serbia. The fact is that Belgrade is more built than the rest of Serbia. I must tell you, I mind that Kruševac, Vrnjačka Banja, Cačak, Arile are not building with this intensity that builds Belgrade. I wish Kruševac would once again be the capital as he once was, in his history. I wish Dragan Gilas had the opportunity to be mayor of Kruševec City. I'm sure an investment swing would be good, but I, as a man who belongs to this country and the town of Krusevec, who has delegated me to be a national MP, will never be jealous of those who are better, more successful than us, but I will strive and strive to achieve their quality, that what they have done in their local environments, and I recognise as well, I am implementing in the city from which I come. That what I see well with my coalition partners from G17 plus, from Unity Serbia, from PUPS I implement in the City of Krusevec and say that's good. I'll never be ashamed of what's good in the SRS, to say and that's good, that I'll use this idea too. Unfortunately, I can see that I've moved some of them, that they want to cry. If I were to give out empty, white paper and tell someone -- let's tell me what you did right for a city, or Serbia, I'm sure they'd give me back empty paper. Thank them for not doing more than they could under the circumstances, because this was too much for one life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56578	Five minutes used by the MP's group. In the words of MP Aleksandar Martinovic, so Nemanja Sarovic. Time is available for 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56579	I responded on the basis of Article 104(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as Mr Srdjan Milivojevic spoke offensively about the SRS and our parliamentary group. I think it was your duty to stop him, or to disable him from breaking the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Milivojevic, as you can see, and I hope you see and hear well, the SRS has not fallen apart, and none of the MPs sitting here seem decomposed. As you can see, we are very argumentative and very professionally discussing all points of the agenda. As deputy president of the parliamentary group, I am proud of the fact that the SRS has the most qualitative parliamentary group. Unfortunately, all of you who, with the help of Tomislav Nikolic and foreign ambassadors and foreign couples, tried to destroy the SRS, failed in this, as you can see, and every day the SRS is growing stronger and stronger. I think it was your duty, Mrs. Komic, to interrupt Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's exposure, which he probably thought was so, in a funny way, expressed about Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, and in fact his illusions about how he was a graduate agricultural engineer for livestock farming, if I'm not wrong. Such illusions are very rude, very impertinent and absolutely inappropriate to parliamentary debate. I urge you, Mrs Comic, to apply the Rules of Procedure and the MPs of the SRS with the same strictness, but also to the MPs of your party. Double arches, absolutely nowhere to be welcomed... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Of course not in the National Assembly. So, I ask you, in the future, to protect the MPs of the SRS from the insults that come from the order of the parliamentary group that you yourself belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56580	Thank you. There's no breach of Article 104. Your argument that the word "falling SRS" is offensive far from any definition of insult. "Political cleavage", "political division", "degradation" is allowed to be used and is not an insult. In your explanation, I did not have the same archaic, which means that we do not listen carefully and that MP Srdjan Milivojevic was interrupted twice as he spoke at the moment he turned to the direct address of the MPs. You want to talk again about the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Is he injured? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56581	So, Mrs. Komic, a member of 27 has been injured. There's a big difference between the term "separation" and the term "decoction." When you say it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56582	People's MP, I am now asking for a careful explanation, as Article 27 clearly implies how I can harm the Rules of Procedure. If you want, you are not satisfied with the explanation, you can only ask to vote, each other your attempt is a reason to give a warning. So either you choose to vote, that the National Assembly vote on being a injured member of 104, or you bring yourself and me into an awkward situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56583	So, Mrs. Komic, I'm going to risk using the parliamentary law this Rules of Procedure allows me, if you think that's the reason for the punishment, go ahead. So there's a big difference, Mrs. Comic, between words...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56584	People's MP, it's not about punishing the use of rights, it's about abuse of rights, and you're now making...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56585	... I've been trying to speak for two minutes, as long as the Rules of Procedure allows me, and you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56586	People's MP, the Rules of Procedure allow you to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure then as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56587	That's exactly what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56588	You're not trying to do that, you're trying to break the Rules of Procedure by talking about the explanation I gave. Pridev, the verb, "decomp", "disintegrated the SRS" in the sense that it's not an insult, because it's used in the political language for division, the political divide, and it's not an object of insult, so you can ask to vote, you can't use it as a cause...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56589	Can I use two minutes as long as the Rules of Procedure allows me?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56590	You can't break the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56591	I can't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56592	You can't, if you want to abuse that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56593	I'm trying, Mrs. Comic, to explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. You think the explanation of the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a crime?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56594	No, the abuse is that you want to talk about my explanation. National MP Nemanja Sarovic. It's available for 16 minutes. You want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56595	I'll just talk to my representative for a little while who said it was too much for him to do two jobs. You know, someone can do two quality jobs, some three, some one. (President: People's Parliament, on the amendment. And someone can't do one. As far as the Aryans are concerned, I'm here... (President: People's Parliament, on the amendment. There's no Aryan in the amendment. Thank you. I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56596	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Momcilo Duvnjak throws away for the third time. I give you my first warning. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Momcilo Duvnjak continues to cast. I give you a second warning. MP Igor Becic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56597	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, this law already looks like a criminal returning to the scene of a crime because he who participated in reducing transfers to local self-government is now trying to bring them back to this law. As you know, in the previous two years, non-intentional transfers have been reduced by over 40% or approximately 36.8 billion dinars. The proposed amount of the transfer shown in the 2011 budget memorandum will total the transfer reduction rate for 2009-2011 of about 58 billion dinars, taking into account the estimated and planned GDP for 2010 and 2011, which is more than 42% of the prescribed amount for these three years or two thirds of the funds to be provided for 2009 and 2010. Also, in his afternoon debate, the proposing representative said he knew exactly what he wanted with this law. He thinks he's cheating on Serbian citizens again, but I don't think in this case he's going to do exactly what he imagined, despite the fact that by accepting a large number of amendments, the ruling majority has managed to reach a majority to vote on this law. As a parliamentary group, we wanted to amend, and we submitted eight quality amendments, we tried to change such a bad law, regardless of what the proposing representative did not want any amendments to accept on the Committee on Local Self-Government. We have seen that in the previous period, the government has been trying in various ways to impose various problems and resources on local self-government. Let's say, through jubilee awards that she has transferred to the burden of local self-government without a basis so that school employees block the giro accounts for which local self-government is in charge, where they transfer funds for material costs and then some funds are removed from the local budget. Also, here is an example where the Vrbas municipality is now blocked by 20 million dinars, where a 17-year court dispute in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia is also being held over some land of the social enterprise Metalbuilding and where the sued Republic of Serbia and today the municipal budget of the Vrbas municipality is blocked by 20 million dinars. It'll go back on the burden of the citizens. Again, it is an indication that the government is a stepmom according to local self-government. We wanted this amendment to amend Article 2, where we say that Article 15 adds Article 3 and 4 which reads as follows: "The amount of the annual fee referred to in point 1) to highlight the company in the business space cannot be determined and charged in excess of 1% of the annual income of the legal persons". Also, no fee referred to in point (1) of Article 1 shall be paid to highlight the company in a business space where only the work of old and art crafts and the transport of those products is carried out. The fee referred to in item 1(1) for highlighting the company in the business space – do not pay for sports associations, cultural institutions and associations of persons with special needs. The amendment suggests that the amount of tax on a company that stands out on a business space is limited to 1% of income, to protect small legal persons from disproportionate financial burden, especially given the company's emphasis on business space, which is intended to mark premises rather than advertising and that it is about to highlight the name on the door of the apartment. In many municipalities and cities, this amount of tax to highlight a company in business space is inappropriately high for small businesses that often have only one or a few employees. Today, in the debate, we saw that there were many such examples. It is therefore necessary to limit that amount by law to the constraint of the absolute amount, since the proposed amount of two average earnings may be too much burden to someone, and on the other hand, it is small if large enterprises are concerned. In addition, we believe that there is no reason to limit the amount of tax to the company's exposure outside of business space or public premises, which already has the character of advertising. We also suggest that the fees be released from the old trade, but by not paying the tax for the space in which this activity is carried out, whether or not it's a legal person or not. a very serious activity, which is a very relative term anyway. This would also stimulate entrepreneurs who do not have a major activity, as an unfavourable activity because they are helping and developing art old crafts, in order to preserve national traditions and culture. Namely, it should be borne in mind that activity can be difficult to survive on its own, without the help of other competitive activities or tourism organisations. Also, these fees should be free of both sports and other organisations and associations, as well as persons with special needs and vision of assistance, as we can see that these organisations do not have the basic means of survival and existence in these conditions either. You also mentioned that sometimes in local self-government public officials can see more where some funds should be spent, unlike the republican organs. I think that's what you should have considered when, say, the vaccines were bought. They could also be planned at some local level and saved now sixm euros that are being accused of being abused by the health ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56598	Six minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56599	Mrs. Komic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, which says the president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and regarding Article 107, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. You have injured the Rules of Procedure by selectively applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You just told me for a moment that the Arandelovite was gone in the amendment and told me I had one warning and threatened to get another one. I had to stop my exposure. Before that, Mr. Milivojevic was talking about the Aryan, and that was fine. Now Mr. Becic was talking about Wurbas. So, Wrabba has. There's an A.R.A. when someone from the DS is talking, but there's no telling when someone from the U.S.S. I talked about the subject all the time. The theme is to fund units of local self-government. I cited concrete examples of practice and explained why it was important not to adopt a certain amendment. You have proposed and accepted the amendment, and I have explained it and it is my right and my duty why this amendment must not be accepted. I cited the example of Belgrade, as well as the example of the Arangelite. You claimed there was no Arandelovian, and now suddenly there is one. So, I ask you, Mrs. Comić, not to apply the rules of the Rules of Procedure in the future. It is obvious to everyone, both your colleagues and all the MPs, regardless of the parliamentary group they belong to, that you were applying some other Rules of Procedure this morning. This morning, everyone answered for the line, and who was mentioned and who wasn't. Please, just be patient. [[President: National MP, the right to replica is not the subject of breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] In these two minutes, I've been very serious about it. (President: Messenger of the people, according to the same article by which you have called, I am obliged to give you a warning if you abuse this right. In a desire to maintain good parliamentary practice, I interrupt you first, so I warn you that the right to the replica is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that I and I will exclude you from the opportunity to give notice. And ye shall receive it unto knowledge, or ye shall not receive it: it is your pleasure. I'm not satisfied with the explanation. I'd like to vote in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56600	Thank you. There is no selective application of the Rules of Procedure, with insight into the stenogram you will see very clearly. In caring for order and the application of members who define the agenda, all MPs have equal rights, the only problem we have in common is that our ears do not listen to what our mouths say. Well, then we don't think what's right for us has to be true for others. It's all the same for everyone. In voting day, the National Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was spoken of by MP Nemanja Sarovic. People's MP Veroljub Arsic or National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic? National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56601	Since the time of the authorised representative, just to add a brief explanation for the amendment to Article 2. I did not report for the replica today when counterpart Chikiriz of the ZES commented that the Prosperity Group of Serbia has set Serbia by proposing amendments that the tax, what we call a company, can be equal to 1% of the legal person's annual income. First of all, it is that it has not accurately quoted the amendment as a solution, because the amendment provides for an upper limit, meaning no greater than 1%, which certainly allows the local self-government to determine that percentage at a lower level. It is perfectly justified that the legislator of this law made an observation that we did not say, and in relation to which data, from which time period we predict it to be 1% of the legal person's annual income. Here's to say, we've done this fully consciously to ask the promoter, and based on what development data, what GDP data, based on which data from what year on the number of inhabitants this bill was made? Namely, all the estimates of the financial effects of this law, which are what should be commended and said, the money to the citizens where it was created, actually falls into the water if I tell you that analysts dealing with the assessment of the effects of the law, the macroeconomic movements, use the data that someone who works for it is the most professional and someone whose data is used, which is the analysis of the math, the macroeconomic projections. It is these experts, analysts, who are not even from the IMF this time, who are not even representatives of the Fiscal Council, who have no fresher GDP data than from 2005. The number of residents for 23 cities in the assessment of the effects of this law that we did, we evaluated on the basis of 2009 and we were only able to achieve approximate results, i.e. effects and the application of this law regarding local self-government. The reason why we deliberately submitted this amendment is contained in the following: taxes, taxes. If you want to develop an economy, they have to be determined in relation to the company's income. They shall not be paid out of the value of the assets at your disposal and shall go to the detriment of that property. In order for this revenue to be realistically shown, we must return the authority to the accounting profession, through the Accounting Act and the authority of the audit profession, where you cannot pay and order any balance or assessment of any accounting statement. We do not have it in Serbia, unfortunately, and it is the job of all of us economists to return to the profession what is called authority, to ensure that the data is reliable and that, based on them, we can collect and charge taxes and taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56602	Three minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Representative Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56603	I just want to tell you why we refused this amendment. It's actually the worst amendment that's ever been given in this assembly, exactly that amendment that you've been talking about, because it probably seems to you that 1% of the company's total income is a small number. It's huge, 1% of the total income that companies pay in the name of the company, it's robbing these companies. It's huge, it's not 1% of the profit, it's 1% of the total income. A constant conference of cities and municipalities was thinking about introducing 0.2, so we're making an analysis that's huge, too, and let's say one, that's five times what's high. So 1% of the maximum income would mean an increase in the company's multiple times compared to those that are in force today, which in some cities are too big. That would mean that companies are from 20 million to 100 million dinars in some cases. This would allow all companies that are seriously working in Serbia to literally retire. The only reason we didn't accept the amendment is because it was filed by the SNS, but because this amendment is disastrous, the worst of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56604	Right on line, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56605	I expected you as someone who was a finance minister to know the basic rule that taxes are determined in accordance with the economic power of the taxpayers and that whoever has more should pay, and I say – not the one who has, but the one who earns more should pay more. That's the logic you in Serbia forgot. You all in the government know how to distribute what others collect, but you don't know any other way to create an ambience to make a profit. That's what the data says, unequivocally and very brutally. The number of employees of a million who are supposed to support everything in this Serbia, says the number of companies that are losers, but also says what you through subsidies, spending twice as much money on opening new jobs, and today pouring crocodile tears over funds that have been denied by local self-government. You personally paid jobs from 2,000 to 10, past laws, regulations, setting priorities and employees, and today you're talking about wanting to keep a job in local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56606	Proposer representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56607	Let's try to get back on the subject. It doesn't matter if a company has 500m euros in revenue if it has 499.999.000 expenditures, it's important what is the profit. If you taxed total income, not profit, then you'd probably have a sales tax on total income, not corporate income tax in the world. We have to have the same logic at the firm. I'm just telling you, you probably had a good intention, but logic is wrong, to make total income a basis for taxation. I also think that some of the laws that have passed in this assembly that have imposed even seems to be small amounts of 0.2 to 0.3% of total income are actually bad. It's not good. The company needs to see how much expenses it has, not just revenues. If we tax income without knowing what the expenditures are, we come to the wrong conclusions. You have to tax what's really earned, what's profit, so the difference between income and expenditure. I'm just saying this from a professional point of view, this has nothing to do with politics. This is also the reason why there is a profit tax, that is, on profits, not total corporate income tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56608	Two minutes, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56609	You might be right only if you were honest enough to read the amendment as it was written. You made up the word "total." She doesn't exist at all in the amendment's proposal. No one would have thought of taxing neither gross, but the net income left to the companies, but that kind of indetermination that you're trying to plant is talking about next. When I tell you that you've been sharing income with subsidies and donations for each job, i.e. the full budget by paying VAT for the purchase of basic needs of citizens, you haven't provided an explanation here whether the tax is paid by all or privileged and large taxpayers, you don't pay taxes, and even today we have a story about whether you should publish the lists of those who really owe the tax. You did not give the citizens information about whether the tax is paid by those to whom you financed a job with so much money and how much of the municipalities remained denied because you pointed fingers at some companies and said they should be restructured. Who needs to get a job internship if these companies have been operating under the law, according to the banking system that you have revitalised, following the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, which were to pay taxes and contributions, or today is one of the first jobs in this country to pay taxes from all so that this budget can be filled properly? My main objection was, while there was a rain of gold and money from privatisations whose losses you covered? Postage savings. Whose recapitalisation did we pay out of that budget? Commercial banks. Whose debts were we covering? Stock reserves. Who made them? And today we pay over local self-government, which is the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56610	Two minutes. The word has a proposing representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56611	I can debate with you both about hooking up and football games, but you didn't mention that with your amendment. You're talking again about topics that aren't written here. For the sake of the public, I'll read what you suggested. "The amount of the annual fee referred to in point 1 of the item 1 to highlight the company in the business space cannot be determined on the salary of more than 1% of the legal person's annual income." So neither did you say net income nor did you say get, you said 1% of the annual income. If you already say you understand accounting, you know what 1% of your annual income means. That's 1% of the company's total income. There's no term for net income because it's profit, it's profit. If you say 1% of your annual income, you mean the total income of the company, and in that sense, perhaps unconsciously, out of ignorance, but you are essentially proposing multiple company increases in Serbia. I just want to point that out, and you go all the time, that's the method, some other topics you didn't even mention here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56612	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56613	I'd be glad if you had that versatility and the hooking around, but that skill doesn't matter here and it doesn't apply, so it's too much for you. Since I'm a woman and a mother, all these handiworks I know I do, but it's important for my children and my family, and here you'll show how you've made knots and complicated the transfer story when we get to the next amendment, Article 3, where you'll see just how professional you are, but also well-intentioned when you want to make transfers of solidarity to local self-government. So much for your level.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56614	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56615	Chairman, is there a word as one of the amendment applicants, or am I using the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56616	National MP Selection Becic used two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56617	You didn't charge him with those two minutes, or you didn't take it away. He spoke for a little over six minutes, and you said it was from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56618	Yeah, the secretary takes two minutes. I'm sorry, I didn't exactly say that at the moment. So, minus two minutes. If you want to use two minutes now, we'll do the bidding. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected more from the former multiple ministers, at least when it comes to this Article 2. I cannot link the amount of the company to whether local self-government will attract investors, entrepreneurs and businesses in its territory. First, in general, when it comes to the company and the cab payment, it is, in my opinion, a strange method of taxation, because it is taxing something that the other has built, created and then decided to do some work and decided to hire workers, earn some income, and then, on the very registration of the company or the independent shop, it has to pay some kind of company. With our amendment, we predicted the upper limit. Local self-government can determine the lower limit. It's that big difference between your amendment to this law and our amendment, on the one hand. On the other hand, Mr. Authorized Proposer, I don't know what makes this, whether gross or net, is it 55,000 at this point or some 34,000-35,000? We don't even know what kind of law you've written, and I see you see the problem with that now. Mr. Former Multiple Ministers, it's not those taxes that affect the economy. They're a burden. They should be paid to a relatively economically powerful taxpayer. It can't be the same company as the joint multinational company and for an independent trading store. To be clear, investors are drawn to the municipal infrastructure, whether urban building land is arranged, whether it has connections to the plumbing and sewerage, whether it has built road infrastructure, whether it has heat, whether it has gasification, how far away it is from the highway, how far away it is from the waterways, how far away it is from the railways. That's what you were supposed to take care of when you were a minister, now that you're an MP, where did you get that ex-post wit? So, when we want to talk about something and the interests of local self-government, we can talk about it for days, because all the laws that were passed from local self-government were your idea. With local self-government, you've transmitted in a rather corrupt way as the original income of property tax to citizens living in the territory of municipalities. At the time, you were the finance minister, and our colleague here, Vlade Ilic, was the director of the Tax Administration. You transferred to local self-government taxes that were the hardest to charge. You said it was in the interest of local self-government, on the one hand. On the other hand, most branches of the republican tax administration did not have databases on citizens' assets to transfer them to local self-government. Secondly, all the time you've been trying to limit the number of employees in local self-government, I can't say it's wrong, and on the other hand, you've been introducing the tax administration into a local self-government that has to have its own director, who must have his employees, who must have his perpetrators. That's the demagogue we've been serving here the whole time since this debate was about funding local self-government. I am surprised all these years when you were minister that you should not subsidise jobs but should subsidize what is produced and, if it comes to exports, what is exported, and this is how we subsidise the air with the risk that we will never make any revenue from it into the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56620	The word is Mr. Pejcic Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56621	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, in this discussion of mine, I may even repeat myself because I haven't heard an adequate answer from Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. I must say that this is one political project of the then G17 plus, now the URS, one pre-election law, since the party G17 was then, now the URS, marginalized by the DS. They had to find one exit strategy. Even Mr. Mladjan Dinkic resigned as Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, and then, as I said, they had to find a political story for the next election. They found this story in the form of regionalization and decentralisation. I'm afraid this story of regionalisation and decentralisation is a one-election trick and resembles those promises we had in the 2008 pre-election campaign, when we promised all of Serbia's adult citizens 1,000 euros, when we talked about pensions, 70% of our personal income, when we talked about 200,000 new jobs. That's why I say it's a pre-election trick and this law won't even live. I am afraid that this law does not have the support of the ruling majority, since we have 122 signatories, that the MPs of the duchy Hungarians did not sign this initiative to pass one of these laws, and this large number of amendments indicate that we do not have a majority, but we will see it in the voting day. One fundamental question arises - why is it that just before the election to pass one of these laws? That's what he says in favor of my weight at the beginning. In fact, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and his party were sitting in the government when the damage was i.e. When the government stole 50 billion dinars from local self-government, and it was able to react, it was also able to react the moment the DSS launched the initiative, i.e. She filed criminal charges against the prime minister, as well as against former Minister Mrs Dragutinovic. Mr. Mladjan Dinkic said that Mr. Cvetkovic did nothing or interfered in his business, so he could support our initiative for these reasons. I've listed this effect of the law and regarding Leskovac, you'll allow me to ask you, since I have some exact information, since I come from that place. Leskova, who has 23 thousand and 500 employees, is now slightly less, as you have passed the Law on the reduction of the number of employees in local self-government, 314 workers are less than last year, and 720 workers in local self-government across Serbia have been fired. There are only 314 workers in Leskovac. Many of your directors have worked on social maps, among other things, have asked for workers to state what kind of political commitment workers are to leave and trust me that 90% of DSS and SRS workers have been expelled from municipal administrations and public enterprises. The government tried to help local self-government by in fact inventing the Law on Aid for Construction Operations, and for the first time in Leskovac, Mr Dinkic, we will get one solar power plant, the sixth in Europe. There are five in Europe. So far, three in Germany, two in Spain, and we didn't know that... (President: Mr. Pericic, it is my duty to warn you on the subject. Thank you. Yeah, I'm just back on the subject, so I'll go talk to the firm later. The hottest place in Serbia, we didn't know it was the birthplace of our mayor, Velika Boljanica. Believe me, that's where that private solar power plant is built, right on his uncle's property. When it comes to companies, we had the biggest companies in Serbia, so we brought one discretionary right and you took part in that government, that the president of the municipality determined the tax on companies, so we only brought new taxes at the third session, when we saw that no serious businessman came to Leskovac or to open some new jobs. What I wanted to say to you, this would not have occurred if we had respected the Constitution and that certain laws had been passed by 31 December 2008 and that this Constitution and that it had the opportunity for balanced regional development. If we had passed public property laws and a set of financial laws by that date, we would now not have talked about who is the author of regionalisation or decentralisation of Serbia, who is the head of all this, but the state itself, by initiative, could talk about even regional development. The Democratic Party of Serbia certainly advocates the development and promotion of this even regional development, where local self-government would be the bearers of this regional development itself. Without strong local self-government and the transfer of certain rights to those local self-government, there is no regional development. I'm afraid, Mr. Dinkic, that regionalization of expensive toys is in the hands of the URS and in your hands. It would be best for all of us to withdraw this law from this assembly procedure and achieve a political consensus, and only then to talk about real regionalisation and decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56622	The word is Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56623	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I thought I was not answering for a word about the debate in particular, because the LDP parliamentary group has made its position clear in the debate in principle. With the attention of listening in particular to the presentation of colleagues Bečić, colleagues Tabaković and colleagues of Arsic who, explaining their amendments, went into the very measure of the law, forgetting their previous views, that it was a bad law and alphabet of creating, or writing the law, that bad legal text could not be corrected by amendments. Amendments can fix solid legal texts and be better. Bad legal text cannot be corrected by amendments. It associated me with a general picture of what was a qualification of the law itself. The word is often mentioned – demagogy and the reference is a syntagma – double standards. These words and these syntagmas are particularly mentioned by the proponent, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, as if not a double standard advocated for the achievement of all attributes of local self-government and the rights of citizens at the restaurant, and then when Nišlje chooses the director of the Clinical Centre, Mr. Dinkic runs to Nis and says he cannot be, because he is not a member of 17. This place belongs to G17, so our headquarters decided. It's demagogy and it's double standards. I don't want to waste any more time on my MP group. I'd only go back to the basics. I would remind everyone of the LDP position - the only right, the only right solution is to withdraw the law from the procedure, because bad law cannot be corrected by amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56624	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: I asked for the replica. How can he not? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Milivoevich. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. He's advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56625	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure – members 103, 107, in connection with Article 127, the dignity of the Assembly, where you, without giving me the right to replication, have made it impossible to explain... (President: This is the 100th time to explain, that the rights to the replica cannot be subject to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Dignity of the Assembly — Article 107. It's a member who's asking me to state the correct position of interpreting and submitting amendments to a member who's talking about incomes, that is, a company determined by local self-government. I warn you that you are obliged to give me your word on Article 107, under article 27, where you are required to take care of order at the session. You have injured the Rules of Procedure under Rule 103. You directly caused the injury, giving the word to Mr Milivojevic – Article 103, 27 and 107. Can I have a word? I won't take more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56626	There are no injuries to Articles 27, 103 or 107, therefore, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, you may ask that the Assembly in the voting day be declared. This is where we finished this part of the story. Mr. Milivoevich, come in. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: On what basis do you give the word to Mr Milivojevic? ) According to the amendment, Mr Vlajko Senić, so Mr Milan Lapcevic and you are registered in the electronic system. It's a order of how I respect and give my word, how it goes in order. (Jorganka Tabaković, from town: I thank you. I'll wait my turn. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56627	I answered after the amendment. Sure, I'll use my MP's time. It's very important what local municipal taxes are when an investor comes. Anyone who says it doesn't matter, to attract investors, or doesn't know how it comes and how that process takes place to bring in some land is intended and brought in investors, or doesn't know or doesn't want to know. When you get as mayor, or as an interested man from a local environment asking a company, where you discuss what infrastructure is, is there an asphalt road, how many people have that city, you get a dozen other questions – seventh, eighth or ninth question is, largely, what is the amount paid on behalf of the municipal local tax? It's not true that someone knows or doesn't know how to work, here who proposes this law, because if a job knows how to do or doesn't know how to do, that doesn't say words, that's what actions say. This morning I came from Kruševac to Belgrade and passed by the factory Kronospan. Someone brought these people there to Lapovo, showed them that icy by the highway and said, "It's good to build a factory here." If you think these people came just because someone grabbed their hand, so he said, come here now, there is such a backdrop along the highway in Bulgaria along the highway in Hungary along the highway in Croatia. Someone's made a lot of effort, time, and effort to get these people here. If someone brought "Beneton" to Nis, and didn't come to "Beneton" because he loves Nis, and he doesn't like Kruševac, but because he found his own interest, and that interest is reflected in the ability to make one corresponding profit, he came to Nis. The Yura factory that comes from Nis, which has already come to Rač, also didn't come here because someone doesn't know their job, but because someone knows their job. The Falke factory comes to Leskovac, because it is a city of textile industry, has a textile tradition, has a trained workforce there, has certain interests to come there. Anyone who says that no single investor here has come or is not telling the truth or has not traveled to Serbia or travelled in a grumble, because these people have come to Serbia, they have made production plants and work here. But it's very important to these people how much the communal tax is. You know the biggest municipal tax in Serbia is 62 million dinars? It doesn't matter when someone pays 62 million dinars. It is true that not just one hair salon, one fast food store, affects the eco system of a local community, as does Cementar. Cementara certainly significantly disrupts this eco system, but it does not matter how much a municipal tax will be, or that such a communal tax and public incomes will be in such a disproportionate way. It is also important to take care of that item, because it is also an important item when an investor comes into some environment. On the other hand, I talked about these investments and about "Falki" and "Kronospan" and "Beneton" and "Jura", and also about Panasonic, who comes to Svilajnac, because here some people, our coalition partners, people from local self-government, from the DS, from G 17 plus tried to bring these people into their cities. I have no problem commending the mayor of any political option, political parties, which brings investors into its local environment, attracts these investments, opens up jobs, regardless of whether from the DSS of SNS, SRS, DS, will have all the help of me, as a National MP and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in these efforts, in this job called – fighting for new jobs. I don't think he should be vain about it. It doesn't take opening jobs to be a topic of political bickering. You can criticise us because of the global economic crisis some promises we made in the election campaign will not be fulfilled within the scheduled deadlines, but you can't criticize us for what we did well, because you can't say it's bad that in Raca you're looking for extra workers. You can't say that it's bad that there's gonna be as many jobs opening up in Svilinco. In doing so, as you throw a stone at us, stand in front of the mirror and ask yourself, before you throw that biggest stone you take from the ground, out of the dust, before you throw it at us, ask yourself what you did today for that local environment, what you did with your public function, how many investors you brought in, how many people you hired here, so when you add it all up, when you measure it, then on that cantar, where you put us in charge, you repay us and you repay us. Until then, don't stop at the cantar, it's not good to measure yourself like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56628	The word is Mr. Senic Vlajko.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56629	Dear Vice President, honourable MPs, as you could hear, we have no problem with our coalition partners. This is our joint project, and here there have been complaints that it's a political campaign, etc. Mr. Pejcic, every policy is, of course, politics. decentralisation is a policy of the URS. You have one of your policies of protesting the EU, entering NATO, everything normal, and it has some price. We stand for our policy and that policy has a certain price. It's up to the citizens to assess what they like best and what they think will bring them the best result. We deeply believe that decentralisation is Serbia's dry need, that simply Serbia has become such a centralised state over time, that it cannot continue to develop normally economically unless decentralisation begins and ends. What's this about? Of course, over the past 10 years, there have been more acute problems, and if you've come to a state that didn't have a banking system, a financial system, where people couldn't live normally, it's normal for you to start from these priorities. Some of these things, many of these things have been resolved in the past. Now, fortunately for this society, decentralisation has come in turn and we are offering our concept to solve this problem. When we talk about costs here, we often stick to some parameters, not taking care of the structure. It was not the IMF and the Fiscal Council that set 3.2% of next year's deficit for the central budget, but for the consolidated budget. It is up to us that, by respecting fiscal rules and respecting our relations with the IMF, we are now in a position to be taught by some who did not even know where their headquarters is, respecting all of this we are trying to redistribute this consolidated budget in a way that, if I may say so, will be better for the citizens of Serbia... (President: I apologize, Mr. Senic, but the amendment does not apply to that. The topic was – the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia submitted to the 2nd amendment. Can I have another sentence? (President: here you go. ) I mean, in the past, the structure of the budget is also changing, only it changes quietly. I'll give you a good example. Agriculture has dramatically lost participation in the central budget. This did not happen with any concrete law, with some debate in the assembly, but with the struggle of political forces. So, the budget was given as a category of political party, as representatives of citizens struggle to ensure by their policy that the policy, which the citizens have given them support, is implemented. This time we are fighting for more funds to go to local self-government, to carry out fiscal decentralisation, not because of the municipalities and buildings that exist, but because of the people living in these municipalities and who will have the opportunity to choose the people who will lead the municipalities through this process. So we do not say – we give this money to those who are in power today in municipalities, in other elections it will be in a year, but we are talking about giving conditions that every new municipal government has the opportunity to do something with its citizens, and the citizens will decide who they will trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56630	Thank you, but you haven't reached the point. Now it's Mr. Lapcevic's turn. (Alexander Pejcic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. I gave my word to Mr. Lapčević. (Alexander Pejcic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Lapčević, Mr. Pejcic is advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56631	Article 27 refers to holding a session of the chairman, and that is you in this case. Since Mr. Vlajko Senic called me directly by name and last name, I have the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56632	You do not have the right to replicate because you are advertising a violation of the Rules of Procedure in denying the right to a replica that cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're on a very thin wire. We warn you of the consequences of the application of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Lapchev, sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56633	Mr. Novakovic, I have been sitting here all day in the O.R., as well as most colleagues from the position and opposition, and I really can't take the impression that I can't reach the ends of what Rules of Procedure we do in the morning, after which afternoon you work, and according to which Rules of Procedure Mrs. Comic is working. You were here all the time in the afternoon debate when... (President: I apologize, according to this Rules of Procedure, which you yourself refer to as an amendment to the Second Parliamentary Group member, Forward Serbia. Here you go. So, you're incorrigible. That's my final comment. (President: In respect of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, of course, I am completely incorrigible. You're incorrigible. If they were present this morning, and your colleagues from your MP group were 10 times the replicas on one side and on the other with their LDP colleagues, it was perfectly normal, and now that people are called directly, whether they're from DSS, SRS or SNS, then there's no basis for replication. I really don't understand why that is, but I guess citizens are going to find out what's causing it very well. It's really not right. (President: I apologize, do you want to talk about the amendment and the subject? I use the time of my MP group, as you have not given me the right to reply. I don't think that the principle of force you're using is really appropriate, given that it's a very academic and cultural debate. I don't know why you're denying a normal democratic debate with parliament, so I guess that's why parliament was founded to discuss some draft law with arguments. We don't abuse the story, we don't insult anyone, I don't know why we wouldn't have the right to tell what we think. (Ivan Andric, from the place: Replica. ) (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56634	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56635	Mr. Novakovic, about how you run the session let the citizens evaluate. I will use my time to explain to my esteemed colleague, Rangelovic, the reason for the submission of our amendments. To tell you the truth, we had a dilemma on our own, knowing how unsustainable this bill was made. [[Ivan Andric, from the place: We have answered the line.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56636	Mr. Andric, please do not throw or disturb the speaker. (Ivan Andric, from the scene: We have answered the line, do not ignore us. You are not Free Milosevic. ) Therefore, MP Ivan Andric, despite the warning, continues to throw and does not allow, and I must give you a second warning because of my business obligation. Excuse me. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56637	You could cancel out the time. (Ivan Andric, from the post: Mr Novakovic, I have the advantage of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56638	National MP Ivan Andric agrees to take precedence over the Rules of Procedure, so since you are calling for the same Rules of Procedure that I have in mind, I give you the measure of taking away words. Please do not throw away any further, do not interfere with the speaker. Thank you. (John Andric, from the scene: Would you like to call security? Shame on you. What are your hands up? We're going to cancel the time again, because it's one minute? I'm just asking you to sign up. (Ivan Andric, from the place: Who should apply? We've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, sir. Call security to get me out of the O.R. Why do you need that, Mr. Andric? (John Andric, from the place: To show how powerful you are, as chairman, how powerful you are and how firm you are. I don't understand why you interrupt Mrs Tabakovic in trying to explain the essence of her amendment. (Ivan Andric, from the place: You can't give me a word. ) Mr. Andric, everyone in this room at every moment of the Rules of Procedure gets a word, because in another way it's impossible to get a word. (Ivan Andric, from the place: So how come we didn't get the word? Therefore, you wanted a replica. You have no right to a replica. Please, Mr. Guric, don't throw it away. (Ivan Andric, from the place: You will not continue! Do you understand me? I'm setting a five-minute break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Mr. Bojan Djuric answered his word, advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56639	You know what, Mr. Novakovic, something like this hasn't happened in this House in at least ten years. Now I've been thinking in these five minutes, your behavior is a combination of Radomana Bozovic and Dragan Tomic. Now, what do you think you're going to do, wait two or three minutes, and move on with your opposition's constructive colleagues? Why are you acting like this? Article 27. What are you acting like this for? This is obviously a violation. The man answered the line, was directly mentioned. What does that mean after running around the halls of LDP MPs with an apology, like you did today? For a statement in the diary, you didn't apologize? You know what, Alexander Tianic at least sends a letter when he apologizes to Mr. Andric. I don't know how you're gonna make your apology. You're blinding with the MPs here and shutting the system down. What kind of behavior is that? What, are you gonna wait for me to finish? Okay. Every other remark you enter into a word, you interrupt MPs, etc. Now you're just gonna sit here and listen? In doing so, you are not required by the MPs of your party. Just tell me, on what basis do you do not give people a word when they report for the right to reply? So your interpretations of the Rules of Procedure are more cynical than those brought here by Mrs. Komic, while you are a lawyer and lawyer. At least she can be in some legal error, you can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56640	No breach of clause 27. So, a thousand and five hundred times, the right to replica is the discretionary right of the chairman. So that's it. (Ivan Andric, from the place: Replica. Your word was taken from you, if I recall correctly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me repeat it once more, so the word by the Rules of Procedure is that every MP gets it, you can't get the word without it being in the Rules of Procedure. It is quite another thing if you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure which, under certain conditions, can be done and that is absolutely according to the Rules of Procedure and legitimately. So, if you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miss Bulgarian, I'd be happy to give you my word right now, because I'm right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56641	Mr. Novakovic, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, member of the 27th Rules of Procedure, says – that you are obliged to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. You don't care. You're interrupting me all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56642	That one says, you can't call on the same base twice. I didn't shut you down. Sign up, I didn't shut you down.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56643	Mr. Novakovic, you have violated Article 27. Rules of Procedure 2 you are obliged to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and you do not care, and you, Mr. Novakovic, are using the double arches that your leader of the United Regions has mentioned so many times in today's day. One standard is applied when it comes to ruling coalition MPs, and other standards are applied when it comes to LDP MPs. It's scandalous what you've done now, that you've given Mr. Andric two warnings, three warnings, and now to take him away and not give him your word, but you can only do it because we're the opposition and because we're the LDP. You've violated Article 27, you've violated Article 107, you've violated the dignity of this congregation, and so I think you've been using double-arshin methods here all day long.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56644	Therefore, Article 103(2) of the People's Parliament cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. That's an explanation. If you're not satisfied, it's already been. Mr. Pejcic, you didn't sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56645	Article 107, dignity of the Assembly. Since we're MPs here, you and I can't treat us any different. We have our rights guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure, and we are not your disciples, and you are our class elder, so that there in the corner you make us kneel on the floor. We have our rights to the Rules of Procedure. Let us use our rights. I've been called, directly, by name and last name. After my discussion, Mr. Vlajko Senic, since you did not give me the replica, you caused a storm of disdain and thus violated the Parliament's dignity. For those reasons, come back from the beginning, give me a line and I'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56646	No breach of article 107. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. It's about the right to a replica, and I think we should end up with whether the right to a replica can be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or not? So he can't. I'm sorry. Whoever answers now, I think Mrs Tabakovic, Mrs Tabakovic, is constantly in the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56647	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56648	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Novakovic, I've been trying to get word on the rules of procedure for 15 minutes now, member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. My colleagues, Mr. Djuric and Ivan Andric were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you ignored it by giving the word to Mrs. Tabakovic. At no time did you want to pay attention to the behaviour of LDP MPs, to what we are looking for and you should also know Mr. Novakovic when you take someone's right to speak, you have not taken away his right to replication. You cannot use that position of yours as chairman, to insult any MP without giving him the right to answer. We have made it very clear to the Rules of Procedure that the dignity of this assembly that you are violating is that you are one of the legislators of this law and you are chairing here by giving a word to whom you will and in what way you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56649	There is no violation of article 107, and I ask you to bring the arguments you intend to comply with the provisions of the member you are calling upon under the obligation of article 103. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day. No, I don't. He wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. To be perfectly clear and to repeat, in accordance with Article 90 and Article 27, for the sake of all MPs and for the more important public. The Republic is given by the chairman of the congregation, and that is exclusively the decision of the National Assembly. People's MPs who are getting impatient to listen to the whole explanation and the explanation will still have to listen to the whole explanation and explanation. Therefore, the right to the replica is granted and decided by the chairman, any chairman. This right cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure since the discretion and independent decision of the chairman, which each of the chairmans so far has used in accordance with Article 27, has been so and so is and will be so from now on. When it comes to mentioning names, there are two kinds of replicas that are mentioned by name. In the first and more interesting to me, the more creative MPs agree to be mentioned by name. That wasn't the case, but there is. So, in such cases as there is also a testimony in the National Assembly’s stenograms, we are all in the mood to comply with Article 27 and to make sure that the discussion is ongoing, that there is such a gain in replication. In the event of the name of the name and last name of the Members of Parliament, the People's MP of any, in an obviously offensive context, first chairing the warning of the MP who allows himself to mention the name and last name of the second MP in an offensive manner, and then, of course, the MP will be given the right to reply if it is in accordance with the order of the sitting. The right to replication, I also explained that it is in line with Article 27 when, and this is the task of each chairman, it is obvious that mutual two-minute debate will contribute to all MPs interested in the topic, but more importantly to citizens. Therefore, none of these decisions can be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, such as the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be all that is explicitly forbidden by Article 103 in the repeated declaration of the word "infringement" of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot get the right to a replica on the basis of the chairman, and I ask you to understand that when chairing the statement, the position, the opinion of the MP who speaks of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then the MP can only ask that the National Assembly, in the day of the vote, make a statement at the National Assembly, then decide whether the chairman is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That is how all the chairmans respected and applied the Rules of Procedure so far and so will be from now on. So MP Bojan Djuric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs Zoran Krasic, Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Jorgvanka Tabakovic and Milan Lapčević were currently reported. I would ask the secretary to record the names and last names, because, in order for MP Bojan Djuric to sign up to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to delete the list on the electronic system. So, MP Bojan Djuric is talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56650	I won't be talking for long because it's true that some other colleagues may have reported themselves talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm advertising a breach in article 110. The Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which is the measure of confiscation of the words of the People's MP Ivan Andric. First, Mr. Andric did not speak at all at the moment when President Nikola Novakovic took his word. Without any explanation, his word was taken from him, and in the meantime, the MP reported on a completely different basis to speak after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You quoted members of the Rules of Procedure as saying that there is discretionary authority of the president or of the one who runs the session, but still there must be some evenly uniform practice in how this session is conducted. By the way, I think that in the afternoon part of the session last week, when we discussed this issue, noting that the topic is very important for the whole country, you set some pretty good standard of how the session should be conducted, but I am absolutely unclear about these outbursts of Mr. Novakovic. So, article 110.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56651	In both his attitudes, article 110 speaks of the pronunciation of the measure to the MP and cannot be interpreted as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Penalty measures shall be imposed on the basis of Article 109. And the warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president, who took the word without permission, who spoke before he asked and received the word and who, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. Furthermore, if a speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers the freedom of speech of others, when he directly addresses another MP, if he uses swearing or offensive expressions, if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, if other proceedings violates the order of the sitting or acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. The procedure for the application of this article in 109 is such that many MPs have challenged all of us for warning and reminding the MP to violate one of the provisions which constitute the basis and is stated, as I have read in Article 109 to give the warning measure. No matter how slow we are to remind and warn the MPs, we will all continue to do so, because we consider this a good practice in holding a session. It happens to everyone. (Ivan Andric, from the post: I did not get a word in the Rules of Procedure. What's the member's position? ( ) A National MP who did not listen carefully to the views of a member of 109 may either see it in his own copy of the Rules of Procedure or in his stenogram. I have read Article 109 and all the measures that any chairman has said are only spoken on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In turn, according to the severity of the penalty for violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the first warning is made, the measure of taking the words, the measure of moving away from the session. Each of these measures has a fine. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56652	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Article 104 paragraph 3: "The use of the rights referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly." No one here argues that this is the discretionary right of the chairman... (President: Discretional law cannot be the subject of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Can I just explain in one sentence? It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56653	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about the amendment. Are there any other MPs who want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56654	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for a violation of reputation, honor and dignity of the Assembly. I believe that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure are not applied as they should be applied. Apparently, the misunderstanding has arisen over the replica, when an MP can replicate, whether it's discretionary or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56655	People's MPs, the replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Ivan Andric, from the place: Replica. People's MP, you don't have the right to a replica. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? There is a word from the MP Judita Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56656	Madam Chairman, you can't interrupt me and you can't shut me out of the electronic system when I explain why I believe this assembly's dignity has been violated. So, in my explanation, I wanted to state that you are in a commitment, if there is any doubt, whether you are in the wrong way or in a good way applying the Rules of Procedure and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you have to remove this inconceivable, not by creatively interpreting the Rules of Procedure, but by reading the provisions or articles of the Rules of Procedure to which you are called. That's why it's best for you to read it well, so she can hear this esteemed gathering that's about the replica. When a colleague Andric reported for the replica, it's obvious...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56657	People's MPs, the replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I warn you that any subsequent announcement, which implies the obvious right that everyone takes for themselves to be abused, will be a reason to impose criminal measures. This is not the way to run the assembly session and participate in the assembly session, but the chairman must take care of himself. If you wish and insist that participation in the work of any member of the People's Parliament be reduced to the fact that it endures all possible gradual measures of the chairman and that any request for words of injury to the Rules of Procedure is ended by giving a measure of warning – it is no problem, but it is no use to anyone. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56658	I'm advertising a violation of Article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that speaks...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56659	People's MP, a member of 32 can't be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to interpret creatively and not to invent abuse of the Rules of Procedure, just to speak for two minutes. This is a warning now. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (No) National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has his word and talks about the amendment. Ivan Andric, from the scene: What am I supposed to do now? That's it? Bravo. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56660	We are talking about an amendment to Article 2, which we have submitted as a representative group of forwards to Serbia. I want to explain what caused the basic misunderstanding. In the same way, a colleague from another parliamentary group threw me as I spoke, and I stopped, thinking that he would get the right to a replica that I had never before, even though I had been called by name. I patiently waited for my time, and here I am explaining the remark that my colleague Rangelovic made to me on the amendment, even though we, like the others, said this law was wrong. I simply owe the citizens of Serbia an explanation of why one law many think is unsustainable, that it is fiscally not neutral, but that it disrupts all those provisions set out in the memorandum on fiscal policy and that in one important law that I will mention, it deserves, although so bad, to submit eight amendments to the ten members of the bill. One reason was a rather restrictive Rules of Procedure and a law which he produced, with the right and reason, a lot of debate and deserves a lot of time to explain why he is politically popular, but the law will only have to be paid by establishing some new sources, in order to give more money to someone, or by new borrowing or new tax obligations, or, best of all, big tax savings. As I understood at one point the promoter, when he said that 40 billion existed, and I asked nicely what position they were in. Let's let him tell us where that 40 billion is, or 10 on the current proposal, how much is missing if it is adopted with a validity of September 1st and for the next year close to 50 billion missing dinars. So, the seriousness of the topic, but also the indications that DS as the coalition's headquarters could support this law has led us as a parliamentary group to submit amendments, indicating that there could possibly be greater profits in local self-government territory, i.e. a merger into local budgets of higher incomes from income tax. So, employment as a basic source of income, healthy and sustainable, precisely by amendment to Article 2 is encouraged by the fact that the company is determined at a maximum value level of up to 1%, not as it was tried to represent 1%, but by a maximum of 1% of annual income and an unfounded remark on whether or not it relates to a gross or net amount is the same observation made by the promoter himself by proposing an absolute amount of average earnings, not by saying whether it is net or gross. What's the key to the misunderstanding? Does each of us have the right to our own approach when he wants to do something good in this congregation when the law criticises or wants to improve it? Yeah, I think so. We have submitted 49 amendments to the Business Society Act. I truly regret that many of these amendments have not been adopted, because many of the deceitful actions that take place in the process of moving goods and money flows, registrations at the Agency for Economic Registers, pre-fashional, bankruptcy procedures, creation of the company's boyfriend, would have been disabled if you had adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups forward Serbia. Why is this law bad now, and why am I just talking about Article 2 which is the essence of the law? Leave the people to earn, and they'll be able to develop. What are you doing? You question the law that we will have at the next session of the agenda as a debt law from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a programme loan for the development of public finances. I ask a direct question to the public and to the promoter, I read the law that arrived on June 13th, I am talking about the signing of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who has committed to withdrawing $100m of credit for the development of public finances, but provided that he respects the Memorandum of Budget which did not mean this project that opens this big hole -- a deficit in the budget, which says at point 3: "The Borrower adopted the Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013" and states the precise, official messenger in which it was published and under point (a) says: "which includes all the revenues and expenditures of the general level of government". I remind you, 420 billion dinars are required for pensions a year. Tax and profit contributions only add up to 150. The missing 270 billion to pay out pensions to people who live and in those cities that we treat here as local self-government should be found somewhere. And you're still opening up the problem of finding another 40 this year 10 billion in the next 43. I expect you to tell us whether the price of this government's survival is higher than the price of forming this government, when a 144 deficit is opened, remember, billions of missing money to fund pensions, and now you're leaving them without a source for regular payment, or we're going to go to some new debt, or we're going to raise the VAT from 18 to 25, or, please, announce the news to which I'm going to be happy, that you know where the savings stand, where the spills or lies dead, unused money that the state has, and it won't use it the way we all want to develop local self-government. From the time of the authorized representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56661	Seven minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word has a proposing representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56662	I find it very interesting what you're saying, given that you're contradictory. At one point you say – Serbia should not be in debt, and now you are questioning the World Bank's 100 million-dollar loan, namely, you are reportedly concerned that Serbia will be able to raise it. It would be consistent to say – if Serbia is not to be in debt, it should not borrow from the World Bank. If he's supposed to be in charge, then you're just rightly concerned about whether he'll be able to raise this loan from the World Bank. I can tell you what a fact is. The World Bank or any other lender, he is not interested in asking that fiscal rules and budget deficit be respected, he is not interested in whether the Republic of Serbia will give more to local self-government or more to the republican budget. The redistribution within the consolidated balance sheet of public finances is our internal issue. Whether we're going to build more roads or we're going to give more for ecology or we're going to give more to cities and municipalities, Parliament decides in the Budget Law, it's important that the overall balance is such that it's sustainable. In that sense, my direct answer to your direct question – no, voting this law will not affect the possibility of withdrawing this World Bank loan. I know that as an opposition, you probably think that if you've dramatically raised a question, you'll have more public attention. I saw that statement of yours today, which you just repeated in the Assembly, that it's supposed to be a World Bank loan, etc., pensions, everything else. You want to scare the people, and you think, "Here, we now vote something that will question them with the commons. What it is is that pensions are sacred in every country. Salaries in the public sector are very important in each budget. When something is reduced at expenditures, something that is not receiving citizens always decreases first. Here, given that the budget of the Republic is 800 billion dinars, we are talking about reducing 40 billion dinars of Republic spending. I've already said this to the LDP this morning, but I'm going to answer to you, because I don't know if you've been listening, whether you've been in the O.R., but you really have the right to know how we plan to cut these expenditures in the Republic. If by law we are proposing, and we suggest that 40 billion dinars be transferred to cities and municipalities, it is normal to expect the Republic to reduce by the same amount of expenditure, in order to be fiscally neutral. First, at this point, the Republic has about 15 billion dinars of expenditure on republican ministries that can be abolished. These are the republican expenditures of local character, I've talked about them several times, I repeat for the public one more time, these 15 billion today, the Republic deploys a certain number of municipalities, not everyone, and it's no secret that it's mostly the municipalities where people in power are the same ones in the Republic. That's how it's been for the last 20 years. Personally, I think it's a disaster, it's wrong, and it needs to be changed. These expenditures should be abolished, and the municipalities should be paid out of income tax, so that they can decide for themselves what they will build on the territory of their municipalities. So 15 billion is being saved on that basis. An additional 10 billion is being saved by Serbia's public enterprise stopping and building local roads and rural roads, rather than focusing exclusively on national and regional roads, and in that sense I think the Law on Roads should also be amended, which means better and more precise road classification. Those who are experts in this say that indeed today under the firm or term "regional road" are classified and those roads that are essentially local, the main streets in some cities are considered regional roads and it is certainly not a good classification, since the cities will now have much more money, there is no need for Serbia's public enterprise to do local projects, but should focus on republican and regional ones. Ten billion dinars can be saved on that basis in a consolidated balance sheet. Also, the third item that can be reduced and all these expenditures that the Republic had on the basis of so-called. Anti-crisis measures, it can be lifted. For example, subsidized liquidity loans were important during the crisis, but they were already abolished, a month ago and will not be planned in the next budget, and they were in this year. Also, let's say, help the construction industry. That was an anti-crisis measure. The measure does not need to remain in the next budget, since local self-government will be able to do those jobs for which they are in charge, and the Republic should not deal with it. It was just an idea to encourage housing at a time when the crisis is going on, because it's hit the hardest and there's no need to spend money on it in the next period. Only at the division of the economy ministry can 11 billion dinars be removed, removed, reduced expenditures and four more in other ministries, and there is an additional 15 billion. So, 15 billion by abolishing non-road expenditures of local character, 10 billion by abolishing the expenditure of the "Road of Serbia", which are local character and savings due to the abolition of anti-crisis measures, an additional 15 billion, and we reach 40 billion dinars of savings on the bulk side of the budget because 40 billion dinars of income are given to local self-government. We have a fiscal neutral budget. All of this should be calculated when drawing up the 2012 Budget Law. The finance ministry is tasked with putting all this into this law because the subject of these savings is not in the Law on the financing of local self-government but in the Budget Law, so there is no reason for anyone to worry that by strengthening Serbian cities and municipalities, we are denying some rights of citizens on a different level. On the contrary, this will require restructuring of the Republic's expenditures, but the republican budget is so large and not always comprehensive that there is plenty of room where savings can be made. It is essential to significantly reduce the cost of the republican administration and bureaucracy and thus help our cities and municipalities get more money and work for the benefit of the citizens who live there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56663	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56664	Thank you. I admire your incredible ease in how you've now made a list of these possible savings. I really wish you were right that and that you have the opportunity to make those savings. However, you do not need to interpret me, there is no contradiction to say that the hole created by this bill cannot be financed except from three sources – by increasing taxes, loans or savings, but I say this loan contract is already signed. So you can't discredit the government of the Republic of Serbia who has already signed a contract for this loan, and the condition for using this money needed to function public services and authorities is not to change fiscal policy, a memorandum written, a budget for this year. The problem is those who vote for this, it's not mine. It's my job to warn you. Whether I'm doing it in a voice or in a voice like that, it's really not the subject of your assessment. You go ahead, focus on reasons or answers or you don't have to, that's your choice. It is my job to warn you that there has been no rebalancing in the reconstruction of the government and that money is illegally spent, regardless of the budgetary possibility of rerouting revenue to 5% of what we have adopted by budget in some exceptional conditions. I really have an established fear doesn't matter what I can point my finger at and say – you're responsible, because my neighbors, my friends, will live upstairs because you won't be able to pay off this or that contribution and not just pensions. You know everything in the budget is funded. I wish there really were savings and I like them to find them, but if no one believes that, only those who care to stay in power, I have the right to ask that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56665	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56666	I don't dispute the right to ask questions, there's one thing where they're absolutely right. You said this could be resolved by increasing taxes, savings on expenditures or by increasing deficits or by financing it through loans. That's where I absolutely agree with you. What the URS is suggesting is that the fact that 40 billion are being transferred to cities and municipalities is being replaced exclusively by a reduction in expenditure. We are against tax hikes and we are against increasing deficits, or against increasing debt. Let's move on to this World Bank loan issue. And it is quite clear to you, given the date on which this proposal of the Government arrived, that this World Bank loan was signed to finance this year's current deficit. So it's not meant to refer to the consequences of this law. What you have rightly stated, normally, is that financial organisations that lend loans do not want to finance some increase in deficits. I'm against increasing deficits, and I suggest not to allow an increase in deficits by reducing the expenditures of the Republic. So that's what our proposal is, everything else is interpretations. By the way, I have no doubt that you love our country, I love it. I will also, like you, walk in cities, villages, in municipalities after the adoption of this law. Unlike you, who have fear, I am happy that finally the cities and municipalities will be inhaled, because they haven't really had enough transfers so far, that's what I was talking about when I debated the MPs of the other parliamentary group, but 80 percent, as far as they're left with the income tax, will essentially have much more independence. I think the time has come for Serbia to pay greater attention to cities and municipalities, 170 of them, compared to the republican administration. The Republic administration always complains that there's not enough money to achieve something. Why is he always complaining? Well, because he does some things he shouldn't do. That's what we're talking about. The Republic shouldn't do many things it does today. If you did less, you'd be more efficient, and if you just focus on the right things, if you only did national projects, those big national projects would certainly be completed. I can tell you that I've been sitting here with you for 20 years with me in various coalitions in power, we haven't seen a major infrastructure project in Serbia over the past 20 years. No hydrocenters have been built, not one big car – the road has not been built in the last five years, in the last four years, in the last 20 years. Since the Age of Titus, in fact, not one big car – a road made. Why? Because the Republic has lost its power, energy on various local projects that are not irrelevant, but which it does not need to do but needs municipalities and cities. They didn't work because they didn't have any money. We now want to give these same cities money, this law allows it, and to take away the possibility for the Republic to do more and to concentrate on doing large capital projects, and to reduce those costs that are unnecessary and which only mean losing money and losing energy and good organisation. With this law, we are doing a better organisation of the state, that the Republic is doing national projects, regions of the region and municipalities of local projects. So far, they couldn't because they didn't have any money, they didn't have any property. Here they are getting their money back first, and we hope that soon they will be returned and the property, because we have also filed that law, and the government, as I understand it, is working on it, and then the municipalities will be in a far better position than they are today and they will no longer be able to blame it, as they have rightly blamed the central authorities to choke and prevent their development, because when you get an increase in local revenues by 70 to 100%, then it is no longer the same story as it is now, when they are all justifiably unsatisfactory. This law allows everyone to start developing and depending on themselves, and the Republic should take care of what national affairs are.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56667	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, two minutes and this is the final round of clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56668	I won't take two minutes. I only have one question, although it's more a question for the citizens than it is for you. Since 2001 you are the owner of the key of all vaults where the loans, the republican budget, the indirect privatisation agency, the Agency for Rehabilitation, the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, then the insurance of deposits, the huge money that came from one side or another, the most significant decisions regarding the economy, or as finance minister or as economy minister and regional development, and I simply wonder if you really didn't have an understanding of your coalition partners, and we all know that you were an alpha and omega of all governments from 2001 to today. I really don't know if you've come from some way, or if you've had an epiphany, or if we can justify this sudden change in your relationship to money, to the Republic Government, because you're talking to me like I'm in the government, and you're the opposition. I really don't understand it, and that's why we used this law and these amendments, to talk about it and to give citizens our opinion on it. They always commit to whom they trust by word, to whom they promise, to whom good deeds, to whom experience. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56669	Representative Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56670	You're right, I was governor of the NBS from the end of 2000 until the end of 2003, and I'm proud of what I did. We've restructured the banking sector, introduced order into monetary policy. Today, banks are not institutions where when you put the money, you can forget about it, but tomorrow you can come and raise it with interest. Today, unlike that period when I started working as governor, we have seven billion euros in savings in banks, and in December 2000, when I headed the NBS, unfortunately, no one was alive saving in Serbian banks, but was becoming a debt to the old savings that we also returned and began to return in the meantime. He'll be back soon and to the end. As finance minister, I am proud to have made a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that is why I am certainly the last man to propose solutions that introduce the state into a deficit. As for the term of office as Minister of Economy, I am proud that we have brought "Fiat" to Serbia, because this will indeed be a turning point in the whole industrial policy of Serbia. All who criticized the words, justifiably, that Serbia is too import-dependent, that there are no export products, have not done much to criticise. A concrete move to bring "Fiyates" their cooperatives and "Fiyates", not only as a concrete project, but as symbols, the way of a new model of industrial development, is something I think I can be proud of. Since slowly but surely, we are growing coverage of imports and exports, even though we are far from what we might be satisfied with. The question -- why didn't I propose these decentralisation measures earlier are partially accurate. As finance minister, I did propose the current law, which meant one step towards decentralisation, and this step is now even bigger. Secondly, a year and a half ago, we handed over the law to this assembly on the return of property to local self-government, and today it stands there in the procedure, as some of the laws that your MP groups have passed, but we filed it a year and a half ago. Finally, a man cannot see what the problems of cities and municipalities are until he begins to do so in practice. As governor, you'll admit, no governor in the world deals with municipalities, you deal with central monetary policy. The finance minister, in the nature of things, deals primarily with national public finances. Only as Minister of Economy and Regional Development, have I seen that the Republic government cannot essentially remove the disparities of development in any measure, no matter what money, no matter what laws, because the problem is in the system. If the Republic is to help cities strengthen and develop, it cannot technically do so simultaneously for 170 cities and municipalities. The problem is, it has to be left to them. It's not a problem, it's been a delusion so far that the Republic government can help Nis, or Leskovec, or Subotics. Maybe it can be for those three cities, but it can't be for all 170. Then forget it, I don't know, Ossica or Osjacs or any other city. The point is that the Republic should not deal with this, but rather deal with national politics, and give cities more money, return property, that they solve their own problems. I'm not hiding that I didn't even think about it in 2003. I haven't thought about it and it's human to tell you. As governor, I was involved in bank reform and in establishing a stable course. I began to think intensively about the course of the end of the Finance Minister's term, when I saw a proposal for a permanent conference of cities and municipalities for decentralisation and since then I've been constantly thinking about it, and as a result, they've started to come up with these legal proposals, and this is just the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56671	National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56672	You just mentioned the word "consistency" in the debate. I'm going to remind you a little bit of this consistency that you're making in your argument as well as the members of your parliamentary group. It has been said that this is a joint campaign of your political options with your coalition partners. If this is a joint campaign, why didn't this bill come as a government proposal and not a proposal from your parliamentary group? I'm not sure that's an exact claim, so you wouldn't be doing it this way if that were the case. You were talking about how the alleged deficit or our projected deficit will be covered based on higher incomes in the local self-government budget. You said the total income based on the income tax in the Republic of Serbia is 110 billion dinars per year. Since 40% is increasing by municipalities, that's 40% times 110 billion -- 44 billion dinars, right? It's not 40 billion as much as you said. The current situation is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is down to about 120 billion dinars, and the situation is that transfers to local self-government are at 32 billion dinar levels. GDP 1.7% as the legal minimum for transfers to local self-government was 57 billion. According to your bill, if I'm not mistaken, Article 4 speaks of transfers remaining at 1.7% of GDP, further 57 billion. The difference between the current situation and this budget is 25 billion, 32 to 57 is 125 and an increase of 40% of the income tax on local self-government, which is the total minus on the other side of 70 billion dinars. If you have explained to us that there will be savings in the republican budget by the fact that 15 billion dinars, which are reportedly predicted by various ministries of local projects, will be abolished – 10 billion from anti-crisis measures and 15 billion more, will remain to explain what is left of the remaining 30 billion, and how will we save them? If you already claim that these savings are possible and that the republican budget is so large, that it can make those savings within itself, then we return to the beginning of the story. The municipalities and cities were then not allowed to be the bearers of the problem of insufficient budget incomes. In fact, they didn't have to cut the transfers from the original 40 to the 25, but as it grew to 32 billion, because then they could make the same savings that we're talking about today. So, on this basis, they were able to cut spending on the republican administration, they could cut spending on various other bases. So these transfers could remain at the same level and today municipalities and cities could not be, firstly, in large debt. Secondly, so that their development doesn't remain on this level as it is today and it's very slow. Third, not to enter major deficits and major loans. Also, you are talking about the fact that there is money in the Republic budget to make these savings, and you forget, or you do not point out that the revenue side of this budget today is hundreds of millions of euros that the Republic is taking to fill the budget from commercial banks. It's not normal income, it's credit to the state. If we're talking about normal incomes and the normal state of the budget, then we can't call in that we took 400 million euros from the Sosite Bank, and I don't know how much we took from other banks to fill the gaps in the budget, and on that basis you're saying there's money, that we can do these things in this way that you suggested. To be clear, the DSS has been for decentralisation, we've been talking about it intensely for the last three years. For as little as possible by the countries influencing those local things that municipalities need and have to do, and that you have submitted a bill that contains not only in this way solving this problem, but also in changing various other laws concerning the authority of cities and municipalities, in terms of the Water Act, the Law on Roads, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Energy Act, etc., which treat matter in various areas, then we can understand that this will essentially lead to decentralisation. This is one step in this. To boast that 515 thousand citizens supported this initiative is, in our opinion, absolutely inappropriate. So when you come to a man and you say -- do you want to have more money in the local budget, of course someone will say yes, of course I will. And if you told him what all the implications are all over the country, the question is, what would happen? You could've gone into a signature-gathering action, like not paying for electricity. Everyone would sign, not 515 grand, four million people would sign, and that's simply not how the party will seriously access the proposal of a legal model. If we want to be a serious party and seriously propose laws, then we have to have full insight into what this law is going to produce? According to us, first and foremost what had to be done so far, we are absolutely behind it, we support the story, the property of local self-government had to be returned in 2008. Here, in 2011, I respect that you have proposed an amendment, that is, the Law on the return of property to local self-government a year ago, but then there is not a story that stands that you work together with coalition partners, because that is how this law has already come and would be voted in the National Assembly. He's gone. So that's another segment to understand the whole story. We also believe that a series of sectoral laws must be harmonised in terms of decentralisation and giving greater powers to local self-government. Today, we have local self-governments in Serbia that range from 5,000 to over 200,000 people per municipality. For example, Novi Belgrade has over 200,000 inhabitants on its territory. We believe that there should be an increase in the limit, i.e. no more than 40 or 50,000 inhabitants, to increase the number of municipalities in Serbia, but also to give them the broad possibility that there is a minimum of authority that municipalities and cities must have, all local self-government. Therefore, all local self-governments in Serbia should have that minimum of authority, and that maximum should be placed on one particular part, a list of powers and powers that local self-governments can voluntarily assume in accordance with their capacity, so that the largest cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, etc. Probably take over most of these ingenuities in terms of healthcare, in education, setting up local chiefs, police, judiciary, etc., but certain municipalities, less municipalities, probably don't have all these capacities, so they can't take over everything, but that's the principle of volunteering, that those municipalities that have the capacity, to take over the most powers, those who don't have as much as they can carry, according to their personnel potential. The development at the level, given that this should solve the problem of large differences in development across the country, that part must be solved through different funds that would work in specific areas. Cities and municipalities around which today's administrative districts are created must be developmentists for a specific territory and must comply with the degree of development and territory that they have a specific budget fund to iron regional differences in terms of the development of certain regional road projects, water supply, etc. We think decentralisation is a complex and serious thing and it can't and should not be one party project like this right now. We are absolutely open to this subject, given that we consider it necessary for further progress of the country, for the democratisation of the country, we are in the mood to sit down and talk seriously about how decentralisation will take place in the country, but to be the fruit of a broad consensus, broad public debate and political factors in the country and in parliament and the permanent conferences of cities and municipalities, as one body that gathers all local self-governments, so let's see from their point of view what they think we should do. So they proposed a series of laws that need to be changed in terms of decentralisation. They wrote dozens of letters and sent to the government to discuss it. This image is probably familiar to you, when we were teaching a petition last year, in the sense that you published multiple times, as well as the Prime Minister, that the crisis in the country has passed, and that there is no reason to abolish in local self-government transfers that have been lifted from them. Decentralisation in Serbia is necessary, property to local self-government as soon as possible, but decentralisation in that essential way that will bring changes to the law in all areas, giving greater authority to local self-governments, and with this as well as what you propose and more resources to which these powers will be able to implement in the work, for the benefit of citizens living in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56673	The parliamentary group has taken full time, as well as time for an authorised representative. There are two minutes left for amendment applicants from the DSS parliamentary group. Proposer representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56674	Some things you're right about, some things you're not right about. Indeed, something that is only a party project cannot succeed in a more party country. It's quite clear, and if this was just a party project, it would be doomed. However, when you say a broad public debate is being organised, and you realize yourself that we in the URS already have proposed a law on the return of property to local self-government a year and a half ago, I don't know who defended the DSS from supporting it and saying – in this law, this is good, this is bad. He's in the congregation. You're an MP, we handed him over to the congregation a year and a half ago, in the process. Also, with a constant conference of cities and municipalities, we were in contact when we proposed that law, and now that we have accepted two amendments to this text. You know as well as I do that public debate is an excuse, when something doesn't want to be done, then there's a public debate. If you want to do something, of course you should have a public hearing, but it shouldn't take 10 years or two. I guess it's enough for two, three months in one serious country, if it's a bigger problem it can take a year. This isn't a change of constitution to give me a public hearing for a year or two. If these laws stand for a year and a half, or this one law, then I think that's more than enough. The precision is, and let me say that when you were talking about the numbers at first, so that it doesn't remain unsaid, that's where you gave the wrong information, and I'll tell you where you went wrong, namely, next year's transfers, if the current law is respected, and if it doesn't change, it should be 51.6 billion dinars. How do you get that? Gross domestic product from 2010 according to statistics is three thousand 34 billion dinars, 1.7% of gross domestic product is 51.6 billion dinars. This would be the basis for transfers in the following year of 1.7% of gross domestic product, as the law suggests. With this law, we propose that large and developed cities be halved transfers, and that poor municipalities increase transfers and introduce a transfer of solidarity, so that when we apply the coefficients that we have given in our bill, the only ones we reduce, the richer, and we increase the poorer, the total amount of non-purpose transfer next year, if 1.7% of the gross domestic product is the basis, would be not 51.6, but 27.8. This system of reducing major cities that withdraw most of the transfers is essentially saving more than 20 billion, but we are introducing a transfer of solidarity by no longer identifying Belgrade as a transfer, but instead deploying itself to municipalities and again those who are least developed, half of the solidarity transfers, those who are slightly more developed additional 30% and for more developed municipalities by 10% for the first and second groups, so the transfer of solidarity is a total of 4,900. The non-intentional transfer would be 27.8% of the billion plus the transfer of solidarity 4.9%, so the total transfer would be around 33 billion. Less – more, you can see that it would be in the amount that is nominally equal to the transfer this year, regardless of what is calculated on the basis of the 1.7% gross domestic product. The only difference is that municipalities and cities would be left double the income tax, and that's another 43 billion, so when we talk about how much it takes to reduce the republican expenditure to make this bill fiscally neutral, it's not a 70 billion figure, as you said, but from 43 billion. I don't underestimate the 43 billion figure, it's a big number, but it's not 70, I just want to be precise to tell you what it is. How do you solve that? So, not by increasing taxes, not by borrowing and spreading deficits, but by reducing unnecessary expenditures in the Republic administration, which I have already talked about many times today. As for the need for decentralisation to be fully passed by other laws, we in the U.S. are absolutely aware of that and we will work on it. However, returning property and giving more money to cities and municipalities are two of the most important laws. No money, no property, no local self-government. It is true that there should be some more ingenuity to give to the locale, especially now that it has the authority to keep 80% of the income tax in cities and municipalities, then local self-government should have in the tax administration more jurisdiction to control the collection of these incomes from the income tax, as well as the authority in the control of labour relations. Therefore, labour inspection should also move to the local level, since cities and municipalities will now be much more interested than the Republic in whether or not someone is registered or working on black, given that money is being placed directly in or out of the local register. I think it's a good thing we give motive to those who depend on that money to control it. Of course, I think we should keep a republican labour inspection due to the complete system, but we need to transfer most of the jurisdiction there to the locale. As far as other laws are concerned, it is certain that various incomes, which are now mostly of the Republic, are likely to be determined by the changes in the law that they belong to the locale, the tourist tax or any other income. As head of the URS parliamentary group, I will gladly accept any such proposal, whether it comes from the opposition party, either from the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the coming period. However, you know yourself that it is very difficult with 20 laws suddenly to come about one topic. It is important to lay the foundations, and the Law on the financing of local self-government is one foundation, the return of property is another foundation, everything else is complementary to this and time will be passed. Secondly, I can only imagine how you would react if the U.S.S. had come here with 20 laws, if we had done everything now. What would others do? What would the Government of the Republic of Serbia do in the coming years and decades, if we had now done everything in one session of the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56675	National MP Milan Lapcevic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56676	Mr. Dinkic, you said the transfers would be 27 billion plus the solidarity transfers around 32, just like this year. In Article 4, the annual amount of the total non-intentional transfer representing the accounting category for the distribution of funds to local self-government is 1.7% of the gross domestic product achieved. Are you sending us a message that we won't respect this member you're proposing again? The latest published data on our country's gross social product, I found it on the Internet, type it in and you'll see, for 2009, it's 3350 billion dinars times 1.7% is 56.9 billion. So that's where we're essentially different. I found information that's public information, I don't believe it's a fake. So that's it. As for the Law on the Return of Property to Local Self-Government, we had nowhere to support it. How do we support it when it's proposed here and it's not on the agenda? He's not even on the agenda. So, you have to talk to the representatives of the parties you're in the coalition with to ask them why it's not on the agenda and ask yourself at all why you haven't done it so far. You don't need to talk to the opposition why we didn't support or support it, but ask your coalition partners why you didn't put it on the agenda and why you brought together local self-governments into a situation that they had to enter huge loans so they could maintain the basic functions of local self-government and enter major budget deficits. So it's just something you can't escape from. We can't support a law like this because you're not convincing enough that what you're proposing won't make a new hole in the budget. I'm sure he'll make it because we don't simply believe in the word that it will be respected by law, as it has not been respected so far, or that they will be able to save themselves. If they can, they could've done it by now, so they haven't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56677	Two minutes. Proposer representative, MP Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56678	You obviously did not understand this system of coefficients given in the law, and therefore you leave only this Article 37, where it is said to be an annual copy of the total transfer, which represents the accounting category 1.7% of the gross domestic product achieved. However, it follows in the following members that units of local self-government are given the transfer calculated on that basis, but reduced by certain amounts, more developed cities get half as much as the current level, so that this reduction comes to this figure of 32 billion. So from 52 to 32. That's what the law says. The second thing you said about the government and the opposition's relationship is -- why didn't you ask for your partner's support? I can tell you, I don't know what your practice or other parliamentary clubs is, I can tell you that the practice of the URS will be such that if anyone in this assembly makes a good law, whether it's the Government, whether it's your parliamentary club, some other opposition, positional, and if it's good for the citizens of Serbia, you'll have our support to vote in the assembly. Try, make a proposal that's good and we'll be sure to back it up. I think it is high time in Serbia not to share proposals on whether they are governmental, positional or oppositional, but whether they are good or bad. If the opposition parties make something useful for the citizens of Serbia, you will see it in action, we will be ready to support such a proposal, as we will support all good government proposals and vice versa, we will not support bad proposals either.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56679	Two minutes. National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56680	We've heard from you that you will support anything good from the opposition. Are you telling us that in these three years, no good proposal has come to the opposition to support it? Is that what you said? Or do you want to tell us that when we proposed to make savings in the 2009 budget, 2010, 2011 and that money was replaced by the most damaged local self-governments, that it was also not a good enough proposal? I don't think that's true, that there were a lot of valid proposals just when the budget law was passed all these years before. There were a lot of proposals and amendments concerning cost cuts, direct costs of state bureaucracy, and increasing dedicated resources to local self-government, so you did not support it. Don't tell us now how you'll support everything that's for the benefit of the citizens. Yes, it was for the benefit of the citizens, and so for the benefit of the citizens and especially the local self-government, and the reduction of the damage caused to them by your decision to cut transfers. You didn't back it up again. So we can't function that way that we'll take our word for it. Because if we had trusted you with a word for everything you've promised so far for the past ten years, I think this would be a land of prosperity. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Turns out everything you said, everything you suggested turned into the opposite. I am afraid that this topic, which is really essential for Serbia and for all its citizens, is also something that has to come, that through this legislative proposal and through what you propose is not completely devastated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56681	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Time is available for three minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56682	Honored Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government speaks of municipal taxes. Just because he's talking about the original income of local self-government, he'd probably have the least to do with the motivation of national legislation. Look at the wonders, this particular member was the most tempting one to make amendments, so this amendment is also accompanied by this promoter in the same spirit. Not as the representative of the amendment's proposings said because he sensed that a style would be created within the government's coalition on the law, that he would try to intervene, but like all these amendments and the whole discussion in particular, only to continue the debate in principle and during the debate in particular. So this amendment to Article 2 is, according to its content, speculative, polite, or high words for such low causes, or fixed. Therefore, I will not deal with its content in this debate, precisely because it is nothing from such an element by the promoter, that, as the esteemed Mr Nikola Novakovic would say, in that area, the amendment promoter would not beat me to the experience. So I prefer to talk about the motif of such a speculative amendment, because as well as the whole debate in principle, he was led by the following logic. To present the draft law on the agenda of this session, as a political maneuver, as a pre-election calculation, as a law concerning everything and everything, other than the area in question, so that it would actually turn out that the only objections that can be given to it have such a character, and that the law itself is more sensitive to Serbia's political scene, because unlike its habits, rhetoric is clouded in simulation, this law is starting to talk about life-related topics. This really seems frightening, for the prevailing political discourse in Serbia, that someone intends to take legislation out of the citizens' life interest and that someone intends to deal with life issues, and also by offering answers to such questions. It seems to me that this amendment is also motivated just like the whole debate, but all that really matters is that it just confirms the emancipation, reform character of this legislation, what we're proposing the law and we wanted. It confirms its belonging to the Corps of Ideas and the topic of decentralisation and that they are already looking forward to it. (President: National MP, the time available to the parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56683	MP Bojan Đuric. Time available for 12 minutes and 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56684	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. It's a pretty devastating atmosphere where we end this debate in the details of the law. We've just started, you're right, we're still on Article 2, and I'm not sure the opposition, or that the opposition MPs are the most responsible for that. However, here there is a political party or NGO, or a party association, decide on your own now called the URS, which is making every effort to explain to us that it arrived in Serbia yesterday, and today for the first time in parliament. So Mr. Milenic, many who have spoken about him are calling for an argument, I don't know how you have so far with these terrible and evil political parties, which is the second name for the syntagmic political class, the natural political class that the SNS used at one stage of its political career, but now that we've come to the political scene, we are clean, new, retired, almost Baptists, everything will be better. Mr Dinkic practically spoke perfectly in his presentation this morning, by completely drawing out the way that his party and the ministries have acted in the past seven or eight years, based exactly on their incredible political power, the name that was made around G17, precisely on the fact that, I admit, in this schedule of political forces that they were set up in Serbia, which are now so gallantly critical, have always managed to fight for the best, most pervasive, most useful places. Of course, they also participate in this distribution of party, directorial positions in public enterprises, but, behold, I admit that they are more skilled, craftier than DS and than that of DSS in governments before that, so they chose mostly non-losing enterprises, or which legally cannot make losses. You know, it's not hard being a successful director in Serbia's lottery, since Serbia's lottery has a profit under the law. If we can only establish these same standards... (President: National MP, unless you intend to transfer Lutri Serbia to the local level on the agenda. )......................................................................................................... Of course, it is possible, of course, that this is a possible scenario, since there is no reason for the court to move to Sremska Karlovce, without Serbia's headquarters being in any local environment, there is really no reason. Since Mr Dinkic said he would accept any good proposal, and since he did not accept those earlier proposals that the LDP had, it may not be a bad idea, but if we are talking about these models, here I am moving on to the local self-government units as it is really terrible to build the local roads with the republican money, we have again received these fossils that reminded me of 1988 and 1989. The whole G17 plus action is some new attempt at this nation's event. It was then an evil Federation and other Western republics, now an evil republic and a republican administration, as if it were an entity for itself, which does not exist outside the G17 plus and as if there were no four, five, six, three ministers in each government, and who knows how many directors and board presidents. It is a phenomenal argument when it comes from a party that has managed the national investment plan for years, and then Raca, one of the bus stops in this year, gets almost 46 million dinars from the NIP budget, and the most significant part of those funds goes for something called untegrated roads, the village of Saranova. This is how the project was described in the Decision of the Republic Government on the allocation of NIP funds. Otherwise, from the NIP, 65 to 70% of the money was allocated to the ministry, which, under its firm hand and control, holds the party's G17 plus staff. The password from year to year, Loznica is also one of the resistances of this party, and I hope I don't get too upset with the management of that municipality. Last week, we were sharp, so our visiting MPs suddenly had to change the location where they spoke, as their hall was cancelled at the last minute, the stands were held in some classroom. I hope that doesn't happen after today's session. Password 91m, almost 1m euros in 2011, and Hall "Lagator" apparently a project of the greatest national importance since it invests in it year after year. I don't want to talk about 970 million again for Kragujevac, but I have to mention these poor 452 thousand received by Pribo last year and a whole series of municipalities in that part of Serbia were getting smaller or bigger funds depending on what the relationship was or what the arrangement of the parties ruling at a bar towards the republican government was and it never did. As Mrs Grubjesic would say, last week, victory is not seen in the teeth, and so is the case of Bora, but I think it is a state-of-the-art indignity, especially when the government of 21 April 2010, means exactly 30 days before the elections, through the Development Fund, whose chairman of the Management Board is then Minister Mladjan Dinkic, sets 220 million dinars, alleged loans to Bor. It is not difficult to get 23% in such a city, if five, five and a half thousand families depend directly on the salary they will receive from RTB, and most of these funds are taken from these 220 million dinars. Two million and 200,000 euros or maybe two and a half million euros at that time went to buy the election result. Serbia had the misfortune that people were praying to God and users of the republican budget, that these repeat local elections would be in the smaller local environment, since somehow it costs less to buy votes in Arangelovac than in Bor, what we will have there is a big combination, so it just has to be more invested. Another thing that is very interesting, and this is the research of Mr Dinkic, how come the Republic, this evil republic, the government that never sat in G 17 plus gives transfers to local public utility companies? Several times it was that G 17 plus correct that mistake, if they really wanted to do it. First, local public utility companies are in huge debt to republican enterprises. On the one hand, because three, three, three and a half years you've abolished a significant part of the transfer, and on the other hand because they're victims of monopolist enterprises, primarily "Serbia-gas", so the total debts at the moment are 20 billion dinars, almost half of which are according to "Serbia-gas". If you are against it, then I expect you to vote against the emergency agenda in this assembly next week, which is another guarantee for "Serbia-gas" at 210m euros. Since Serbian citizens are usually lost in these large numbers, which seem to them to have nothing to do with real life, 210m euros to be thrown into Bajatovic's failed holding company is exactly half of this amount they need to get units of local self-government under this law of yours. Keep Bajatovic from breaking the law through the Assembly and saving half of the funds, so that we may give up the argument that a large budget gap will be created on the bulky side, or a new deficit in the republican budget. What you can't give to local self-government units, especially those where they're deeply encumbered in power, you give through other types of subsidies – in goods, in mahouts, etc., although you're getting harder since 2008 and 2009 when you've been introduced into that company by the arrival of "Gasprom". What other concrete suggestions have you not accepted? The mining rent could be a significant source of income for local self-government units, especially in those parts of Serbia that are fortunate to have G 17 plus in them. Some others have the essential happiness of having mineral and other wealth, so using profits or benefits from it will not be as short-lived as your stay in power will be. Three percent is a mine rent. If it were 12 or 15%, it might be easier for Mr. Milenic to make it easier for the town of Kragujevac to get even more out of that position of statistic, as he likes to say, to go one dynamic way and give up this speculative development that is now becoming more or less based. It's funny when you call for the successes of the "Fiyat" next to the Czech Republic or Slovakia, which have 20 billion euros per year of total income from the automotive industry, without these subsidies. Even new loans from the Development Fund will not help. I'm not even going to read the Development Fund's decisions from March 20th 2008, where one previous government, which wasn't you, was buying votes. This is going in order: Leader 150 million, Grock 130, Old City 160, Bor 160 again, etc., etc. Then what will be the finale of this election campaign? It's a question of credibility. That's why the clear answer to your question is why you don't trust us for the 15th time. When Mr. Senic says that reform decisions are difficult but they must be made so that the parties sometimes lose their elections because of it, it is true, only because they are called reform decisions, because they are difficult and unpopular. In case G 17 plus there were no such decisions, that's why you didn't lose the election. You mainly made decisions that were populist and investment in the future election result. I'm glad you've managed to regulate at least some of your problems with coalition partners. We weren't looking forward to it, but I'm telling you honestly, in a situation where you were accusing each other. A good example was this famous public debate that you are now rejecting. This public debate was... Mrs. Komic, if the same standards apply to everyone, then they should also apply to Mrs. Grubjesic. If we can't break up while we're talking, then that should be true for everyone. Both she and I and DS representatives were on that so-called. a public debate in the Assembly that has come down to the insult of the DS and the ruling coalition to that level that Mr Dinkic at one point made it quite clear and warned the public that the proposal for a law on property and the return of property to municipalities would be a fraud to the government or parties running the government. Is it true what I just said, Mr. Dinkich? In the meantime, you've obviously ironed the conflict. If you have come to these amendments that are even worse than your basic bill, not to have any kind of pain to the DS, if that means they are no longer half-trons, slow and incompetent as they were a month and a half or two days ago in your eyes, then I'm glad you've managed to buy six months of coalition peace. Until the election, not to the budget, because I deeply believe that next year's budget will not be, that you will go to temporary funding and that this will solve the problem you have with entering the elections. I think that's practically all LDP has to say about this law and its contents at the moment. You intend to pass this law. Not that it was party law, this was also the party session you were having, to the extent that you brought Mr. Novakovic into an incredible situation to violate the Rules of Procedure in this way. A new year will begin and a new government will come and I believe this law will be suspended and we will go to proper decentralisation. Our problem with Mr. Novakovic will be resolved both before the Court and the OSCE and before the Council of Europe and the European Commission, as it is not enough to counter your obligation to adopt new electoral legislation, you will already have to show that your institutions are functioning. You're the paradigm of that dysfunction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56685	The parliamentary group's time has been used, thank you. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word. You have 14 minutes from the parliamentary group and four minutes. (Vojko Senić, from the place: Replica! You have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56686	The well-meaning of amendments or motivation is too much to waste time on justifying why someone has submitted an amendment. I'll just remind you when it was time to think about local self-government. At the time of the adoption of the Value Added Tax Act in 2005, when local self-government was denied the right to tax on sales, it was necessary to take into account how to compensate or replace the funds they lack. From 2005 to 2011, here, six years have passed. It was the real and first moment when he felt a lack of funds. One who wants to run a serious state must not be distracted by the mind at any time, especially if the large tax policy decisions, the tax system, the tax administration, were made by him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56687	Does anyone else want a word in the amendment debate on Article 2? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56688	With this amendment, we actually want to remove a few concerns. First, this whole concept of your bill has nothing to do with decentralisation, has nothing to do with financial or fiscal. Why? Because you're asking it to increase from 40% to 80%. We're talking about what happened. the reduced income from the income tax of citizens. That tax is the original income of the Republic. What you're giving, whether 10, whether 20, whether 90%, does not mean decentralisation in a fiscal sense, because the Republic still determines, makes an account, etc., but gives up its share of income. This law does not decentralize. That's what they don't know how to use. Furthermore, it is said – if we increase from 40 to 80% what remains in the local self-government unit, we have done a great deal and a great deal. Here, we have proposed by amendment that income be made on the basis of the income tax, 50% to belong to the Republic, 50% to the local self-government unit. Why didn't you accept that? Do you know that the whole collection mechanism is in the hands of the Republic? Do you know why this law is changing in your direction? It changes, among other things, because the existing law is not respected, it is not applicable. What do your people say from a regular city conference? He says -- we asked the government to allow municipalities, and there's no reason not to, to control the payment of taxes divided between municipalities and the Republic, parallel to the republican services. So the municipalities can't control it. They couldn't control it so far, they won't be able to control it in the future. Why? Because the total tax is in the hands of the property administration. Next, what does this Sasha of yours from Paracino say? He says a lot of things. He says -- we asked for permission, the Republic is slow, it's metaphysic, and it's not able to control less taxpayers. Mr. Dinkic didn't make anything up. That's all the local self-government is complaining about. However, Mr. Dinkic, your math was a little bit earlier when you said how these additional funds would be provided. You said – 15 billion there is a possibility now in the budget to be provided, so you said you could go through the Roads Directorate to secure ten more, but those funds are not in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so you straightened out, so you said the funds were shown in the consolidated account of the Republic. How can you get funds out of there without first changing some regulation that regulates the receipts of the Road Directorate, road companies? That's interesting stuff. Babies and frogs get mixed up, so you've admitted it a little while ago, the next article will show it, 1.7% of GDP for you is just the basis for the reckoning. In the current law, he guarantees that the amount is paid to units of local self-government. By changing that 1.7 is just a calculation you mathematically proved that next year there will be no 50 and some million, billions of dinars for non-purpose transfers, but 30 and something. So, all this stuff you've been saying, it's melted. It's just a story here. There are no results. The result will be to reset the existing state. In the next amendment, we will explain to you where the key to solving all problems is. Then the bill says – if 80% of the income tax is allocated to local self-government, then it is interested in controlling and charging. Your people say they don't allow them to control the charge now. Explain one thing to me - will we then allow situations to form public income municipal administrations in addition to the Republic Public Revenue Administration to control each other? Simply, every legal project you invent is conflicting in its essence, and it doesn't solve a single problem. You have no answer to the question – why doesn't 50% take local self-government, 50% take the Republic? You say 80. You've mathematically come up with something, but you've just forgotten, that side of the expenditure, you've treated it as a spending party and the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the entire consolidated balance of the Republic of Serbia. Those two things are incomparable, Mr Dinkic. This project is designed to fail, it doesn't solve any problems, it just needs to shut its mouth to those in local self-government and to create a new starting position in the next year where 1.7 that needs to be paid, 50 and some billion, is just going to be a reckoning, and it's going to be worth 30 and something. So, fraud. We are in a time of fraud and trouble for the people to forget what you did in 2006, Mr Dinkic. Let me get back to that amendment to Article 2. We know what the proceeds are based on the company. It is not a problem, but in that article and in that amendment, you have demonstrated the principle that you do not want continuity, because if you wanted continuity, then you would accept the reasoning of what happened on 1 January 2007 plus the indexation for the future. No, you want to cover your tracks, to hide the actual state, and the actual state, the third year, is not the law. How is that possible not to apply the law? We've only submitted amendments to get out of the open to make a point that the law is not respected, that no law has been applied by whom? By the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Who was on that team, and who worked and acted in 2006 in July to pass the Law on the financing of local self-government? And then, in 2006, we told you what the consequences of this concept would be, why did we know that there would be these consequences? Because we know that talking about decentralisation is just a public story. Essential decentralisation is not available, nor can it be implemented in Serbia. Why? Because the proposings of both this and this law forgot only one thing, that one original business, original jurisdiction and original income, that another business was entrusted, that it was quite the third transfer and that it was quite the fourth thing transfers. You've just told a story about how to make savings in the republican budget. Are you aware that this is how you said that the provisions of the Finance Act, the local self-government, which speaks of functional and dedicated transfers, should no longer apply? Why didn't you take it to change? You could've ended it now, after such beautiful mathematics as you've shown, that we can all get anything from nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56689	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. It is available for 11 minutes and one minute and 20 as an authorised representative. Representative Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56690	Mr. Krasic, you talk a lot, and you're not focused enough, so don't follow me in the presentation. I've repeated here three times that 1.7 GDP is just the accounting basis for determining the transfer and that the transfers will not be 52 billion dinars, but will be 32 and 3 billion dinars, respectively. It's not a scam, it says in this law, and I say it openly. I think that's good. Transfers go half as low as developed cities, and for only small places like Leban, Black Treva, Bujanovac, Presheva, Medvedje and others they get bigger transfers. We want to make the social fairer distribution of the transfer and save it the same way. On the other hand, the gain consists of 43 billion dinars getting cities and municipalities based on higher participation in the profit tax. The other thing is, just don't say it's a scam when I say it's a postulate of the law or you haven't heard it. I apologize if you haven't heard or thought about something else while you were saying it. Anyway, I've done it three times today, and here's the fourth time now. As far as the local tax administration is concerned, why not? Why do you think cities and municipalities can't be able to collect income tax, because when they started collecting property tax, which is also given as the original income of the municipality by some civil servants, they said that now that the republican tax administration is transferred to the local, how will it affect the payment? And it turns out, the results show that much more property taxes are being collected now that it is administered by local self-government than was the case when the Republic did. Why? As soon as that is their income now, they are motivated to collect it to a greater extent than it is the Republic. It'll be the same for the profit tax. The moment this is transferred, and I think it should be transferred at one point to the tax administration's key to collecting income taxes in municipalities and cities, and not in the Republic, because 80% will stay in those cities, you'll see that suddenly there will be less gray economies, less people will work on black, because the municipalities themselves, the people in the cities will be interested in chasing those in the gray economy to enter the legal sector, so 80% of the taxes on their profits will enter the local budget. The basic force of this law we propose is motivation, motivation to depend on the employment of people, not to depend on the assistance that the Republic gives you, first of all, are transfers, but to depend on yourself, on your knowledge, on the climate that you can achieve at the place, that someone comes to you to open up the company or that existing entrepreneurs can employ more people. It takes the presidents of the municipalities to race and help entrepreneurs to work more, to employ more people. The motive is what drives the world, and the key thing and the key power of this law is motive. It is a direct answer to your question – why not half. You said -- why not half the municipalities, half the republics? No, it's better if the place stays longer and it's not proportionally more, 80 cities, where some tax is charged, and only 20 republics, because then all 170 cities and municipalities are more motivated to encourage entrepreneurship and then that money that's being charged stays in that city.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56691	National MP Zoran Krasic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56692	This is simply amazing, that from the negative effects that have arisen as a result of disrespect and non-compliance with the law, some conclusions are drawn for the future that are absolutely wrong. From a negative fact, there's an even more negative fact. Mr. Dinkic, I understand exactly what you want, but the existing law says that 1.7% of the gross social product is distributed. It's a legal obligation. It's that 50 and a few billion that the existing law guarantees. Well, of course you've rewritten it and you're saying that 1.7% is going to be the calculation, the accounting category, which we're going to subtract from at the determination and you're going to be down to 31, as you said. That's another estimate. Well, when you've been pressed with the data, and where you'll be provided with the resources needed, as you say, then you say one part will be provided with savings in the budget, another part of the Road Directorate, because it won't pave the way for local roads, etc. And how are you going to solve that when it's in a consolidated balance sheet, in the financial plans of the final accounts of the public enterprise, when it's not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia's budget? The component of the Republic of Serbia's budget is 1.7% of the gross social product that is distributed, not 1.7% as the accounting category, that is. This is about one piece of mathematically unproven. The savings are reportedly made in the budget and in the consolidated account. That's two incompatible categories, please. So then you move on, and you say - 80% of the taxes should be controlled by local self-government through your tax administration. So, you're reopening some administrative places? Apparently, the Republic isn't interested when it's supposed to take 60, and it's gonna be interested when it's supposed to take 20%. So, tell me, what logic is that? (President: Two minutes. It's been reported to reset the existing situation to start from the beginning that some of these presidents of the municipality don't commit suicide, and two... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56693	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Vojko Senić, from the place: Replica. National MP Vlajko Senić, do you want a replica? (Vojko Senić, from the place: Yes. You have no right to a replica. (Vojko Senić, from the place: I want the word after the amendment then.) ) The time of the parliamentary group has been used, only in the event that the president of the parliamentary group of powers, then you have the right. If the president of the parliamentary group has been empowered by Vlajko Senic, I will give the word. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the Edip Sheriffs. The president and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56694	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable legislators, the Honorable MPs, I would first like to apologize for speaking more in principle than necessary. For family reasons, I couldn't participate in the principle debate. Secondly, I would like to appeal to the rest of the people's MPs, who have remained, with due attention, to complete this part of our duties and jobs and in late time to allow the presidents to finish the session properly. The PUPS parliamentary group in preparation for the debate on this law had two facts in mind. The first is that the law is very important, that one of the reform processes is and, secondly, an agreement has been reached within the ruling coalition to put it on the agenda in parliament. That's why we gave the signatures to get him on the agenda. Starting with these two facts, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that the amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government have a particularly state-of-the-art, I would also say national interest. Likewise, both economically and politically. That is why we have proposed that this law should be prepared by the government and that such agreement be reached, and not only by the Government, but also by the opposition. In that sense, I think it is very good that any public debate has been carried out within Parliament, but in this public hearing, I have not seen many MPs who would like to contribute to the application of this law to the interests and to achieve a higher degree of agreement on this. Personally, I think that this would avoid the consequences of the debate in parliament, primarily the result of the politicisation that was present in principle and today in the debate in particular. We draw attention to the fact that the law could have been learned with several arguments, explained, especially from the aspect that this project will cause in application. I'll only point to four. First, there are many more local self - administrations in our Republic, or municipalities in the area of underdevelopment. You say there's 40 of them. We can agree that this is the starting base that we are talking about, but I think it can be said that these 40 municipalities are devastated and are in a much more difficult position than the significant number of municipalities in the area of underdevelopment, the area of poverty. Therefore, more attention should be paid to the preparation of this project and to include as many and as many political and other entities as possible, especially the professional public on this subject, although I cannot say that this was not the case. This assumes that in the next period by setting criteria and improving the criteria for the establishment of underdevelopment of municipalities will require much more funding. Secondly, I would point to another aspect of what the honourable MPs today indicated. The problem can happen in municipalities that don't have projects. We are witnesses of this daily tour of the municipalities. They don't have the capacity, they don't have human resources, especially professional personnel to accomplish what we stand for. That's where the problem can happen. I'm not suggesting it's a weakness of this law, but we're going to have this problem on the ground. I think what we do if in the right way it is not designed to automatically mean for greater development of municipalities greater employment in municipalities, a better standard of citizens. Then we won't have an effective realization of this law. In this regard, I personally do not think that it is possible to avoid the responsibility and need for all ministries, governments, institutions, professional services of the Republic, or the state to provide assistance to such communities, such municipalities. We have to take care of that. The third fact should be borne in mind that this law does not decentralise the state. Whether fiscal or not, we can talk about it. Also, there is no transfer of competence of new functions. In this regard, I am also developing the thesis that we do not have to perform more functions and transfer competences to municipalities, we do not even have adequate capacity in many municipalities, especially in these underdeveloped municipalities. It's our obligation to think about it, too. Fourthly, we believe that the effects of applying this law in no way, there have been a lot of words here about it cannot endanger the isolation of three key things – pensions, social contributions and wages in the public sector. Although we can get that guarantee, and if that guarantee stems from the law, then we will probably be easier to accept the solutions offered, and in that sense, achieve a higher degree of consent. It is our obligation to point out and warn, both the promoter and the government, as well as the country in general. It should be taken into account, according to our assessment, and these views. I have not seen the opposites of the promoter, in terms of both suggestions and some IMF remarks, and especially the Fiscal Council. Finally, the PUPS parliamentary group warns of a common risk that we have taken as the ruling coalition and have entered for possible consequences. It's a big commitment and responsibility. As if it were from that ruling coalition we're aware of it and we'll take it from here. We're conscious of the risk, and if it comes to it, we have to accept it and solve it together. For these reasons, with the normal acceptance of these amendments that are here nine, and in the additional explanations that I have heard here today, and publicly from the promoter, Mr Dinkic, we will define ourselves to support this project. In the end, I'll say no, and I'd like to ask those who talked today about the threat of retirement, social pay or retirement, not to do so. Other laws have done so and nothing can be questioned – the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the Budget Act, the PIO Act guarantees it. We also need to provide the 2012 Budget Law, and in this respect, we will give full support and participate in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56695	Nine minutes and 50 seconds have been used, so the entire time of the parliamentary group has been used and you have eight minutes left, I apologize to the authorised representative, or representative of the parliamentary group. Representative Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56696	I would like to comment on these views, especially this last one, to guarantee that this law will not endanger pensions and social benefits, as well as public sector wages. That's understood. I've been getting the impression all day that we're talking about the Republic Funding Act, not the law on funding local self-government. This law doesn't regulate pensions, public sector salaries, social contributions -- neither does it, nor is it his ambition, nor can you deal with it. This is a law on funding local self-government that should give more money to our cities and municipalities. Of course, those who were the opponents of this law, I don't mean your MP group, they're going to scare the citizens apart, I'd say, nebuloses -- there won't be pensions, there won't be this or that. This is done roughly whenever someone doesn't want to make any extra criticism on a proposal, then they're afraid of citizens, what's quite certain, though, you said in your final statement – pensions are regulated by special laws that aren't on the agenda here, and there will be no guarantee. It's legal for pensions to be paid. It stands and exists in the law exactly how they are indexed and there is no dilemma there that will continue to work. The same goes for social contributions, as well as public sector wages. All these categories make up a significant part of the total republican budget. However, they do not make up the whole republican budget. Now I don't know by heart, from 800 billion, on pensions, probably 200 billion going to the Social Fund another 80 billion, for public sector salaries probably another 100 billion. So half of the budget could go to all of this, but in this second half there's room for these 40 billion dinars of savings. I tried to tell you what to go into, to cut it down. It is certainly not pensions, social benefits and salaries in the public sector. This must be increased in a way that provides opportunities for countries and laws that regulate the area. On the other hand, non-road expenditure of the Republic administration needs to be reduced, especially those related to local projects. We suggest that the Republic no longer operates local projects. In this I disagree with you, which is the fact that there are municipalities that have no projects, have no knowledge and no people, and they need to be stopped with bigger money. I mean it especially for those who don't have projects. Unfortunately, not only do local self-government not only have no projects, but it has proved in the last 10 years that the Republic has not had projects for Corridor 10. The last project for Corridor 10 ends only this year, although it has been a national project for 20 years. Even the Republic should have all these projects, and she doesn't have a lot of projects. Then what do you expect from Black Grass, Bosilegrad and the others? Now the municipalities will have money to pay for projects if they don't have them. They can pay for projects to be made by specialised institutions who know how to do those projects. The Republic will also co-finance such projects in less developed areas and those most underdeveloped. It is also an observation that this does not carry out a transfer of jurisdiction. All I have to say is that it doesn't stand, because the law on the financing of local self-government does not determine jurisdiction but finance. The jurisdiction is determined by the Law on Local Self-Government. The problem that has been shown in practice is not within the competences of local self-government, but against those today they have too many powers in relation to the money given from the Republic and which remains on the basis of the salary tax. So, we need to coordinate already enough jurisdiction with the right money. The municipalities were transferred various responsibilities – from the care of health homes, through the payment of jubilee awards, and they were not given the right money to do so and then stayed at risk. Now we need to fill that hole and give them enough money to exercise more jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56697	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, this amendment is very important. We felt that it was the moral obligation of the promoter, Mr Dinkic, to accept this amendment, because we consider it one of the most responsible for this poor situation and the great differences in development between Belgrade and Novi Sad, and us from the interior of Vojvodina and Central Serbia. I'll explain the amendment first. What was our idea? If all of us in the Republic are already filling the republican budget and from that budget is funded by a series of agencies, a number of institutions, that we have a large number of public funds users, so these are the funds of all of us, then the income tax, the 80% proposed by Mr Dinkic, should go to this solidarity fund and be paid out of this solidarity fund by municipalities according to the number of residents, according to the number of citizens. In this way, we wouldn't be in a situation from the inside if we were to beg and take something from Belgrade, we would get what is ours, and Belgrade would get, as would all Serbian citizens, based on how much they have paid in that budget and how much they have spent the institutions financed from the budget would have had those resources. Unfortunately, there was no will or desire to accept this amendment because it was basically not supported by coalition partners, because it would have an important impact on the redistribution of funds and probably the fund would have been more fuller, which is what did not suit the promoter. This convinces us in some belief that this, as many of my colleagues have said, is a political law. The second part, which refers to the fact that there are moral reasons for the promoter to accept this amendment, is the fact that thanks to economic policy, whose main protagonist was Mr Dinkic, and to the model of economic growth that we had in the past 10 years, today Serbia's interior, small municipalities are so poor and with such small standards. Namely, what's been going on in the last 10 years? We had a terrible appreciation for the dinars. This dinar appreciation forced imports, not exports. We had a terrible liberalisation when importing different goods. All of this destroyed the economy, and the economy was largely concentrated on the interior of Belgrade. We couldn't develop services like Belgrade. In Belgrade today, there are the largest number of importers, in Belgrade today you have the following services, means traffic, you have the fact that financial services are booming, you have the fact that there is a great concentration and a great demand, because most of the funds collected from all over Serbia and through the privatisation process have been spent in establishing various agencies and increasing the public sector. In that sense, we are completely out of balance with Belgrade and there is no way that it can be corrected by any law, or by any law, I would say to the law, as one of my colleagues said, because it doesn't make any difference. What we need is investment in industrial production. We from the inside can either go through the development of industry or through the development of agriculture to help increase the number of employees, and then we would have the possibility that this 80% means something in the budgets. Unfortunately, the economic policy that is being led today will certainly reduce the number of jobs, and above all in the interior, because you have the fact that the large inflation that has been caused, primarily by public consumption, is hampered by a course of dinars that is inappropriate. You have the fact that by 40% in agriculture, the cost has increased, which is fuel, which is seed goods, which are fertilizers, and on the other hand, the price of these agricultural products that are formed on the world market thanks to this unreal course of dinars will remain the same. So our farmer from which we live from the interior won't be able to earn anything this year, and as far as these economic policies are concerned, it will be important to reflect, and that is what all economic experts say about the reduction of jobs. Where are we going to have these jobs reduced? Well, not in the public sector, not in these agencies around Belgrade, not in the ministries around Belgrade. We'll have them in the private sector and in this private sector, above all, in the interior. So, this whole law, this whole concept is essentially an empty story. An empty story because there is a different economic policy behind it than one model of economic growth based on industrial production, and that is another reason why this law is unacceptable. But if there were at least a little morality, a little honor for Mr Dinkic, since it is the most responsible for this unsustainable economic policy and this model of growth that was unsustainable in the long run, that at least this way it shows good will, so we could say that behind all this is going on with this law there is good will. Unfortunately, these goodwills are gone and this law remains unacceptable, the most ordinary politics, the most common fraud, the spilling from hollow to empty and the dizziness of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56699	Four minutes has been used since the MPs' time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, New Serbia's MP group and Mr Miroslav Markicevic, have submitted an amendment to Article 3 in which we are seeking and an 80% percentage is changed by a percentage of 100%, i.e. a member of the 35th in point 1 of subpoint 6) is amended and it is said: 100% of the income tax paid to the employee's residence. I'll read the explanation and explain it orally. In fact, the solution contained in the bill represents some kind of compromise variant compared to the current Law on the financing of local self-government. We believe that, if everything already wants the tax base of employee earnings to remain where these employees live, and the vast majority of them do, it is fairer that the percentage should be expressed in a 100% amount, i.e. that the total amount of tax belongs to local self-government units. You'll admit, there's a little irony we've submitted to this amendment. Namely, citizens, between those 500 and something they signed, say they were promised, just when they gave the signature, that the tax on their earnings would remain in their municipality. The percentage below 100 percent nobody told them. We were motivated to submit such an amendment. There were a lot of words here about how Serbia is being visited and how poor municipalities are being visited and how the rest of us don't know how hard people live there, unlike those who visit these municipalities, see them and cry over these sad fates, but still return to their Belgrade apartments. I am one of those who comes from one of the municipalities and from a city that was a European city when Belgrade was a Turkish cassaba and Sombora. So, I'm always proud to say that, and I'm proud to leave every morning and go back there every night, and I think I'll welcome some later days and that pension that might be very questionable now, if there are laws like this in place. I agree entirely with Mr Dinkic about one thing, that the Republic administration of the trom is too big and too expensive. Only one thing he didn't tell the citizens of Serbia here, that he was just one of those who had made that republican administration up to an enormous amount. I would ask him, or I would remind him of only one part of that administration that could and would be obliged now to fill in exactly that budget he promises citizens, let's say the economic ambassadors. You remember how many halabucas there were in the election of economic ambassadors who would draw for the ears of strong investors, we'd be on our way, we wouldn't know what hit us, and we really don't know what hit us. They take some wages there, they don't know what it costs the citizens of Serbia, but I have to tell you it costs a lot. Let the citizens themselves wonder, when they add, how much it costs, and they will see, the effect of zero. So far, we've never seen one of those ambassadors present anything and bring someone here. Those 500 thousand signatures for me would have been very valid if it hadn't been for the signatories in my town that they hadn't signed it, but what we suggested by the amendment, that's what offered them, many, not all of them. Then, if they're not paid back two years, by local self-government, what's so far been mandatory and what's less than what's promised them, what's this than an empty promise. Wasn't there a time to help them when the 2011 budget was passed, when these same presidents of municipalities and cities, the mayors were passing through these halls, and I think you all know that they were in all the parliamentary clubs and they were bringing us their amendments and praying to us, and now I have in my e-mail many amendments, asking us to submit the amendments, to help them, not to be taken, to not be reduced, to have them at least something yes, there was no hearing. I have to remind Mr Dinkic, he was then Minister of Economy and Regional Development. What did he do then as responsible minister? When did he start seeing grief in some municipalities of Serbia? As a sign of goodwill, he could do something to start convincing citizens that his word has a truly specific weight, a promise that will be fulfilled, to fulfill a promise long before. Nearly five million of them, at 970 euros to start paying them, so that they pour it into Serbia's economic flows, will immediately pay bills that are required not to cut their electricity, water, gas, other benefits, charge their debts, because here the state is charging all their debts, and citizens can't collect anything. Remember how long court proceedings take, etc. So that would be the beginning of goodwill and a sign that someone really wants and cares about the citizens here, those who really have a hard time living and whose 970 euros this moment means a lot to them. That would be persuasion and belief that a good intention has indeed come to life. So, in plain language, pay what you promised, what you owe, and then these promises that are very active, very current, very interesting, very populist, sweet ear, everyone likes to hear that they will get some money that someone so easily promises, but already taught by bad experiences we know that so far there has been nothing. To begin with, let what the government owes them so far be paid. We cannot agree to a new delusion that those who come from these cities, you who remain in the capital and live there, remind us of where we live, because we are not aware of it and you accuse us that we are not good to ourselves. It's not fair, it's not hypocritical, it's not normal. So, it would be good if some of what is already due to citizens and municipalities first met, and then told their marketing story. To that end, I again claim and remind everyone that we as a parliamentary group have asked for 100% to remain with the municipalities. We know it's inconclusive, like it's inconclusive and this is with 80%. We therefore expect that someone who leads the policy of this country, who claims to continue to deal with politics, no longer makes Serbia a country that survives at the very edge of probability, whose future depends only on the sense of humor of several politicians.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56701	Seven minutes and 15 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. Anyone else want a word? (No) The group was submitted to the 4th Amendment, in the same text, to the 21st People's MP of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and together MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. National MP Arsic Veroljub has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish there was a representative of the promoters, because he often used some examples of the life of local self-government, from domestic legislation, mentioning the words of motivation, which I'm going to return to later on. He also mentioned the town of Fireman. Yes, in Pogorevec there is a paradox that a republican road passes through the city center, not just one street, but more. The second paradox is that Pogorec has a bypass that connects the republican roads and that bypass is within the jurisdiction of local self-government, and the city centre is in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic Road Directorate. We have another paradox, in order for the local self-government in Pogorevc to arrange the streets that are in the Republic's jurisdiction, must seek the consent of the Republic Directorate, so that citizens do not drive cars in holes, in craters and not list any further. However, I believe it is one of the few examples, since our municipalities in Serbia are far more poor, most of them, than the Fireman. I would like to set an example of Golupac, which has 24 settlements, about 9,000 voters, about 6,000 people living there, that there aren't many people who work in both the public and private sectors, and that we're introducing some tax administrations, tax inspections, under the pretext that if local self-government picks up 80% of the salary tax, it's going to belong to local self-government. First of all, I wish Mr. Proposer, when he was a minister, had learned the laws he himself wrote and had taken part in. The income tax is a Republic tax. Absolutely no jurisdiction has a local tax inspection for profit tax. Nor does it exist at all or any legal option in the tax procedure, in the tax administration that it controls economic operators whether they pay taxes on profits. One of the taxes that can be controlled by a local tax inspection is local taxes considered to be the original incomes of local self-government. We said there was one to tax and a property tax. There are several more taxes, but profit tax is not the original income of local self-government and local self-government through its tax authorities cannot control the payment of that tax. The authority responsible for this is the Republic Labour Inspectorate, on the one hand, and on the other hand the Republic Tax Administration. One colleague said – if they were not motivated to charge 60% of the tax so far, how will we motivate a republican authority to charge only 20% of one tax? That this is a clean marketing, I'm not saying that this law doesn't have any good provisions, but it's only one political marketing, and I'm also finding in the statement by an authorised representative that by lowering taxis, companies, etc., anyone who makes those taxes, I mean local self-government, that it takes care of how much they're going to be because it accounts for citizens in elections. That could have been said by a man who had never been in business and who had never been among the electoral bodies without being followed by a bunch of security or surrounded by members of his party. The company is paid by owners and entrepreneurs whose influence on the electoral body is extremely small. They can complain, they can complain, they can vote for anyone else, but they're much less than those who know why they have to pay for any product more expensive or any service to any entrepreneur or legal person. Because of all this and one approach to this whole problem, the SNS parliamentary group will not vote to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of local self-government. We also believe that this amount, which as a basis, should be of 1.7% of the GDP achieved in the territory of the Republic, is quite outdated and perhaps there could be an authorised, or proposed law, to make a certain change because what is realistic, what is tangible, what does not depend on the Republic's statistical authority is the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is financed from real bases, which is, therefore, from fiscal policy, from taxes and contributions, from excise duties and from customs. Only in this way can we have the right basis in which way and which means will be allocated to local self-government. Since this is also about the creator of the old law, I can only say that under the old law local self-governments were forced to address the Republic of Serbia for assistance on certain infrastructure facilities, municipal infrastructure and travel economy. It went so far that even in the Budget Law, we predicted that local communities could compete with the NIP for certain projects to get the funds and that these projects would be implemented. Two practical things have happened, that the NIP has often forwarded funds directly to local communities that are neither legally nor by their expertise, nor by infrastructure, which are able to implement the procurement process. We also had a situation that in a village in the municipality of Kučevo, a sewer that was so well done, that local self-government had to remove the effects of the construction of that sewerage network from its resources. Not to mention how overpaid it was. Or, it happened that local self-government gets some funding from the NIP for some projects, that the funds are not transferred to local self-government, but that they go again through the G17 Plus Ministry, means through the NIP Ministry, directly to performers. The work that the NIP ministry paid twice as much as the unit of local self-government with the same contractor had already had a contract. If there's something good about it, it's only good because it seems to me that no one else, at least less, actually, people from G17 who are involved in all of this are going to be able to take commissions and margins. It's the only good part of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56703	Five minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Zlata Đeric has the word, as an applicant for the amendment and is available for another three minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56704	The New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 4 where we are asking for that member to be deleted. We believe that this proposed solution in Article 4 of the law eliminates a coherent norm from Article 37 of the applicable law and introduces on a small door the possibility that local self-governments do not pay off the funds that belong to them under the same law, which, unfortunately, has already become a practice for the past few years. So we only asked that the laws that have been passed so far be applied. If these laws had been implemented and implemented, local self-government would not have had a problem in which the government introduced them during the term of office. And now, after a partial exit of the government's work, after creating a quasi-opional relationship within the government and demonstrating a quasi-democracy within the government, we have before us a proposal that today is being led by a marketing propaganda of a party. However, I do believe that there is no memory of a flat fish in Serbia and that in Serbia a little longer it is remembered and that Serbia has matured for this kind of democracy to take a pen in hand and to do so in certain elections of punishment. So, not to accept the offer, but to understand what they will not, and they will not be deceived again. At least most people say so. These 500,000 signatures testify to that. Because there aren't four million of them, but 500,000. Of those 500,000, 250,000 already repented. Even so far, what has been guaranteed by the applicable law is not respected, and this in the fog, in the pre-election year, who can truly believe that it will be respected? The cities and municipalities would not send us a letter two days before this session to ask politely, because they are party people and they are responsible for their parties and we know that in 90 days, the will of citizens in 66 municipalities has been torn down, that they are shyly asking us to think about this one more time and to postpone this debate. So their shyness was actually a cry that should have been recognized. What's not good about this law is that this is party propaganda, and the oath to do something here, not partyally or politically, is just, I'm going to use the word I've heard today 200 times and I've already felt a bit sad but I have to use it - demagogy. Mr Dinkic left and I would remind him that as minister, he told Mayor Cačka Velimir Stanojevic – do you expect me to give you money without you ruling in Cačka? Today he's fighting for that same mayor to be given twice as much. Nothing he gave him. It's called a double-naked game in that kid's game. They'll recognize those who play dominoes. It is the same minister who declared the national employment service for the best in Serbia in my city and replaced the director who brought it to that status because it is not from his party. That's a fact. For 12 years, a man, as a nonpartisan person, led an excellent ministry. So we can't talk about consciousness changing. As a longtime professor, I know one truth – people don't change, they just have to come up with certain circumstances to show their temper and their true nature. Not wanting to pollute anymore, at first I said, and I stand behind the fact that this bill is only a fruit of the struggle of two vanitys – one collerical and one phlegmatic. I only expect Mr. Bankmaster of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic to react in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56705	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's precisely the fact that this amendment of the SRS has been rejected in fact by the best evidence and confirmation of every spoken word of the SRS, both in principle and in the debate in particular. I think the explanation that we have received and which this amendment refuses in fact shows all the unscrupulousness of the proposings, the insensitivity of the political and the fact that the SRS also said by rejecting this amendment that the promoter does not care about both local self-government and the level of local self-government services and the level of finance that local self-government is getting today in Serbia. Mrs. Comic, you correct me since you are the chairman here and tell me if I'm wrong. The amendment was said not to be accepted "having in mind that it does not refer to the text of the bill". I deeply believe that the Assembly committees would refuse this if that were the case. This amendment could not be the subject of debate if that were the case. But this shows and illustrates the insolence of the promoter to say that the amendment refers to who knows what, perhaps the Beer Act, perhaps to the Animal Wellbeing Act, perhaps it's how he experienced it? But I'm just going to go public with the public who's going to watch us tonight and make you colleagues who are a little more persistent, to read what the SRS actually wanted with this amendment. With this amendment, we are the one who will be in a position to enforce this law, however it should be passed, we have given it one mechanism, a means by which what you are all going to vote on today would be implemented. On the one hand, we were looking for what Mr Krasic had just talked about – that 1.7% of GDP should not be calculated, but that 1.7% of GDP should be committed to a dedicated transfer, to deploy to local self-government. That's one thing. The second thing we've been looking for is that the category of memo used here in the law is replaced by the category of fiscal report, given that the amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System category of memos have been thrown out and put in an ad act. Now you have a fiscal report. And what is most important and most important -- we asked that the minister who does not implement the provisions of Article 1 should be held accountable if it turns out that at the end of the financial year his commitment to local self-government has not been settled. I'm asking you now, gentlemen, what's wrong here and what's been unacceptable here for you as a promoter? This is an ideal opportunity to make some sublimation. Since you, as rescuers and rescuers of Serbia in the last 10 years, have asked for solutions to be offered, this is just one of the few amendments that the SRS has rounded up one continent and which has made you propose to keep the level of transfer – 1.7% on purpose, that some of the income tax be returned to local self-governments of 50%, which is not irrational as 80%. The question arises whether at this economic level and these opportunities and these 50% we asked for is certain and can it be realized? We have asked through our amendments that you give them your obligations as a result of stealing local self-government and cutting transfers that you were obliged to give them under the law, to settle it for them, and to start applying the law from the new year, from the new budget year or calendar year. Is there any more serious, rational, more meaningful, more cellular, whatever you want? No parliamentary group in this context has thought or made proposals at all. And what the SRS suggested was in some way feasible. Another thing that is very important – it has made whoever implements, as you say, this law has to do with local self-government, because they expect us to, transfer the funds that are legally required and obliged to pass on to them. Mr Dinkic says in the principle debate – well, I don't care if I'm going to be an MP and how we're going to pass, it's important to me to leave a good law in the inheritance. This is just proof, the rejection of this amendment is just proof that you don't care about local self-government, you don't care if the debts and obligations are settled according to local self-government, you don't care how the transfers to local self-government will go after October 1st. You, gentlemen, have calculated that it is cheaper for you to release this law in a local, or congregation procedure and to use this for two days, more expensive than to hang five or ten billboards across Serbia, to promote your action with 500,000 voters. You are not interested in local self-government and Serbia, you have proved this for the last 10 years. The point of all this is to politically promote and secure your censorship. The Serbian Radical Party believes that politics, whose protagonists you have been for the past 10 years, must end, must be interrupted. Such decisions, such laws and such changes in Serbia must be made by national conscious and politically responsible people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56707	Four minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56708	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could support part of this amendment regarding criminal provisions, but it's theoretically practically impossible, because you can't support part of the amendment. On the other hand, I don't believe anyone in this country can think of usurping the law in such a way as not to implement it. At the same time, in a country that seeks to meet European standards of rule of law is the basis of the principles on which the country should rest. On the other hand, every law, including this law, has the place to provide certain criminal provisions for not implementing this law, in order for someone to say – it does not oblige me, it is just a letter on paper. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that citizens will recognize those who will enforce this law in the next elections and in the elections there, because we do not pass single-use laws, that they apply only to the mandates of one government. These are laws that essentially reform and transform our society and implement essential reforms in the country. But, on the other hand, if we're talking about the percentage of profits that will belong to local self-government, it's like having a theoretical assumption that, let's say, I have a wife and three children, and as a national MP, I'm receiving 100,000 dinars. Will that family have more money at the end of the month, if I pay all the communals and taxes immediately at the beginning of the month, so I give the kids 10 or 20 thousand dollars for the allowance, or five thousand dinars, or two thousand dinars, or I don't give them at all, or what I have as 100,000 dinars in my right pocket, redistribute in my left pocket, make some new value? This law does not create a new value. That's what we disagree on. This law only makes fairer distribution of money to local self-government. But this attempt to implement ourselves, that we want to tell the citizens that this law will create some new material value, it's not good and it's wrong. We don't have that explanation for the citizens that this law is making some new revenue in the budget. Only a more just budget is allocated to local self-government. On the other hand, the kind of attitude towards local self-government, according to municipalities, towards cities in Serbia, has had opportunities for each of us to show. It is true that Serbian citizens know who was in power when the powers of local self-government were seized in 1997, who passed the law, who took part in its creation and creation, who wants to change the law and who does not want to change the law. Each of us knows exactly what he was doing, where he was, and how he dealt with local self-government at the time of his term of office. So I don't see the need for anyone to get up here from the stained veins to show up as a protector, as a concierge, as well as someone who would take care of cities, about municipalities, about local self-government, that care could show when he had the chance to run this country. Some management was reduced to governance, municipalities were left without self-government, without property, without many powers that they had through the history of multi-party people in Serbia. I'm sorry this law is passed only now, which has not been passed before. I'm sorry we haven't returned the property to local self-government yet, because without property, there's no self-government, but I am absolutely confident that this law, as well as the law that will soon be on the agenda, will correct these injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56709	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The time available for the parliamentary group is six minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56710	Can I get a replica? No, I don't. I won't talk then.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56711	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56712	Mrs. Komic, at first I wanted to explain one thing to you, in 1997 there was Ivica Dacic in power, just so you know. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: and still is. ) Warnings got Duvnjak because of something like that, but well, it doesn't matter. That's one thing. The second thing, this is nothing epochal, in June 2006 the law was passed, these are only changes and additions. Now let me go back to this amendment. Of course, the transition transfers were spent in the Law on the financing of local self-government a year and a half ago, and in the next members we submitted amendments and promoted the principle that the transition transfer should be reformed and become a development transfer. Transfer of solidarity doesn't mean anything, because if you're talking about this kind of solidarity, then it's the same as tolerance. You can expect tolerance from the one who has everything. The one who has nothing, what can he be tolerable? It's similar to solidarity. In order to replace these differences legally, it is necessary to promote that so-called. Development transfer. So the funds that depend on the degree of development are directed towards local self-government units as part of a non-purpose transfer, as part of 1.7% of GDP, which is guaranteed to local self-government units. That cake now needs as simple as possible and as fair as possible. Of course, we will talk about it later and it is totally unacceptable that your variant of social transfers where you say – the basis for social transfer is what Belgrade would get, and we will not give Belgrade. That can't stand in the law, please. All units of local self-government are according to the Constitution and the law of equality, only some graduation can be carried out. But, no, you don't want it, you draw something, you have consent to something. That thing about which you have consent is reset. What Mr. Stevanovic said was simply incomprehensible that you did not accept the amendment to the previous member. Well, all the problems in funding local self-government have arisen due to disrespect and non-compliance with the Law on the financing of local self-government. All the mayors and all the representatives of the municipalities have been screaming like Damjano Zelenko for three years and saying – we do not have an instrument to force the government to comply with the law. That's what people who are in power at the bar say, and that's what representatives of all parties say. There's no need to share that. Now the central question is how do we get the government to respect the law? How do we get the Government to keep the Budget Act from changing the material law? It's a central thing that had to change, not these gymnastics with transfers, mathematics, reckoning, what this is, how it is, etc. You applied that same math to free action and the effect is stutter. Every number multiplied by zero is zero. That can't change. How do you get Mirko Cvetkovic to respect the law? It's today's theme. Mladjan Dinkic pointed to Mirko Cvetkovic's problem. The question is now being raised how whoever proposes the law guarantees that this law will be respected in the government, and he is not in that government, and even when he was in the government, the government did not respect the law. Excuse me. A threshold of tolerance must exist. There's no room for any tolerance here anymore, because the results of the affair are negative, negative, negative. And it's got to stop somehow. We deliberately filed this amendment where we say - the minister who does not implement what the law says is believed to have committed a crime of abuse of official position, but you will not, because it is not your goal to introduce order, but to carry out reset, forget, we are starting from zero on 1 January or from 1 October, as you stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56713	A total of four minutes and 40 seconds, of which was used time by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group and minutes and 45 is from the time of the parliamentary group, so it is now available for five minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56714	Well, this is the second example where we tried to figure out a little bit and put into order what's called a general transfer. You see, we have accepted that it is still a good variant to say what is the basis for calculating the total amount of the general transfer, as an accounting category for everything and of course, we have promoted the principle that the development transfer should be essentially the difference that arises between the total amount of non-purpose transfer and this, if I may say so, the calculation general transfer, in order to reach the amount of funds for the development transfer. We didn't want to enter these criteria, the number of classes in secondary education, the number of inhabitants, the size of the territory, and their impact on distribution. Although there is reason to be told, because in certain parts of these criteria do not show the correct state and do not talk about general equality, but well, about that path. Of course, you did not accept the amendment because you believe that it completely disagrees with your variant of social transfers and that it does not agree, but you should have interpreted this amendment as part of something that represents the whole of what the SRS is proposing in these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56715	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the Edip Sheriffs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56716	With this amendment, we've only changed somewhat what the promoter predicted. The difference is in coefficients, especially in the second and first groups of development units of local self-government. I have to say why we did it. Because we had in mind that our concept of dividing the profit tax 50-50 and relative to the proposal of the promoter, we raised this coefficient for, say, Belgrade from 0.5 to 0.6, which from 50% to earnings and this part here where the calculation of the reduction of the total amount of transfers is done, some balance arises. But the law's promoters noticed that this is getting into some people's bankruptcy rights who still need to be pretty promoted, like what they're doing, say, Gilas with kindergartens, schools. He's got this positive campaign. He does not go where the problem is, but where the children are, because they are all painful when it comes to children and then he runs this positive campaign, which allows him to debt the city of Belgrade as much as possible, that the more he participates in privatising these businesses, to open, say, the Colubara affair, which some Kene would take, when Mr Gilas can. Of course, it has strong media support because 70, 80% of all seconds pass through that interested group that's around the president of the Republic. Of course, they can generously talk about giving up some income. Belgrade, however, is not only the Belgrade circle of the two. Belgrade is both Jacob and other places. Unfortunately, there was no room here to determine the mechanism for funding from the development fund, when it comes to local self-government units from the first group, because we are starting from the principle that even large places have the right to develop, not only from their own resources, but from one part of the non-intentional transfers, which come from the budget, because this is where all units of local self-government are viewed. But apparently that concept of ours can't go away. They just don't want people to think that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56717	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56718	That's the amendment where we talk about how funds should be allocated from what we say, the means of development transfer. We plan to make these funds belong to all units of local self-government, except the mass is given a really big advantage to the fourth and third groups. Here we kept the principle that 50% of the total assets belong to the fourth group, 30% belongs to the third group, and 10% to local self-government units from the second and first groups, and of course these assets are divided into equal parts within the group to which the corresponding unit of local self-government belongs. I think that's how we gave an idea of how they can be provided, so that the development funds are dedicated and mandatory, if I can use those words, while I connect it all, because this development is not a mandatory thing, but depends on some local self-government boss or some individual in local self-government. In this way we provide constant means for development and give great advantage to units of local self-government from the fourth group, and these are primarily those small environments far from Belgrade, but also from other centres, where there are few inhabitants, and by locating funds towards these units of local self-government, it seems encouraging to reduce pressure to larger places. There are assumptions that improve infrastructure, improve quality of life, because it would be a dedicated mandatory means to be placed there. Of course, it would also affect what is relevant to every normal state, not to empty space from people. But, you see for yourself, these promoters don't want to think that way. They're probably interested in something else, and something else bothers them to make such suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56719	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56720	Article 10 regulates the entry into force of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Using business restrictions, we submitted the amendment and clearly separated the two parts in that amendment. One section refers to when the law is to come into force. We believe that this law should enter into force on the eighth day of the day of publication, but should apply from 1 January 2012, because that is when the financial year begins. If this law were to be applied earlier, there would certainly be drastic deviations and changes within the projected budget of the Republic of Serbia and there is nothing more logical than to start from January 1st next year. However, the first position suggests that the government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to settle all commitments due by 31 December 2011, based on transfers to local self-government units. That's what stings. What's he doing here? There is the core problem of the local self-government unit in terms of funding. The problem has arisen because for three years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has failed to respect and implement the law on the financing of local self-government. It's okay that he doesn't respect the law, but also the evidence of the non-compliance of the law says every year in his budget. There are tangible traces of violations of regulations. Every rule when a breach is caused by a sanction and causes some kind of responsibility. If we go over this fact that we don't need to impose sanctions or get some responsibility, then the most important thing is to get everything back to the former state of affairs from the point of view of the funding unit of local self-government. The most natural thing is to get strength and resources to settle obligations to the local self-government unit because that's where the meter works. They took the loans. You heard just before that information how much each unit of local self-government is in charge. She's not exactly able to provide that much self-supply. Secondly, you're very hopeful of the Public Property Act or as you say about the return of property to units of local self-government. God forbid it happens in Serbia. That if it had happened in Serbia, so let's say Gordana Comic were president or mayor of Novi Sad, she would have sold it. Some would sell hills. Some people would sell the markets. You can see for yourself that Greece has started selling islands, and the Austrians are selling mountain peaks. There must be some kind of control because a local self-government unit can only have some powers in exercising property rights and that in terms of use and management, but not at all available. Who dares to give the irresponsible local government the right to dispose? Well, they're gonna sell the streets, they're gonna sell the squares. They'll sell halls, sell everything and everything, everything that generations and generations have created, like it did with privatisation. Such will be privatization in local self-governments as "Sartid" went to the Buddha for why. That way, the Buddha Square can go, and then you wait for someone from the EU to warn you about something that needs to be reconsidered after 12 years, because you can't possibly go to them. You can go to them any way you want, but they won't, they know you very well. I honor this time, that this law will come into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56721	Thank you, two minutes isn't short. I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. He is still at his disposal two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Oedipus of the Sheriffs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this member is interesting and essentially shows the right intentions of the promoter and points out that this false conflict and disagreement between DS and G17 plus does not actually exist, because the date since 1 September 2011 is the moment when local elections are announced at the end of this year. We come to a logical conclusion that this law is in the function of these local elections, because it will begin to apply in September of the month. With local self-government, a good portion of the revenue will already be transferred in some way, although we do not have budget rebalance, although we do not have some way of revising the projects designed by this budget. As far as SNS is concerned, it seems to me that in this whole story about this law, all the actors were not honest and the fact is that there is a serious agreement between DS and G17 plus when it comes to this law, and that all that went on in the media, that this is just an empty story and a dizziness and cheap marketing that actually wants to cover up the essence of the relationship between G17 and DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56723	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56724	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the few fellow ladies and gentlemen MPs, there is no conflict between DS and G17 plus. We have consciously applied this law, or made it our intention to apply this law from September 1st. Anyone planning to go to local elections in October, November and December, but not in Serbia. We do not intend or need local elections to be held before the regular term. Anyone who is impatient to come to power will have to train their impatience for the next 20 years because impatience has done no good to anyone. On the other hand, there are regular parliamentary and regular local elections ahead of the country. This isn't a campaign, this is a law that aims to reform this society. This is not a campaign, as some think, that someone crosses the censorship or realizes I don't know what political benefit, this law aims to actually implement the congregation reforms that this society needs, and what relations between coalition partners are, it doesn't need to worry anyone. They are who they are, and what they will be, it doesn't need to worry about the opposition again, because I understand the anxiety of some people in the opposition, it's the hardest thing in the opposition for the first 25 years, and then it gets used to it, but there's plenty of time until the election. So it would be better to change the campaign for those who are running to win the election, try to conduct the campaign to start or start the campaign right now. I assure them from this place not to fantasize that the election will be before the regular deadline, because elections will be when the law prescribes it, and DS, along with its coalition partners, wants to show that stability is possible in this country, despite some differences and considerations, because stability is what needs this country and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-21-0.u56725	It was used two minutes and 12 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Do any of the MPs who have the Rules of Procedure have time at their disposal want a word, since this is the last amendment in the debate in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general on the day of the vote. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Monday, June 27th 2011, starting at 10.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the single agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we end the working day of June 21st. Since the last hour of our work has been delayed since 23.40 hours, now, as they watch us, it's past midnight, the 22nd day of summer long-term, I congratulate you on the arrival of the summer. Thank you.
