ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-28-0.u59058	The ninth extraordinary session of July 28, 2011 (Second Work Day) (The session began at 12.05 hours. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-28-0.u59059	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 104 MPs. To accurately determine the number of Members present in the room, please insert the cards into the electronic system units. There's 127 of us at this point. I find there are conditions for work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Mladen Grujic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the only item on the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We are deciding on a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the President and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia on the election and wish them much success in their work. The National Assembly, honourable Members of the People, has conducted an examination of the only item on the agenda of this session and its decision on it. Consistent with Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Thank you for your work. I suggest we take a little rest and rest and return to work in late August, or early September.
