ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62554	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've asked the Minister of Health a few more questions on May 22nd, which I haven't received any answers to so far. It is an outpatient maternity facility which was closed for hygienic reasons in 1988, and for 23 years, unsuccessful attempts to reopen it. More serious approaches have started lately in solving this problem. I think the intention is there, but not an adequate method or path found. In fact, instead of making an annex object, an additional facility within the already two existing DZ facilities in Presevo, a reconstruction of already existing one of the two facilities, in which primary health care has been organised for at least the last 30 years. Now that one of the facilities is planning to redesign a rather expensive reconstruction at an outpatient maternity facility, there is a danger of jeopardizing the already existing primary protection in this home of health. So I also formulated these questions, which I repeat - did the Ministry of Health take adequate measures to prevent illegal investment activities that are contrary to health play-dealing rules, and where is the re-purpose of business content in the new DZ Presevo facility, and what is the information you are familiar with through the information provided to the Ministry by the dispensary chief for pre-school and school children, which is three or four days after the delivery of information to the Ministry that has been removed from that function? What crucial reasons have been overcome in determining that the space for the outpatient family is refurbished and provides a complete reconstruction of the old house of health, and has been renovated by the Ministry three years ago, and that has been functioning for more than 40 years for general practice and as a gynaecological and obstetric dispensary, rather than a new maternity annex? The third question is: did the Ministry of Health, in the definition of reconstruction of the old establishment of the House of Health for maternity purposes, make up the necessary analysis from which it would be seen, that by reducing health activities from two existing facilities to only one facility, is this leading to a more significant threat to the normal functioning of the House of Health and that there is a risk of limiting the further development of primary health care in this municipality? This solution prevents the opening of other specialist services that are missing from this home of health, not to mention the legal possibility that Presevo has a stationary for internal diseases. I'd remind him in a wider region, in Montenegro. Ten years ago, the president of the municipality of Ulcinj, launched the procedure of the outpatient maternity ward, and Montenegrin authorities there over the course of one year solved the problem. Over two decades here, you've been waiting for one elemental right in the framework of health care. I'd like to remind you that in far smaller areas with 2,000 inhabitants, take only the village of Pasjana near Gjilan, the birthplace and the stationary is built. It will be completed in the course of the year and will start these important functions of healthcare. (President: five minutes. What makes these things happen to us? That's why I've asked these questions to the Minister of Health, but so far I haven't received any answers. I expect this sensitive issue will be devoted to a far more serious approach, in order to finally solve this decades-old problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62555	Six minutes, MP. (Risa Halimi: Why didn't you warn me? I thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62556	Dear fellow Members of the people and respected citizens of Serbia, allow me to, before I ask a question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, congratulate all citizens today who are celebrating the Holy Friday, and I am doing so for the reason that I know that this is a very common celebration just on KIM and I especially congratulate all of our Serbs who are celebrating the Council of Friday today. Of course, I'm going to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, but I'm going to do it at the end of my presentation and it's about KIM. All issues and all discussions on KIM are due to the irresponsible signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the 2008 campaign. I would like to remind Serbian citizens that in 2008, in this very year, Vojislav Kostunica returned his mandate to Serbian citizens, because at that moment it became clear that we do not have a single policy towards KIM. At that time, the ruling coalition promised both Europe and European integration, both Kosovo and Metohija. We are now facing the devastating consequences of such a policy and we are actually witnessing that this policy is experiencing its flood in all its segments. What the government of the Republic of Serbia has done over the past four years is accept the Eulex mission without the Assembly's consent. She was given that consent after the Resolution, but at the moment she allowed it, she did not have the consent of the assembly, and it is clear that the Eulexa mission has the mandate to establish the institutions of an independent state of Kosovo. That's what this government did. Secondly, the government started talks, following a recommendation from the EU, with Pristina, on issues of vital importance, and the government concluded a series of agreements. I will remind you, the Freedom of Movement Agreement, the Return of Parent Books Agreement, which, as a consequence, has a direct consequence, now that Serbs are faced with pressures to accept Kosovo's license plates, Kosovo documents, therefore, ID card, registration license, driver's license, which, of course, Serbs do not want. The government and the cabinet of President Boris Tadic have also concluded an agreement on customs stamps, naively believing and without any guarantee that EULEX, but also that false Kosovo government, will not interpret it as a fact that they gain the right and bring customs and Kosovo police to the border. That's why we now have this difficult situation on KIM. This government has given in under blackmail and pressure. The most eloquent was the German Chancellor, Mrs Angela Merkel, who beat Serbia with such a slap that we haven't received in decades, and from a number of officials and the EU, but also from the EU's most significant countries, such as the UK, we see that these pressures continue to exist. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Office of the President of the Republic, argues that it will not withdraw the Serbian institutions, the institutions of this country from KIM, but in fact the real issue, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I expect the government to respond within 15 days. The real question is this. At the moment when the state of Serbia calls parliamentary elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also the elections, which I particularly stress, for the authorities of local self-government, will the government mean that these elections, both parliamentary and local self-government elections, will also be held at KIM? That answer depends on a lot of things. Then we will finally see that this government is on its way without returning to the process of crawling recognition of KIM independence, and I believe that just then, when elections are called, the people, the citizens, in accordance with their morale that we still, as a people, own, this government, and above all DS and President Boris Tadic, will say goodbye.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62557	The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62558	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac about the events that took place on September 27th, which they seem to have forgotten, when NATO soldiers and soldiers of the United States shot unarmed Serb people at KIM, when there was a large number of injured and when real happiness and real wonder that the US military did not kill any Serbian citizens. What does Prime Minister Cvetkovic do to prevent such events and such a scenario for the future? When did the Government of the Republic of Serbia stop providing logistical support to the US-NATO Pact in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? I remind you that Cvetkovic and Tadic provide logistical support to just those soldiers who shot at the Serb people at Krstovdan this year. Here's some evidence for that, gentlemen. In 2006 Tadic signed an agreement with the US Army, and the ruling majority of the DS headed in 2009 voted in favour of the agreement. It is a SOFA agreement or agreement concerning the protection of status and access and use of military infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, the US Army. The agreement is extremely devastating in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. It allows the US military to move freely across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to enter into the territory of the Republic of Serbia whatever it wants, without any control, because, under Article 7(2), aircraft, vehicles and U.S. vessels are excluded from the inspection process. Also in Article 9 of the SOFA agreement, it gives US soldiers the opportunity to kill in the territory of Serbia citizens of the Republic of Serbia without being held accountable. Even the Republic of Serbia undertakes to give up any compensation for the consequences of the US military's operation in the Republic of Serbia. So, this agreement gives the U.S. Army, as well as the private companies involved, permission to kill in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. However, this agreement can be cancelled. It's 180 days from the receipt of a written notice of intent to cancel. So, a direct question to Mr. Cvetkovic and Defence Minister Sutanovac – when will they cancel the SOFA agreement through which they provide logistical support to NATO troops and US military troops in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which, as we have seen, is shooting at unarmed Serbia at KIM, as it happened on September 27th at Krstovdan and why has the agreement not already been cancelled? The second issue of defence to Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, he answered about an unexploded bomb located in the Star Forest in Belgrade, NATO bombs from 1999, that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not provide funds to demining the bomb, that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not have 250 000 euros to reconnaissance that territory and demining the bomb, although there are Russians who are there every day and who deal with mine-mining affairs. They simply don't want to protect the citizens of Belgrade, the citizens of Zvezda, and that 1,000-pound bomb, which can kill hundreds of people, is being disarmed. Is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot single out those funds, when we know that EU advisers in Serbia earn up to 800 euros daily, which is really amazing? Secondly, when will this NATO pact, when will the United States of America to which you are being courted, send you finally a list of the funds used in NATO aggression and where are they all thrown, so that they can be disarmed? So I ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Minister Sutanovac to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62559	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word, to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? (No) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, MP Zoran Bortic, Petar Petrovic and Zika Gojkovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at this session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister and Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, called for the members to attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice; Tanja Miscevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence; Goran Tokic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Justice; Colonel Predrag Kraljic, Head of the International Military Co-operation Administration in the Ministry of Defence and Dragan Radulovic, Secretary of the Defence Ministry. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search of 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 of the agenda, i.e. a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on extradition; a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters; a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the area of defence; a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on co-operation in the area of defence. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on proposals for the agenda of items 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the individual parliamentary group, and so that the MP group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, under which they apply for the word and order of MPs who wish to take part in the debate, shall be accepted until the opening of the principle, common principle or common uniform search of the agenda. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Sasa Dujovic, the SPS parliamentary group – JS and MP Dusan Maric, the SRS parliamentary group. If another parliamentary group decides to give authority to one of its members to represent it during the search, jointly and uniquely, please inform us that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Extradition; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Defence Agreement; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Co-operation in the area of defence. I ask if the words of the promoter, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, want to speak? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62560	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I will try to give you an introductory explanation on the law and agreement of which today's confirmation is on the agenda. As regards the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia has not been regulated by a bilateral agreement, which has created certain problems in legal co-operation between the two countries so far. The two countries' justice ministers signed the text of that contract on 15 April 2011. This Treaty will provide for a more extensive and diverse legal co-operation between the two countries, both in civil and legal areas, as well as more effective legal co-operation. The Treaty will also create opportunities for greater legal protection, both natural and legal persons on the territory of another Contracting State, and will also allow for certain types of legal assistance and direct legal co-operation between judicial authorities. The contract regulates the delivery of letters and cases, exchange of rules notices, the taking of certain procedural actions, the release from payment of the costs of the court proceedings, the evidence force of public documents, the matters of legacy, the issues of criminal action, the application of special measures of legal assistance in criminal proceedings, the delivery of reports from criminal records, and the violation and taking of criminal proceedings of the accused persons. The conclusion of that contract with the Republic of Slovenia and similar contracts with countries in the region and beyond will, in particular, allow for co-operation on the detection, prosecution and punishment of perpetrators of the most serious crimes, such as the works of organised crime. As for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Extradition, between the two countries the extradition of defendants and convicted persons has also not been regulated by a bilateral agreement, which has created some problems in co-operation so far. The text of these extradition contracts was also signed on 15 April. That contract detailed the issues of extradition of accused and convicted persons, which will create more mandatory forms of co-operation in this area between the two countries. The contract provides for criminal acts which are allowed to be issued, such as criminal acts for which a sentence of one year is prescribed, or if it is imposed, that it should be at least four months, provides for reasons for refusing extradition, such as that the person whose extradition is requested is not a citizen of the requested country, regulates the procedure for simplified extradition when the person agrees with extradition, as well as other issues of importance for the functioning of this international legal institute. The conclusion of that contract will allow for more effective delivery of accused and convicted persons between the two countries. The conclusion of that contract with the Republic of Slovenia, as well as similar contracts with countries in the region, will in particular allow for co-operation on the detection, prosecution and punishment of perpetrators of the most serious crimes. I'll give you a case you know. For example, the case of Dragan Paravinja, who in the Republic of Croatia is charged with serious murder. He is being prosecuted in BiH, of which the Republic of Serbia has also requested his extradition in order to carry out a four-year and six-month sentence for the rape. This is exactly the kind of cases that point to all the need to conclude contracts with both the Republic of Slovenia and other countries, because this is the only way we give legal co-operation to judicial authorities and prevent the possibility that perpetrators of criminal acts avoid prosecution and continue to act uninterruptedly. As regards the Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Co-operation in the area of defence, the very agreements whose confirmation is proposed by this law in its character are general, standard international agreements which, without direct or direct acceptance of obligations, provide the basis for future bilateral co-operation in the area of defence. These agreements also define procedures and general principles of co-operation, namely equality, reciprocity, and common interests with respect to the rules and principles of international law, i.e. national laws of Serbia, Croatia, Hungary and Nigeria. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the proposed laws is contained in Article 99(1) point 4 and in relation to Article 97 point 1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation of their confirmation, namely that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for international position and relations with other countries. The proposed laws are in line with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, as well as the Vienna Convention on Contract Law. Also, given that their enforcement does not require a change in the positive legal framework, nor is there a need for new rules, the draft laws are fully in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the proposed laws of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Croatia, Hungary and the Federal Republic of Nigeria give powers to the competent authorities, their defence ministries, to directly conclude contracts and thereby directly specify co-operation in individual segments in defence areas. In this context, agreements represent a legal framework for exchange of experiences in mutually interesting areas, with the aim of achieving a higher level of active participation in the common security and defence policy, as well as multinational operations. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on defence co-operation was signed in Zagreb on 8 June 2010 in the original Serbian and Croatian languages. So far, co-operation in the area of defence with the Republic of Croatia is relatively intense, with room for further promotion. As part of the foreign-political orientation of the Republic of Serbia, which recognises the exceptional importance of developing good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation, the Ministry of Defence actively participates in regional initiatives, bilateral and multilateral activities, such as staff training at regional centres and military exercises, which contributes to building trust and intensifying co-operation with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. The number of planned and implemented activities at the annual level as part of bilateral military co-operation with Croatia is on the rise, and the focus and co-operation is on the following areas: getting to know the experiences of the Republic of Croatia during the UN, EU and NATO missions, exchange of experience in transforming and training of soldiers on voluntary military service, as well as co-operation in the field of telecommunications, IT support and logistics. In this context, the agreement is a legal framework for exchanging experiences in those areas, also opening up the possibility of realising joint military exercises and training and intensifying military-economic, military-technical, military-medical and military-educated co-operation. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on defence co-operation was signed in Belgrade on 22 March 2010 in the original language in Serbian, Hungarian and English. The signing of a co-operation agreement in the area of defence between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary created a normative and legal basis for improving co-operation in the area of defence. This confirms our interest and willingness to co-operate with the neighbours in terms of common face-to-face with modern and regional and global security challenges, risks and threats. The agreement is a legal framework for exchange of experiences in the area of defence reform, participation in multinational operations, also opens the possibility of realising joint military exercises and training, intensifying military-economic, military-technical, military-medical and military-educated co-operation. Bilateral co-operation in the area of defence with Hungary has been developed and difficult to take place through joint engagement in peacekeeping missions, joint military exercises, exchange of experiences, with participation in the programme and participation of Hungary in NATO and the transfer of experience from the process of transition and reform of the defence system. Since 2002, more than 200 members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army have participated in various forms of training in Hungary. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the SR Nigerian government signed a defence co-operation agreement in Belgrade on 7 March 2011, whose confirmation is proposed by this law. The Republic of Serbia and SR Nigeria have traditionally had good relations established at the diplomatic level since 1960, which are marked by numerous high-level meetings. Economic relations between the two countries stagnated over the period until the 1990s, so there are conditions for the development and intensifying of the two countries' co-operation. This specifically concerns co-operation between the two defence ministries in the area of education and military-economic areas. We are particularly interested in establishing a link, which would establish defence capacities and Serbia's industry and create opportunities for other economic operators and Serbia to enter the Nigerian market. In addition to combat-economic co-operation, we are able to realise all forms of military-educated and military-medical training at the University of Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting the proposed laws, another step would be taken to develop and improve co-operation between the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Hungary and the SR Nigeria. The justification for the adoption of proposed laws, i.e. the confirmation of agreements with these defence governments, is in line with the provisions of the Republic of Serbia to further improve regional co-operation based on values on which a single European, social, cultural and economic space rests, as well as efforts to address security problems in the region. The need to confirm an agreement with the Government of SR Nigeria is seen in numerous possibilities for the launch of military-economic co-operation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62561	Do the representatives of the committees want the word, MP Bosko Ristic, the Committee on Justice and Administration? No, I don't. National MP Dusan Bajatovic, chairman of the Defence and Security Committee? No, I don't. MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. In that case, I ask if the President, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. Yes, MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62562	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is in front of us three agreements, two contracts, all signed long ago and deep in the realization and in the concreteisation of the procedures provided for in these agreements, so that some big story about this would not give full effect, as it would have been if we had received all of this before the signing, the last five, six months, or when any agreement or contract was signed. As things stand, I would like to refer to only one agreement, the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the area of defence. Several of the things written here are clear, precise and likely to lead to the once-deeply-warned parties taking part in peacekeeping missions, both under the auspices of European security forces and under the auspices of the UN. It is not necessary to disrupt the fact that Croatia is already a large member of the NATO Pact and, as a NATO member of the KFOR mission, in the currently administratively occupied KIM territory or under the UN protectorate, is carrying out certain activities, which are foreseen for the KFOR mission tasks. One of the things that we have witnessed in the past month, that Croatian helicopters have been passing Albanian customs officers on Jarinj and Brnjak, which is probably the mission of KFOR and perhaps should not be resented by Croatian helicopters and pilots, but simply represents a question of fresh wounds and all that we have recently had through some kind of co-operation. In Article 1 of this Agreement, this is what I would like to focus on, it is said: "Co-operation agreed on by this Agreement is based on the principles of mutual respect and equality and is implemented in accordance with national law of the states of the parties, as well as the rules and principles of international law. "It's all well written and it should probably be so, that in the last month we haven't had one paradoxical situation that sets us up and this as an example for the future period, whether this particular member will be respected. In fact, in the past few years, we have taken over, by the Croatian state, convicted of alleged war crimes, for crimes committed during the war. Some of these people, our fellow citizens, and today they suffer punishment by respecting Croatia's legislation, we respected their verdicts that these people committed war crimes or committed a crime during the war, whatever. These people today in Sremska Mitrovica or in Požarevec support the punishment imposed by the Republic of Croatia. Then, as a state, that is, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, we have passed on to the Republic of Croatia a set of procedural cases with clear evidence that certain people have committed terrible crimes during the war when it comes to members of our people. We got a slap again in return, we got a bill in the House to screw up everything we delivered. The question is, why do we need such agreements? To meet the rule of diplomacy standard to observe and say in this direction – we will be in peace missions with Croatia someday? All right, if that's the way it's supposed to be, and if that's what international standards require and everything that's signed by international diplomacy, all right, let's do that, it's really a question of how long are we going to put up with everything that's being asked of us in this way? Of course, we as a parliamentary group will also support these five draft laws, including this proposal for an agreement, because it was simply signed about five months ago and there is no room for any particular question. Again I ask the question – how long are we going to tolerate all this? In the area of co-operation and in the forms of co-operation, the points that define, I quote: "Other areas of common interest agreed between the parties or the competent authorities". What can we do with them, that's all a question. Treatment of classified information, I quote, "No party will provide any third party with classified information exchanged during the implementation of this Agreement without the written consent of the other party". This agreement will certainly not apply to the Republic of Croatia or be more important than the agreements they signed when they became a NATO member. The question is how much of our data we can share with them can be relevant in the situation when, again, I return to the beginning, which is that Croatia participates in the KFOR mission and in one visible and significant way contributes instability in the north of our AP KIM. To conclude, indeed, a thing that we shouldn't even be talking about, but as someone who had to draw attention to the public and our state authorities, and also to the Ministry of Justice, and to appeal to the treatment of all diplomatic channels to try to find a way to undo that indifference, because really by making agreements in this way, by carrying out everything that is asked of us by the signatories of the agreement, in this case the Republic of Croatia, we are putting ourselves in one position to adopt certain things in front of citizens like us, by adopting such agreements, and others are laughing at us and simply nothing that you as the Ministry of Justice and Prosecution have made a fantastic shift of evidence, using all the relevant facts collected on the ground by the security services, the former JNA army, after that all of our unhappy armies, to prove that Merček and the rest of simple criminals, and all of all of them. All in all, the SPS – JS and I personally, as a representative of the Veterans Movement, will support all five proposals and in the voting day we will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62563	Seven minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? MP Dusan Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, October 21st in Kragujevac marks an anniversary of the shooting of 2,700 Serb students and civilians. On the same day in Zagreb, the Croatian Parliament decided that Croatian war criminals who participated in the killing of Serb civilians could not be held accountable for their crimes. Neither this decision nor the date of its adoption are random, they are the continuation of Croatia's state policy, which has committed two serious crimes against the Serb people in the last 70 years, genocide in World War II and extended genocide in the 1991 to 1995 war. Just five days after the parliament in Zagreb made this shameful and offensive decision, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that we, in the centre of Belgrade, adopt a law on co-operation with Croatia, imagine, in the area of defence. We in the SRS see this bill as an insult to every national conscious Serb, and we believe that the adoption of this law will be a great moral capitulation, a great national humiliation. We are in favour of SRS for good relations with all states and with all nations, but, as counterpart Dujovic pointed out, the conclusion of a co-operation agreement with Croatia at this time, after all, is out of mind. I will state the reasons why the SRS MPs will vote against this law. In the Second Serbian War, the Croatian state killed more than a million Serbs in BiH, Croatia and Serbia. In Jasenovac alone, 700 thousand, including 40,000 children. Only 20 years ago, Croatia again committed a mass crime against the Serb people. I remind you that the Croatian military and police, their military and paramilitary information in Croatia, have killed more than 7,500 Serb soldiers and civilians, and in BiH about 3,000. Of these crimes, 16 years have passed, and only 8,000 captured and murdered Serb soldiers and civilians have been buried. More than 2,000 of these unfortunate people have not yet been buried because Croatia is hiding their remains. Where graves are known, and about 600 tombs, groups and individuals, Croatia refuses to allow their exhumation. Now I ask a moral question – is it normal for the Serbian state to sign a defence co-operation agreement with a state that hides the remains of Serb soldiers and refuses to return them to their families to bury these families according to their customs in their cemeteries? Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic and other Serbian officials have repeatedly apologized for the crimes that Serbs committed against Croats, but no one has ever heard of a single word of apology for crimes coming from Zagreb, much harder and much more massively, which the Croats have committed over the Serb people. On the contrary, we are witnessing that Jadranka Kosor publicly repeats that those who allegedly defended Croatia cannot be war criminals because they are state-run Croatian national heroes. In the last two decades alone, Croatia with which we are signing an agreement on co-operation in the area of defence has twice sparked wars against the Serb people. At least 10,500 people have been killed in these wars since the Croatian war, the largest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II has been committed. After all, after a crime against peace, Croatia brought suit against Serbia for aggression and genocide to the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg. I repeat that Croatia has done the largest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II. In previous days, I was saying that more than 300 thousand people were expelled from Zagreb and other Croatian cities, and then another 200 thousand were from Krajina in 1995. You know what's amazing when you look at it in some historical context. So, what no one has ever done, neither the French Republic nor the Milky Way, nor the Austro-Hungarian, nor the Krajina, nor Napoleon, the Turks, make the Republic of the Serbian Krajina, or the Serbian Krajina completely clear of the Serbian population. This is what Croatia so-called today did. Democratic Croatia, of which you forcefully want to make friends of the Serb people, friends of the Republic of Serbia and make agreements with them, including an agreement on co-operation in the area of defence. I remind you that the Croatian state that is under occupation holds the Republika Srpska Krajina, and I also remind you of Vance's plan and Resolution 741 of the UN Security Council, that Republika Srpska Krajina is a UN-protected zone. I would also like to remind you that the Republic of Serbia is a signator of the agreement, and I remind you that Serbia is guaranteed the existence of Republika Srpska. Under international law, the formal legal republic of the Serbian province exists today. I draw attention to the fact that the UN Security Council has never out of line with any new resolution put Resolution 741 into effect. Instead of every day, the government in Belgrade literally screams at the UN, in front of the international public, and asks what is wrong with the area that is under your protection, when you will release it. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that we and the state holding the Serbian area under occupation sign an agreement on co-operation in the area of defence. I remind you that as Thanksgiving, Croatia celebrates the anniversary of the storm. At least 2,000 Serbs were killed in the action, and more than 200,000 were expelled from Croatia. It's Thanksgiving for the flash action. For 283 Serbian civilians killed in western Slavonia, for those tanks that trampled tractors with Serbian refugees there on the road between Okucan and Nova Gradiška. Thanksgiving for 183 Serbian villages in Western Slavonia that no longer exist. Thanksgiving for 80,000 people, residents of these villages, who were soullessly expelled through the Sava into Republika Srpska and Serbia. Croatia is a state that openly defends the results of its war crimes and the results of ethnic cleansing. Where will you get more evidence than this? Of the 500,000 expelled people, 16 years after the end of the war, 45,000 returned to Croatia. So, not every tenth. The other day I warned of the fact that we have a massive phenomenon that Serbian children, at the address of their parents, are afraid to attend Roman Catholic religious studies in schools. In the paper, you had several examples of the crossover of Serbian children in Croatia. I also remind you that this Croatia, with which we need to establish co-operation in the area of defence, has taken away property estimated at 30 billion euros. Among other things, it's 40,000 apartments. I ask one question -- what if Serbia applied diplomatic practice, God forbid, to approach the issue of Croats in Belgrade and Novi Sad in the same way, to move 50,000 people out of Belgrade and Novi Sad? You know what would happen? By December when you expect those from Brussels to report that in 2839 they will accept us as their colony, Belgrade would be bombed by that day. I remind you that in Croatia monuments Jovi Francetic and Mili Budaku slaughterer from Jasenovac are publicly erected. Every year in Croatia there is a big rally, the biggest cultural music event, which is the Ustaški Dernek concert, as they call it there in Chavoglava, held by Marko Perkovic Thompson. Croatia refuses to return 600,000 hectares of land to Serbs. He refuses to return 10,000 vineyards with more than a million chocolate vines. He refuses to return 320,000 acres of orac. He refuses to return 120,000 acres of forest, over 400,000 tractors and other connected machines and over 900,000 head of big cattle. Also, I warn you that you sign a defence co-operation agreement with a state that is the biggest arms smuggler in the world's newest history. You know that Croatia imported over 200 Kalashnikovs in 1991, but did not import them to defend themselves, to defend peace and stability in the former Yugoslavia, rather than to challenge a series of wars, to achieve the goals of the criminal policy of the independent state of Croatia and Ante Pavelic. I remind you that 120,000 Serbs, Muslims and Croats were killed in those wars, and over 550,000 people were wounded. Croatia's prime minister publicly declares that Croats who committed a crime against Serbs cannot be criminals because they are Croatian national heroes, and as a confirmation by the Croatian state on the night between October 10th and 11th, at the fortress in Knin, organizes a 54th birthday celebration, war criminal Ante Gotovina. And now you are asking us to sign a defence co-operation agreement with that and such Croatia and vote in favour of the agreement. I'll use the other ten minutes in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62565	Eleven minutes used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other authorised representatives and presidents of the authorised groups come forward to use their right in this part of the session? If I may, please sign up. Since there are no reports, I would like to inform you that according to Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint single search of the application in writing, and with the order of the MPs, that the MP group of the SRS has submitted, and I give my word to the MP Ljubisa Petkovic, after him, the MP of the People Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to say a few words about this agreement to express my protest and regret that today, under these laws and agreements, the defence minister, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, is not present. These are not exactly questions for the minister of justice, but solely for the minister of defense. The defence co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia by Defence Minister Mr Sutanovac in Zagreb on 8 June 2010, has been the greatest act of issuing the Serbian national interests of this pro-Western and ethnic government since 2000. With this agreement, the government of the Republic of Serbia humiliated all the generals, all the officers and officers, all the soldiers from the regular and reserve composition of the former JNA, all the volunteers, all the participants of the war that took place from 1991 to 1995, who fought against the Ustasha regime in Croatia and who defended their lives, defended the lives of their closest and prevented genocide against the Serb people. Instead of signing an agreement on the return of property to Serbs worth more than 30 billion euros, the government, instead of signing an agreement on the return of their property, instead of signing an agreement on the right to pension and other rights that, according to the UN Charter, this private government is putting a knife in their backs and letting them know that their defence against genocide was a mistake and that it will not help them in the future. Let's take a look at what this agreement represents. Article 3 in the area of co-operation as a subtitle is said: "Co-operation under this agreement will be achieved in the following areas". Here you have about nine points, I apologize, for starters I would refer to this first point that says: Security policy and defence planning. Now I ask you, what kind of defence planning can we talk about together with Croatia when it is very well known, that throughout history Serbian soldiers and Croatians have never been in the same trenches or fought on the same side. In World War I, they were in the Austro-Hungarian Army, in World War II 1941, the Hitler army welcomed flowers and immediately declared the Ustasha independent state of Croatia, led by Ante Pavelic, with the blessing of Cardinal Alojz Stepinac and the support and assistance of the Vatican. The truth is, there are a number of Croats who haven't bled their hands, but that part of the Croatian people is negligible, but there was, and they were under the attack of Ustasha terror. A multi-annual policy in Croatia has left terrible consequences for the biological survival of the Serb people in Republika Srpska and parts of BiH covered by the Ustasha state in 1941. During that period, as in the last war, civilians, innocent people, women, children and old people were mostly killed, and only because they were Serbs of Orthodox religion. They were thrown into caves and ended up in camps. What co-operation with Croatia could we talk about if it is very well known that in the 1980s Zagreb was the center of the separatist rebellion on KIM? Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor as a follow-up to Pavelic and Tudjman's Ustasha policy and today, apart from verbal support, gives military assistance to the Shiparian separatists at KIM. Madam Minister, you know this and you sign this agreement with Croatia? Let me remind you, "Croatian Morning List" published a statement by Minister Sutanovac -- I highly appreciate the role of the Croatian army in Kosovo. I have a text. I can let you guys check the credibility of what I said later. Please, in point six, it's called a peace support operation. Madam Minister or someone from the Serbian Government, tell us what peace operations Croatia is in. There's no one. The Serbian public says 450 Croatian soldiers are in Afghanistan under the flag of the NATO Pact. It is said that this agreement would be signed and accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or today in this Assembly. Does Mr. Defence Minister reflect on the security of Serbian soldiers who would be shoulder to shoulder with Croatian soldiers on any part of the field, especially if they were in an aggressive army? Article 7 of this Agreement provides for the exchange of classified information with the obligation not to transfer those data to a third party. This is the height of cynicism. Well, you don't think that Croatia as a member of the NATO Pact is going to share all this data that the Republic of Serbia would exchange with Croatia, whether it's military or other data, with Germany and with America? I also ask the minister if anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia can explain how it is possible for Serbia as a military neutral country to participate with the Croatian military in operations under the command of the NATO Pact criminal organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let's look back, see what he says and what this agreement provides. First of all, Croatia is a member of the NATO Pact. It is otherwise surrounded by countries in friendly relations and mainly those members of the NATO Pact, except for BiH, which may not yet be. Second of all, crow crows don't take their eyes out. Why would Croatia want such an agreement? Didn't someone from the Serbian government realize that he had caught himself and that he didn't think for a moment that this agreement would oblige the Serbian government to participate in the persecution of the Serb people from Republika Srpska if the Serb people in Republika Srpska eventually made any rebellion? Madam Minister, please answer my question why is this Government of the Republic of Serbia hiding the truth that the Serbian Army will wear Croatian uniforms? This is what you have on the Croatian website. I remind you, "Croatian Morning List" has announced that Serbian soldiers will be trained in uniforms and helmets that were made and designed by Croatian companies Kroko and "Sesten-Bush", and Mr. Defence Minister, Mr. Sutanovac absolutely agreed and said he would take the best offer, regardless of the country of origin. I'll get you that document. I see you're spinning your head, infidel, but you've got yourself on the site. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself know that Serbia's Army's best equipment was given by Mile Dragic from Zrenjanin back in 2005, and then someone thought to make an affair over the company that lasted a long time. What happened? The company was to be discredited, to drop out of a further race to equip Serbia's Army, a company that supplies many elite troops with military equipment for elite units outside the Republic of Serbia. This company had to be discredited. I also want to tell you that in 2009, the verdict confirmed that there are no crimes related to the company Mile Dragic. The state of Serbia was supposed to pay the company, if I recall, about 176m euros in compensation. Mile Dragic said - I don't need any compensation, I just want to implement the contract and work for the benefit of our country and our people. Madam Minister, why are you hiding the truth from the public that this agreement is not a fruit of work and co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Why are you hiding the truth that the creator of this law is America? I'll tell you what the Croatian press says about it. "Croatian National" announced that the United States has been working on this agreement since 2009 and that in August 2009 they organised a secret meeting of the commanders of Serbia's General Staff, Lieutenant General Milo Miletic with his Croatian counterpart, who was held in an apartment near Mali Losinj. Regarding the same agreement, US Defence Minister Sutanovac announced that Serbia now has strong co-operation with NATO since last year and adds that Minister Sutanovac said all military officers involved in crimes in Croatia can answer to Croatian authorities. Ladies and gentlemen of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to add in the end, I would not like to mention the issue of genocide and participation of the Croatian military in KIM, which is already being discussed by my colleague Maric, and others, I would like to read just one sentence I found in the text through Croatia in NATO published in the list "Pecat" on 16 June 2010. It is said that the Serbian government, more specifically its NATO wing, led by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, has accelerated on the orders of the US administration, makes all the necessary steps for the rapid accession of our country of NATO. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what agreement the anti-Serbian government signed with Croatia, the SRS will continue to assist the Serbian people until the end of the western borders of Greater Serbia, Karlovoga, Ogulin, Karlovac and Virovitica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62567	14 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62568	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will first begin the presentation on the proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the area of defence. Right away, let me say that this is the most ridiculous law I could read and what we as MPs could get. Why is he schizophrenic? Because it's a court dispute both on the one hand and on the other, both sides have accused each other of genocide, ethnic cleansing, the most serious crimes of genocide, and here we are now discussing and most will adopt this law and we will co-operate in the area of defence. How can you cooperate? How can they co-operate with countries that are twenty years ago, and the genocide on the Croatian side is still going on today, how can we co-operate in the area of defence, if we killed ourselves, if genocide is committed, if ethnic cleansing is done, etc.? Who's hypocritical? Where are the limits of hypocrisy in all this? Let's start in a row. The preamble to this agreement is the following: the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, having in mind the need to contribute to the strengthening of peace, stability and development between countries in Europe and the world in the spirit of the UN Charter, assessing positive integration processes in Europe, expressing a desire for mutually beneficial co-operation, based on mutual respect and trust. I'll stop there for a while. It's about useful co-operation, as you stated here, it's signed by the minister, based on mutual respect and trust. The same Croatia has recognised KIM among the first, regardless of the fact that an agreement on normalisation of relations is signed, which prohibits this type of communication between states, because one and the other countries have recognised each other within the borders, unfortunately, we have not addressed the issue of borders in Croatia today. And every single-sided determination of relations between these two states is forbidden. Unfortunately, it's unilateral. The Croats do what they want. They abuse these contracts, not only that Treaty on the Normalisation of Relations, but also later social insurance contracts, the Agreement on Succession, the Agreement on Extradition, the Agreement on Legal Assistance, etc. Where's the trust? How can a country that destroys each other, an agreement between states be treated as a good partner and we respect each other and we trust each other? How can we trust such a country? It's the state that committed genocide, which was also found by the government's countersuit. You have attached thousands of documents, facts, papers that have gone to the International Court of Justice, where you prove that genocide has been committed. The fact is that genocide was committed against Serbs from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia. Between 500 and 800,000 Serbs were expelled. All the property was taken away. All property and social rights were taken away from Serbs and not returned to this day. Where's the mutual respect? Justice Minister Mrs. Malovic said the following sentence – relations between the two countries are developing. How are they developing? Is that a development? Let's start with this mutual respect. Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor said openly a month ago – international agreements and bilateral agreements between Serbia and Croatia are not in favour of Croatia and we will not apply them. Look how the Croats do it. They spit on you, spit on everything you signed. They're doing the same thing with this agreement. They don't apply unilaterally, and we apply everything that's signed. They have recognised Kosovo. Why did the government not recognise the Republika Srpska Krajina the moment Kosovo was recognised? When the Prime Minister in Parliament says - we will not apply anything that is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the agreements signed, why don't we say the same here? We can't apply. The normalisation agreement said Serbs would return in a free and safe manner to the Republic of Croatia. 5% didn't even come back. There's no freedom, there's discrimination, there's all the bearers of genocide policy still in power today. How do the Serbs get back there? None of the essential elements of international law, relating to human rights and private property, have been returned to Serbs. The concession agreement provides for the return of all acquired rights, pension rights, the right of employment that Serbs have achieved in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. What's back? Nothing. Where are the actions of Croatian property belonging to Serbs? No action. Discrimination at every turn. And we are now entering good neighbourly relations just because it suits the Croats. Croatians must meet all the chapters envisaged in their path to the EU, including these elements related to defence with the countries of the region, with which we are bordering. We do everything Croatia wants. Why does this government not seek what belongs to us in human terms, which belongs to Serbs in Croatia, firstly, a safe free return? In Croatia, these are agreements that are valid, which are now part of international law, part of national law. Why don't you respect that? What about the human and acquired rights that have been taken away from people? One of the essential elements that you're all soul-sufficient about, but nothing seems to be returning is the issue of household rights. If civil rights are returned to Serbs in Slovenia, if they are returned to BiH, Macedonia, Montenegro, etc., why is this not the case with Croatia? Why don't you help the people who had that right? About 50,000 apartments in social property with tenant rights, which had Serbs, have not been returned. Why isn't he back? About three, four billion is the value of these apartments or the total value of the assets is thirty and more millions. If we add lost profits to this in the last twenty years due to mistreatment, due to the genocide policy of the Croatian state towards the Serbian people, it is fifty billion. We're talking about budget rebalances here, etc., with a few billion. Just give us back what's original. Mrs. Malovic, I must warn you once again, it is about this agreement, and that is the decision of the Croatian Parliament, for everything that happened during the period of war and the futility of the rules, and yesterday I said, by the system of reciprocity, if they said – it is not applicable to us, and the most tragic thing is that no one has opened those charges since 1991, but you sent them there. What did the Croats say? It doesn't oblige us, it's nothing, and they make that decision. There are no crimes for them. What's that? It's a non-civilization decision. The most tragic thing is that the EU, to which you swear, is silent. It's an even more tragic situation for you to keep your mouth shut about it. What would you now oppose the decision of the Croatian Parliament, because it is the highest state instance? The moment they create a system of reciprocity, you have to propose a decision, that is, the law here and that is the moment there is no more prosecution. You have delivered 44 items there, 1.549 which any case in the indictment of convicted exist on the Croatian side. You're working on it. You're thrilled to spend it, because the Serbs are criminals. You hate those Serbs. That's obvious. It's tragic from the aspect of a Serbian national being. You hate your own people. Among them, here, and your secretary of state said one example, that a Serb hit a horse, a horse was from a Croat, and was convicted of war crimes for hitting a Croat and he makes fun of it. He says, imagine, here's how it is. But he did nothing to remove this object, to say, we must release this man. He has to comply with some regulations. It's a common offense. But this man is responsible for a war crime like he slapped someone, like he killed someone. You know those examples. You know that 99% of these charges are generally political pamphlets of the Croatian state and Croatian judiciary. How many such items have you removed and how many Serbs have you freed in the agreement? Negotiations between the two prosecutors have been held since 2006. When you took over the portfolio, you were on several occasions with the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, etc., with a promise of review. Where's the audit? The Croats made it clear – no revision comes into consideration. For us all Serbs are war criminals. All those on the list are war criminals, as well as those who have been expelled, and they are war criminals. They can't come back. You see what kind of politics you're running. And how long can it go like that? How far does this cynicism of the Croatian state go? How long can you put up with that? But obviously you can handle a lot. But the people can't take it anymore. The Serbian people can't take it anymore, because it's an evil of their own authority over their own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62569	Eleven minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and after her, the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62570	Mrs. Malovic, at this time, today on St. Friday, while we are discussing this most embarrassing agreement between Serbian authorities and Minister Sutanovac with the Ustasha Croatian Army, Ustasha helicopters are transporting the Cypriot customs officers to places where our troubled people at barricades in Jarinj and Brnjak defends the century-old Serbian country. It is a good thing that the general, a PUPS colleague, entered the hall, General Arsenovic, as he witnessed it, that we were representatives of this parliament a few months ago, and that delegation was attended by counterpart Boris Aleksic and I, as well as a fellow general, learned from the Brigadier General of NATO who was the Ustasha leader and how he boasted, was the commander of all operations, so-called. The Croatian military in Sibenik and in the region of Dalmatia told us that Serbia and Croatia should co-operate, that it is good for NATO and that it is good for Serbia's future entry into NATO pact, which NATO Deputy Secretary-General Rasmussen, the foreign minister in Sanader's government, has now played such a high role in the criminal NATO pact. What are we to talk about next, when we are witnesses of such agreements, this, and the possibility of Serbia entering the NATO Pact, to which Ustasha in NATO openly invites us, all MPs from power, except me, fellow Alexic and the honourable gentleman general. We've had a shame and a shame there. We have experienced that a delegation of the Serbian Parliament to visit those villains whom my colleague Alexic and I, showing now the criminally murdered Colonel Gaddafi in the middle of the NATO Pact, said the murderers and that they had made the greatest atrocities in recent history. We experienced a lecture and a meeting being organised by a Ustasha general who killed so many Serbs. The Ustasha of Beastry and all that they have done over the centuries is best described in his book by our president, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, in a book that is now translated into English and called the "Roman Catholic Crime Project of an artificial Croatian Nation". I don't have time here today, that's part of what my colleague Maric mentioned, to talk about Ustasha atrocities during World War II. I can't even talk about how they participated and committed the most monstrous atrocities as hired by others, which was written by our president in that book during the beastly war between 1614 and 1648, between Catholics and Protestants. They surpassed the greatest executioners during the 15th century in the Inquisition in their atrocities and crimes. And in 1941, when they set out for the Serbian people, and when special forces of the Croatian MUP began on 31 March 1991, when they attacked the naked people on Plitvice Lakes. Mrs. Malovic, I will, therefore, remind you, so let's see if any of you are going to blush in this room, or Sutanovac who didn't come here today to defend this and he shouldn't have come, to be red and ashamed of the facts, and to some documents that I'm going to read, just to remind you, and I believe you know what Ustasha did from 1991 to 1995 Serbs. This tormented Serbian people, which was spoken of by counterpart Buha, who you probably know is the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, an internationally recognised Western Serb country, who is our colleague and who is sitting here, has gathered, as are all ministers from the government who are now acting in persecution, exile, they say, a huge building on how rights are threatened and that Serbs must not return to their centuries-old hearths. What, to go under the Ustasha knife again? He went to this unfortunate Vucic, whose role model Sanader set a few years ago and visited Kninska Krajina and when he tried to perform along with Nikolic's coup in the SRS, in some villages around Knin. It says, "How well does the people live here?" There, the old men are coming back and they're coming to help. There is no life there, Mrs. Malovic. No child living there can say it's Orthodox faith. You know very well that the same project that started America, Germany and the Vatican in 1991, to occupy Kordun, Banija, Dalmatia, Lika, Slavonia, the Western Serbian province has been synchronised by these key moments to provide the Shiptars with some sort of Shiptar state in the sovereign territory of our country. Why are we proud, and I believe most of the Serbian people, to fight for the western borders of Serbian countries on the line – Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica? Because the Serbian monasteries, just like the KiM, which is the cradle of Serbia, on the western line of Serbian countries, marked that border, where Serbs under impossible conditions, after World War II, under Broz's communist dictatorship, managed to rise and preserve Serbia in 1991, so that the beastly and male genocide, the Ustasha Croatian authorities, could again be expelled from their hearths. 'At the Miljevac plateau, in June 1992 there was an incredible crime and massacre by the Ustasha Croatian army and what they did there, about which there are numerous testimony of those who survived, and families who were murdered in such a way, something that human civilization and normal human mind cannot accept. Later, I will read a statement from a captured Serb soldier about how those with whom you sign the agreement today, harassed him, abused him as well as his friends, comrades and comrades. In Gospić in October 1991, only during one night, between 16th and 17th October 1991, members of the Ustasha army arrested 150 Serbs and took them in an unknown direction. Among them were 48 women, Mrs Malovic. Of that number, nine women were returned to the Serbian side of 26 charred bodies. To this day, the fate of the remaining faces is unknown, as Mr. Maric spoke of. You don't know their fate. They do not know their families where their corpses are, because they are not allowed, as he said, to several thousand Serb soldiers exhumed. Between 11 October 1991 and 29 March 1992, members of the Ustasha Armed Forces killed some 2,500 Serb nationalities in the Western Slavonia area. Mass liquidations were carried out in Marina Selo, Pakracko Poljana. This crime was committed by the military police Zenga Ustaša, and the directly responsible elders for this crime are Shirad Damir, the camp commander and chief of the Ustasha ZNG police unit and the Ribarska Koliba in Marina Selo and Tomislav Marchad, the commander of the special purpose unit, as they said, of the Croatian MUP. I can't, because I don't have any more time to tell you in detail about the atrocities on Miljevac plato, Ravni Kotari, in Milović Polje, in Medak's pocket, about the prisoners, about the dead, about the sufferings of their families, but, Mrs. Malovic, because it's primarily my obligation as members of the SRS and as Orthodox Serbian women to all of them and their families to pay tribute to heroism and to defend and to give life and killed by Ustasha villains in such a way, one message that reads: "Bless to them who know their heart to guard, to share Serbian glory with each new generation." We fight for such a Serbia and thus teach future generations – to defend the centuries-old Serbian countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62571	It's been used 10 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. After him, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62572	Mrs Malovic, I will say a few sentences about these contracts with Slovenia, to show at least a little bit that these contracts or that these relations with the Republic of Slovenia are not a bit idyllic and good as they wish to be shown by these contracts. In the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, you claim that these are the following reasons: firstly, the lack of a bilateral contract, secondly, you claim that relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia are very intense and thirdly, that they will be even stronger and even more intense after these contracts. The contract, as I recall, was signed on Brdo near Kranj in this year, April 15th, this year, in Serbian and Slovenian. However, I'd like to go back a little bit and remind ourselves of what is actually a gene of this contract and what was going on in one period before this. One of the first documents signed by the former SFRJ states is the document signed and called the Agreement on Excession Issues. The agreement was signed in Vienna, 2001, came into force in 2004, however, the agreement was not implemented at all. Until today, that agreement is not applicable. Let me remind you, Mrs Malovic, that Serbia, on this basis, is looking for around 700m euros on various grounds. Why isn't this agreement applied? The reasons are pretty banal. The first one is quite serious, and this is because the disputed property has already been seized by local tycoons, so there was no particular interest in solving this, and the second reason is really cheerful. Namely, the Agreement is concluded in English. I think you've had a chance to see this agreement that is, in some ways, preceding this contract today that we're talking about and the problem has arisen over this agreement because of an incorrect translation. You know those two English words: "ez of," so it's incorrectly interpreted whether it's contracts up to 31. 12. 1990s or 31st. 12. 1990s. This agreement, in fact, could not live because of this banal thing. I say again, it is property worth 700m euros, property sought by the Republic of Serbia. Then some guidance was given to implement this, but nothing was done on the basis of this instruction, except that some property was returned to the former republics. Afterwards, in 2007 and Bozidar Djelic, there was Gašo Knezevic, and you know where Bozidar Djelic was involved, there was nothing done and nothing was done about this, and the property of the Republic of Serbia in the former republics of the SFRY is the property of "Centrotekstila", "Utvi", "Jugobanke", "Geneksa", "NIS", "Jumka", "Betheksa", "PKB", "JAT", "EPS", etc. It's a huge property. Who, Madam Minister, will be responsible for all this property until today? Will former ministers be responsible since 2000, 2001, until today, former finance, trade and services ministers, will Mladjan Dinkic, Mirko Cvetkovic, Goran Pitic, Gašo Knezevic, Bozo Djelic, Aleksandar Vlahovic or Bojan Dimitrijevic be there, I don't know if I skipped anyone, who among them is responsible for all of this? The most honest thing would be to be all responsible, someone more, someone less involved in all of this, but they're all responsible. When it comes to legal aid in civil matters, you there predict more institutes relating to the citizens of both States of the Contracting States. You foresee the release from paying certain costs of court proceedings, predicting the provision of security, predicting the release from legalisation, the personal status papers, as well as the legacy. However, what is not being resolved in this contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia and what is not foreseen, Madam Ministers, is in fact personal, life, or existential problems that Serbs in the Republic of Slovenia have. That is why I said for a little while that these relations between Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia are absolutely not as idyllic, as can be concluded at first sight from these contracts or as you wish to show it. Namely, the basic problem in the Alliance of Serbian Diaspora in Slovenia is not the individual civil rights. The Serbian diaspora in Slovenia, Madam Minister, is the most unrecognized ethnic minority. I think it's clear to you, too, that you know that and in solving these problems, in solving the problems you've foreseen in this contract, there's really no solving these issues. (President: People's Parliament, I beg you on the subject of the agenda. So, the real diaspora can't be a topic of the agenda, I listen very carefully to you and I ask you about the subject of the agenda. Contracts are signed between the two countries by each state taking commitments to itself for its citizens and for the bilateral decisions they have in the contract. I'm asking you about the agenda. ) Instead of having previously negotiated some other statuses, you are talking about petitions, you are talking about personal documents, you are talking about beliefs, about property, you are talking about the acquisition of property and other rights, etc., and you are not solving any other existential problems that our citizens have and that our legal persons have in relations with the Republic of Slovenia and with their legal and physical persons. That's what's the lack of this contract of yours, and that's what was meant as some previous issue to solve, and then just bring these and these kind of contracts after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62573	Seven minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Krasic. MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62574	Mrs. Comic, time, if I may. (President: 24 minutes and 30 seconds are available. There are a lot of these suggestions that are in a unique search, so I'd like to take the lead. What I suppose the idea of the promoter was – as soon as these draft laws are adopted, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will immediately come to light. It'll feel better right away, a terrible improvement will happen, it just needs to ratify these agreements here, and we've solved everything. We have solved the problem of good neighbourly relations, because the EU does not want some new members, who have some unresolved relations. In order for these unresolved relations to be settled, these agreements, those concerning status, legal co-operation in civil and criminal matters, and especially those concerning defence, are needed. That's how we're offered different agreements. Today we have several and not counting Nigeria, all of these are in the NATO Pact. Just to remind you, the NATO Pact is kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. So, we need a light. I expected that when someone went to talk to the authorities in Slovenia the first thing they had to ask them was – did the Slovenian judiciary finally initiate any action against those people who committed war crimes in 1991 against recruits, soldiers at military service? Remember, these are the children that Ante Markovic sent to the border to cross over there. The kids went, they were carrying guns, but they didn't have any ammo. They were awaited by territorialists, commanded by Janez, not Janez Nikolic, but Janez Janša, and the chief spokesman to inform the world of the atrocities of JNA, which is committing aggression on its territory, was Jelko Kacin. I was hoping they might be uncomfortable when Jelko comes to Belgrade to ask him... (President: People's Parliament, please, on the subject of the agenda. So it's a contract between the Republic of Slovenia and Serbia on extradition and on legal aid and civil and criminal rights. So I'm asking you to bring what you started as an exposure to the content of both contracts. I'm talking about the law on extradition. (President: People's MP, I know what the contract says, so I wouldn't interrupt you if it wasn't necessary to stop breaking the Rules of Procedure. So I ask you to link what you want with what is content and the subject of both contracts, or the Law on Confirmation. ) Here, Mrs. Comic, only I read it a little better. Take Article 8. The extradition arrangements will not be granted. What's he saying? Slovenians won't deliver their citizen to anyone. Is that right? What? The Slovenians will not deliver their citizen to the Republic of Serbia. Then what are we talking about? We need cooperation to be delivered to our citizens. Right? In case our citizen Miroslav Miskovic opened his own company there, so he did not pay taxes to Serbia, but to his dear Slovenia, as he has now done with him dear Cyprus, would only inform us – there is an agreement on avoiding double taxation. Here you have put – if Slovenians consider the requested state, let's say we ask Slovenia, that it is a political crime, they will not deliver it. In their opinion! Their opinion is worth more than the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Let's move on, point 10, you can put anything in the way of discrimination. If they conclude that what Serbia is seeking is discrimination based on what they are doing, they start with gender, race, religion, ethnic origin, citizenship, language, political belief... The political confidence of Canet Subotic is enough. The political confidence of Bogoljub Karic is enough. Milan Beck's political confidence is enough. Then what did we sign? Then what did we sign? Is this binding them? No, I don't. Why? Well, they have recognised an independent Kosovo. Their soldiers are located in the KIM territory of KFOR NATO forces, as are Croatian soldiers. Croatian helicopters transfer customs. It's just amazing, this is where you talk about red, yellow, green lines, both Kosovo and the EU, even if you could put this off. Ratification to delay. But, no, you have until December to prove that you're able to eat everything, just to get the money. Just to win the parade, what is against this people's vital interests will be concluded. You know for a fact that there is a provision in the Croatian Constitution that prohibits any, political, territorial, state or any relationship with Serbs, which would be like the former SFRY. They too have a law on the return of property, but say the kidnapping of property has been committed by a criminal Yugoslav communist government. They didn't take it away from themselves. Of course, this had to come on the agenda, because the gentleman was at Janez Janša's, and now it's Janez Nikolic. They're developing co-operation. What do we do? Who's interested in these military contracts? NATO and SDPR. The SDPR is now in the Ministry. As soon as Sutanovac signed it on behalf of Serbia, I knew it was a disaster. Why the disaster? In 2002, he received 40 paid severance payments, only not to work in the state service. That's not why it came, because I keep saying it. Gentlemen, what does Mrs. Kosor say? He says, what we're interested in is your accusations from Serbia, we're legally going to save every one of our own. How can you talk further to the authorities in Croatia, when they tell you – nothing binds us? Mrs. Kosor is leaving for Pristina. What does Mrs. Kosor say? The brotherly peoples who shared in the crackdown of the SFRY. He says we had a common enemy. Jadranka Kosor in downtown Pristina says Thaci – we had a common enemy, Mr Thaci. For 12 years, the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who is in power, has been preparing staff for the affairs of the state administration of an independent state of Kosovo. He does the same thing in Slovenia. Imagine, the biggest disgrace we could experience, in the preamble to this defence co-operation agreement, Sutanovac said on behalf of Serbia that he is contributing to strengthening peace. Then he had stability. How could there be some stability when you heard this information about Serbs as victims in the territory of administrative Croatia? Why didn't you ask Rasim Ljajic? Why didn't you ask the Commissioner about the refugees? Serbia comes first in the number of refugees in Europe, and 13 in the world, and today, so many years after the ceasefires. No, you're not interested in that. You're interested in what Brussels said. We had a military exercise a few months ago. We sent this poor army of ours to prepare with the Croats on the Eugen Quaternik polygon to be part of the future forces in Afghanistan. Why? That's why. Mrs. Komic, this is the Sutanov agreement with Croatia. Article 14: "The Agreement will be applied temporarily from the date of signature" and signed in June 2010. So, what's the National Assembly here? How can something be applied before it's ratified? It's a disrespect to the National Assembly, not to say further that this is from the view of the Constitution against the Constitution. How can this minister come to work tomorrow? He must be resolved immediately. Look what's done. Why? We have a joint M-84 tank project, SDPR. You want to sell it? Who are you going to sell it to? It will be a job that will raise Serbia's economy to unprecedented proportions. Do you know how many square kilometers of land in Vojvodina is owned by Croatian companies? You don't know. And when they traffic their businesses and actions, they will not pay taxes to Serbia. If Miskovic can't and doesn't want to pay Serbia, why would Todorovic or anyone else? This kind of suicide that takes place in the Republic of Serbia, with such a power that has no Azimuth, this is really unbearable. Did you warn Croatia that their helicopters should not drive customs, so tell them – we will have problems with those radicals how to ratify this agreement, and it is important for Croatia, which is heading towards the EU by 2013, but there will be no EU at that time? What is important to you, when everything is clear – the EU does not want Serbia, not like this, but none. It does not want, and you continue – the EU, good neighbourly relations. Imagine the ridiculous situation, Article 7. You can exchange information and Sutanovac says – this is secret information, do not tell anyone, the Croatian minister has that information and will not tell anyone. How is that possible when Croatia is in the NATO Pact? So many agreements have been announced here, and with the United States, that their army is passing by, that it is trampling ours, and the minister can step on, in the end, not to answer. All negative moves. In 11 years, tell a law adopted in the National Assembly that the law was something better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There's not one. Why is this the way to force such agreements and laws? In order for those in the EU and NATO to say - what are you Serbs rebelling about, you voted in favour. That's what they say about Eulex. What are you complaining about, Eulex? You brought him here at the end of 2008. Who's to blame? "We're under pressure." Their task is to pressure you, and your task is not to accept. In that acceptance, we came into this situation today. I wouldn't be surprised if our army had chess on their sleeves. Imagine what these agreements mean for the few people in Republika Srpska, who live there. What disrespect is that for these people? What do they think, that those who killed the Rabbit family were right, that those who killed in the Paki plain of those people, were right? I'm sorry, please, you're here full of mouths to fight Fascism and Nazism. What you did in that fight, concluded a deal with protagonists of such a policy over the Serb people. Did you hear a few days ago, people running by their names and last names are openly called in Croatia to warn Croats not to vote for a list, because there are people with Serbian names and last names. When did this happen in Serbia? Never. You don't stop, you push away. About Purda and about these other things, no experience has been made, moving on. Why? The European Union has made, the NATO Pact has ordered. When they say, there's nothing to think about. What Sutanovac said, it says in "Vikliks" she is depriving – where we are going to ask the Assembly and the people about the NATO Pact, which is what the government will decide, if it doesn't, as a minister I will decide. Do you read those messages? The Americans say they're correct, but you can't say they're not true, because you're being monitored by Americans...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62575	National MP, unless there are no elements of the contract that are on the agenda in the notes you mention, please – the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62576	There is, Mrs. Comic, in the dumplings published by WikiLeaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62577	To them, I mean, connect them to the agenda theme. I'm warning you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62578	In the dispatches, the US ambassador informs the plant, where a NATO man is in charge of NATO co-operation, Dragan Sutanovac. They praise him...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62579	National MP, second warning. About respecting the agenda theme, which you are obliged to talk about. I listen to you very carefully, I know what it says in every contract, and when I remind you that you have to link your exposure to the subject of the agenda, I'm doing it for a good reason, which is why you can make an insight into the stenograms.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62580	Mr Dragan Sutanovac is the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. There are facts, data, descriptions and all that their player, who needs the Army of the Republic of Serbia to introduce the NATO Pact...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62581	People's MP, now before giving a warning, I warn you to link what you're saying to the subject of the agenda. Careful, please, because it is your duty and my obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62582	Good neighbourly relations and co-operation on the defence plan takes place under NATO's pact and NATO's mandate. It's not hard to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62583	People's MP, I don't think it's hard to understand that you're obliged to talk about the subject of the agenda. If you do not wish to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you know that it obliges me to give you measures of caution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62584	Mrs. Komic, I know the Rules of Procedure best. Don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62585	That's why I'm surprised you're breaking it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62586	I'm the biggest incubator sponsor. You punish me, then you pay for the incubators.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62587	That's exactly why I'm surprised you're breaking it. So, the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62588	I would like to explain to you, Mrs Comic, that these defence co-operation agreements concern the armies of the Republic of Serbia and concern the competent authorities for the defence of Croatia, Hungary. They're in the NATO Pact. The warrant to establish this friendly cooperation between our armies, which is not in the NATO Pact and those in our neighbourhood, which are in the NATO Pact, has come, I can't say where, but everyone knows where. Next, Mrs. Malovic, how are things with pension payments from Slovenia? It's a civil matter, let me remind you immediately. How are things with criminal cases? You don't know, next time I'll explain to you what things are and what's the problem, since I didn't bring them. You know I always wear, when you're there, a bunch of material, where people deliver everything to me and write what it's all about, but now I won't, so that you don't mistake a name and name, that there's a bigger problem. Explain to me how it is possible that members of our army could be on the ground, not very dear to us, Croatia and participate in a joint military exercise with the Croatian Armed Forces? Under what law and who made the decision, since the co-operation agreement on defence issues between Serbia and Croatia has not been ratified? The agreement is only formally legally concluded, signed, but cannot come into effect until it is finished here, even with these 126 votes. How is that possible? If it is done, and the media have published it, then the old folk saying is, "The cabbage looks at the flesh, or the one you talk about, the other you think, and the third you do." It must all be in harmony, meaning a thought act, an act of speech and action must be in unity. When there's no unity, someone's cheating on us. We have so much experience in these 11 years that we can know in advance, as soon as you say the agenda point, we can tell who the employer is, who the contractors are, you're the contractors, that's the DS termology. Why are you making agreements that are against the vital interests of the Republic of Serbia as state and Serbian people as a whole of all Serbs of this world? Do you know how many of our people you insult, our Serbs in Croatia, Serbs in BiH, Serbs in Chicago, Serbs everywhere? They are campaigning around the world to show what Slovenia and Croatia have done in breaking up the former SFRY. Films, studies are published and then, simply to be struck by the stroke when they read the agency news – a co-operation agreement in the area of defence. Who were their common enemies, for Croatia and for Serbia, please tell me, was there a common enemy? Did you listen to that group, "Gallia"? He says -- they love each other as Greeks and Turks, it's a parody of love as much as people hate each other. They love each other like Greeks and Turks, like Slovenians and Croats, like Americans and the whole world. Who in the world loves Americans? Except the Shooter. Why are you making us out there, man? The Croatian state, the official government, and Slovenia participates most directly, by two basics in the kidnapping of KIM. As EU members, as states that have recognised an independent Kosovo and as states that are members of the NATO Pact, it means three basics. What can be friendly after those three acts. You see, half their team is named "ic" in Slovenia. Let me get this straight. How is it possible to talk about good neighbourly relations if we haven't cleared up some issues from the near past? Shot 44 recruits, people. Does anyone ask them who's responsible for this? Let me not tell you, the Rabbit family, that I don't tell you these other things that happened in Croatia. Do you think it can be forgotten just as simply? It can't be forgotten. And if you haven't forgotten, then ask for answers, then condition yourself to negotiations, and you're looking for something. Until you tell us that you have completed the procedure for the responsible persons who are for 44 soldiers, please, what should we talk about? How are you receiving Jelka Katsina here? He's the second floor in the basement, Cankar's home in Ljubljana. Raised noise, helicopters, planes, satellites attacking Ljubljana. Janez Jansha was a commander, he commanded all units. They'd rather wipe out the fight against crime than be held accountable for war crimes. For the sake of the public, you know, some of ours go, so they take pictures, they can't wait. So now we've got Janez Nikolic. And he's talking about good neighbourly co-operation. They're the future government and he's the Kobajagi future government. However, Tomislav Zukorlic also became in the meantime. Styrofoam is a dangerous substance, it has a lot of chemistry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62589	If there was any hope that I could give you a warning measure after you took advantage of all the time of the parliamentary group, I would. I know there is no hope, and I can only express regret that, by your own exposure, with the excellent knowledge of all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you are knowingly violating those provisions and thereby vindicting me in taking care of the order. I'd expect it to be different. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96? National MP Dusan Maric has the right for nine minutes, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, and this debate shows that the blood from the last wars caused by Croatia, in which 120,000 were killed, wounded 550,000 people have yet to stop keying, 2,000 Serb victims have not yet been buried, 450,000 Serbs cannot return to Croatia to their homes. The Croatian Army is transporting Cypriot customs officers Brnjak and Jarinje with its helicopters. We have an unresolved issue of the Danube border. The International Court of Justice is being prosecuted by the government of the Republic of Serbia against Croatia for the most serious crimes, for the crime against peace, for the crime of genocide, for aggression. Parliament in Zagreb decides that Croatian war criminals who have mass-killed Serbian civilians cannot answer for these crimes, and five days later in Belgrade, in the Serbian Parliament, we are discussing an agreement with Croatia in the area of defence, on good neighbourly relations. I'm just asking -- where's the brains, where's the minimum of wit, the minimum of national dignity, the minimum of national and state responsibility? I will refer to several reasons for making an agreement with Croatia that we have heard. First, to learn about Croatia's experiences in international missions. I don't know what the Croats can teach us? How do Americans participate in KiM occupations or how Americans kill unfortunate people in Afghanistan? Second argument, exchange of experiences in the transformation of the military. What a black transformation, then by the dictatorship of the Americans of both armies reduced to a level of 10 battalions. Listen only to what the Serbian Army brigades are called -- the First Brigade, the Second Brigade, the Third Brigade, the Fourth Brigade. In Croatia – First Brigade, Second Brigade, Third Brigade, Fourth Brigade. In Bosnia, too. The only thing they can talk about is how to identify themselves if they get to some new slaughterhouse, to know who the First Brigade is. Next argument, organization of joint military exercises. We've heard that one of those military exercises has already been held at the Eugen Quaternik polygon. The polygon is located near Petrinja, in a UN-protected territory that Croatia has legally occupied against. Now I ask one question, no matter what you have done, is it really possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent Serb soldiers to practice on a polygon bearing the name of that famous Ustasha criminal? His name is Eugen Faternik. We've heard here that this agreement is already being applied. A representative of the ruling Sasa Dujovic coalition also said that. I once again ask the question -- how is it possible for the government of the Republic of Serbia to apply an agreement, especially an agreement concerning sensitive areas, such as the area of defence, without the agreement being confirmed in parliament. Then what's this debate for? The agreement states that we and Croatia will work together to build defence plans. We all know, small children in Serbia, every Serbian little child knows that Croatia has always been the most faithful and faithful ally of all those who attacked Serbia, as we know that Croatia is a potential ally of all those who can potentially threaten Serbia. Who will the Croats defend with common plans? Perhaps from Germany with whom in the last 60, 70 years, they have committed three aggressions against the Serbian people. They committed two crimes of genocide. Perhaps a joint defence plan from the NATO Pact, with which they planned and implemented these criminal actions "Blash" and "Storm", or perhaps a joint defence plan against Hashim Thaci. Jadranka Kosor, at the moment of the biggest crisis in KIM when there was an objectively danger of war, hastens better in Pristina and Hashim Thaci's Hague to challenge the war. He declares that Croatia and Kosovo have always been the biggest friends. Now I ask the question, really how is it possible for Serbia to be friends with someone who is the greatest friend of Hashim Thaci? Is it normal for Boris Tadic to be friends with Jadranka Kosor and Ivo Josipovic. If Ivo Josipovic and Jadranka Kosor are best friends of Hashim Thaci according to their own recognition. I ask the question, why is no demarcation agreement signed with Croatia. You know we have a question of demarcation in the Danube. Because they won't sign that agreement. They took West and Eastern Slavonia, took Baranja, took Srem, took Lika, Banija, Kordun, Central Dalmatia, and that's not enough. They have the right bank of the Danube, but they would if they could take the left coast. How could the two countries sign an agreement on co-operation in the area of defence and have no solution to the issue of demarcation. So what kind of territory does that apply to? Let's say we reach an agreement on a common defense, an anti-rocket shield. We're asking to be placed on the right bank of the Danube, they say in no we'll place it on the left, that's our territory. Article 11 states that while staying on the territory of the recipient country, the sender state, in this case Croatia, will enjoy legal untouchableness. So it will be in accordance with national legislation. You know what this means? It means that Croatian soldiers in Serbia's territory will be legally untouchable, such as legally untouchable NATO pact soldiers. This means practically that a member of the Croatian army who killed Serb civilians in Gospić, in Pakrac Poljana, in Kupres, hypothetically, means that there is a possibility of coming to Serbia as a member of this mission and can commit a crime again in Serbia's territory. You know what will happen under this agreement? Nothing. A man will sit in a vehicle that has arrived in Serbia's territory, leave Serbia's territory, and go to Croatia. The government here also proposes the conclusion of two agreements with Slovenia on extradition and co-operation in criminal matters. We don't mind that, but we're drawing attention that these agreements refer to an insignificant small number of people, mostly criminals. I ask the question why you have not previously resolved the 10,000 Serb issue originating in Serbia living in Slovenia that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took away citizenship in 1991. These people have lived as second-class citizens for 10 years. They live illegally in Slovenia. They live as hostages of the Slovenian government. Let me finish. We from the SRS don't hate Croats, we have members of the party who are Croats, we have party officials who are Croats. On the contrary, we believe that in the future Serbs and Croats should live in good relations, that the border between Croatia and Serbia on the Virovitica line, Ogulin, Karlobag should be the border of merger, not the border of separation. However, under the current circumstances, circumstances when in the next parliamentary elections a Croatian list leads Branimir Glavas, a man who has been sentenced to 11 years for crimes committed against Serb civilians in conditions when Croatia cherishes the results of war crimes of ethnic cleansing, in a situation where the Croatian authorities, they publicly declare us, drink us as a glass of water, we cannot agree to vote for this shameful and offensive agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62591	The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62592	Dearly chaired, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I thank all those who have discussed and participated in today's debate on the Treaty and the agreement on the agenda. I want to remind you all that this government of the Republic of Serbia is formed on five goals and one of those five objectives, two objectives are to step up the fight against crime, especially organised crime and corruption, and the other is international co-operation. Unless we have an extremely active regional co-operation, we certainly cannot fully respond to these two goals. Secondly, I want to remind you of the recent past, the policy of isolation and closure policy, without active co-operation with neighbours simply did not contribute well, both to citizens within our country and to the Serbian people who live outside Serbia's borders. Therefore, if we talk to our neighbours, I am convinced that we will be able to achieve a much greater degree of rights for our citizens who live in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in Macedonia, and in other countries. As regards the Treaty of Co-operation with the Republic of Slovenia on Civil and Criminal Cooperation, as well as the Contract on Extradition, I would like to say that this Treaty will also contribute to the more effective conduct of criminal proceedings, especially those of which we pay particular attention to cases concerning organised crime but will certainly contribute to the resolution of certain issues when a litigation is initiated. I understand your concern that other matters should be discussed, such as status and existential issues and pension issues, and citizenship issues, and these are important issues, but what is the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry is international public legal aid in civil and criminal matters and we pay attention to that and it is precisely the result of this attention and this contract. With other countries in the region, we concluded this type of contract, I would like to point out that the Republic of Serbia signed a contract with Croatia on the extradition of its own citizens and that one of the first results, the execution of the contract was the extradition of Kalinic, who was also sentenced to participate in the murder of the prime minister. Zoran Djindjic, so the subject suggests or this case points to the necessity of this co-operation. Also, we have contracts with Montenegro that we have concluded, I would say it is one of the greatest degrees of rights that we have given by one contract and I am deeply convinced that the execution of this contract will contribute, as I said more effectively to the conduct of the criminal procedure. As for the defence co-operation agreement with both Croatia and Hungary and Nigeria, which are here on the agenda, especially those concerning co-operation with Croatia and Hungary and they are now contributing to regional co-operation. As I said, regional co-operation is not something that we pay attention to exclusively because of European integration, although we must refer to the fact that in the guidelines that the EU has drawn for the countries that are willing to join this body, it is primarily and very important to establish regional co-operation, but the first effect is the effect on raising the rights of our citizens. Here someone mentioned the first effect is the effect of raising the rights of our citizens. Here someone also mentioned the law on the futility of legal acts, which is the law on the futility of legal acts recently adopted by Croatia. I don't think it's a law to honor Croatia. At the very least, we will also see the legal fate of the law, as we are from the media, and we are officially informed that the President of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Josipovic will launch an evaluation initiative before the Constitutional Court of Croatia. Enough to say that the law in their parliament was not defended by the minister of justice, but by the minister of state administration, etc., which is enough to say the controversial voting of such a kind of law. I am not for retroactive measures because simply these retroactive measures cannot contribute, but certainly in legal, diplomatic and allowed channels we will point to the harmfulness of such a law. That's what I did in my talks with Mission OSCE in Serbia. I have also worked with representatives of the European Commission, and I believe that some other forums will discuss it. Co-operation with Croatia is important, as you yourself said, because, according to data, there are 120,000 killed, 550,000 wounded from the conflict that occurred in the area. I think we are obliged to both families and victims to cooperate and try to establish as I said a much higher degree of law, and we can only do so if we talk. Also, at one point, a recent marking of the events of shooting students in Kragujevac was mentioned here as one truly monstrous act. I don't think we should talk about it so much further because we're all aware and we've studied it since the primary school and I think that our feelings and our relationship with it have been expressed in the last marking, but it reminded me of the fact that on January 27, 2010, the President of Israel spoke in Bunderstage, and it also says that even though such conflicts and monstrous crimes happen between the people, it doesn't mean that they shouldn't talk and that it doesn't mean that, of course, the government is responsible and rational and eager for co-operation doesn't need to establish contacts and interests. I am deeply convinced that these agreements will be ratified. I also want to point out the fact that this defence co-operation agreement has been ratified in Croatia since it was the most said here and that it will also contribute to further co-operation between our countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62593	I am concluding a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Extradition, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Co-operation in the field of defence and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Co-operation in the area of defence. This concludes the morning part of our work today. The work continues today at 1600 hours, which will last until 19:00 hours, where, based on the rules of the Rules of Procedure, given that the last working Thursday of the month, the government of the Republic of Serbia with its members will be present in the hall, and MPs have the right to ask parliamentary questions. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked: the MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a particular minister or government, in accordance with Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure; the parliamentary question must be clearly formulated, as set out in Article 204(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and finally, the presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, which is also defined by Article 204(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; the President of the National Assembly will warn the MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority, as prescribed in Article 204(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Government, or the Minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they must immediately explain this to the MP in writing, within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, in accordance with Rule 206(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as regulated by Article 216. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. I ask all MPs to do so as soon as possible, so that a list of the names and last names of the MPs who wish to participate in asking parliamentary questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia could be designated. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, by giving a change first word to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. MP Riza Halimi has the right to first ask a parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62595	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, members of the Government, concerning the very serious life problems that appear in our area of Presevo-Bujanovac-Medvedja, I have asked the government and the written response that I received on 18 August, signed by Deputy Prime Minister, is not directly answering questions about these issues. In the end, you have this interesting sentence, which is said to be – therefore the dialogue with the temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina, is aimed at overcoming the solution to basic life issues faced by citizens living in Kosovo's space. Earlier on these same problems, I asked the prime minister and he replied that a number of these problems, very sensitive, would be expected to be resolved in the upcoming dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. Based on the answer I received, it turns out that only the life problems of Kosovo's citizens will be solved in this dialogue, not in this case the problems I have raised questions for, which concern Albanians in the Presevo Valley. So now I'm looking for an explanation that we know where we are. In addition, I thought I would ask Minister Ciric, and since he is not there, again I ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic a question – it was announced in the means of informing that a series of very bad privatisations will be reviewed in the past period. We know it's usually going to be for big companies that are of the state's best interest. But what about very frantic, very bad privatisations in smaller places, such as Presevo? I'm here who knows how many times I've spent the company being sold, and it's a protective company sold for 260,000 dinars, with some obligations less than 200,000 dinars to invest. There are 30 workers left without a job, and what now? The property is probably worth more than 500,000 euros. Is that where the authorities need to see it, to question it, because this robbery obviously can't, in broad daylight, steal that kind of social property and keep people on the street? Again, I was even bored with that story about the company "Brothership" when I asked, in due course, what the economy minister would do three years ago to prevent discrimination, because domestic businessmen were prevented from buying commercial businesses, business space in Presevo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62596	Three minutes. Thank you. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62597	Dear People's MP, about this first issue of the problem of Albanians from the Presevo Valley, I remember that we then discussed the issue of diploma recognition and that their problems because they are studying in Pristina are getting diplomas that are not recognised by us. In this context, this issue that will be the subject of dialogue is essentially about all diplomas, not of individuals who live in a country like ours, perhaps in Albania, etc., but is at all a question of whether the diploma can be recognised as valid with us and under what conditions. That's when I said it was going to be a matter of dialogue, and you probably know that it's one of the questions that's on the list. When it comes to order, it will also be considered. I don't know any other questions about what you mean, when you say -- about the problems of Albanians in southern Serbia. As for poor privatisations, it is unfortunately not a matter that has any national context, but simply, you have bad privatisations everywhere and what I can say is that the Agency for Privatisation and the Ministry of Economy, has an obligation, and it has done so far, to take care of legal regulations, whether contracts signed in privatisation or not are being met. In this context, privatisation can be reconsidered. If the situation that the contract is generally respected, then the possibility of revoking privatisation is minimal, i.e. there is no legal basis for it. Unfortunately, we have a situation that a number of privatisations, i.e. those owners who came to the company, although in a transparent and open way, were later because they were, I say, not ready enough and able to deal with the market, and then they lost and the companies could not lead in quality, but there is also a situation when someone entered the privatisation by looking only at the property of businesses, and not so much with the desire for the company to continue to work. In this context, these privatisation contracts also included the obligation to maintain operations over the next few years. Of course, if we have a situation where someone fired workers, did not stick to action, then there is a lot of ground to break up or seek out a new buyer, or in some way, see how to resolve the issue of the company.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62598	MP Riza Halimi. Three minutes of supplemental question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62599	Thank you. In terms of privatisation, I think if the company has 6000 square meters and it is urbanized, along the highway, it has at least one apartment, and the machines are sold as old iron, you can conclude that all of this was sold for 2600 euros and that the obligation was less than 200,000 to invest. When I tried at the Privatisation Agency to point out manipulations, they convinced me that the company produced, even though it sold products that were produced there 20 years earlier. It was an obvious manipulation, not to mention a robbery. It is clear that more than 500,000 euros were sold for 2600 euros to the commercial company. You know, and I've just started talking about it, but I'm not finished, it's about money laundering, it's about drug trafficking, that consortium on the Vranje-Bu two. It was even multiethnic. The state, when it was supposed to sell the social firm, never wanted to allow domestic people to buy that company. This is really for serious concern. As far as the diplomas you mentioned are concerned, I think you even mentioned Albania's diplomas, and that's a kind of problem. Three times the deputy prime minister from Albania is coming to Belgrade to finally agree that the two governments recognise each other's diplomas. That problem hasn't been solved in 10 years. Not to mention this political problem that needs to be solved when it comes to diplomas in Pristina. They're hurting our people, the citizens of this country for it. There's a high policy going on, and people's life problems on the ground aren't solved. And then, what are we on? He's got other problems. And a question of pensions that people can't make if they're working part of Kosovo. To be clear, the Albanians can't do that. It's also ethnic discrimination. Albanians working on Kosovo territory and in those companies cannot make that part through pension, as it is said Belgrade does not have original documentation. The originals stayed in Kosovo. That problem can't be solved. People are dying. When, in this case, will Pristina and Belgrade be resolved? No dialogue on the subject has even been announced. When are these people gonna make that part of the pension? Maybe someone worked in Kosovo all the time, and the citizen is Presevo, Bujanovac or Bear. They've got other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62600	Three minutes. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome students of the Serbian language study programme and literature at the Faculty of Philosophy in Niksic, who are guests today and are currently monitoring part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. They are present: Prof. Dr. Goran Radonjic, Prof. Milorad Durutović, Bojana Pejović, Jelena Martinović, Sanja Bojić, Tamara Milošević, Jovan Krušić, Pero Kaluđerović, Danilo Simičević, Ivana Kilibard, Dubravka Pantović, Petruša Božović, Kristina Žugić, Marija Nenezić, Vasilije Savić, Marko Stevanović, Goran Vlačević, Velika Perutović, Maja Simović, Filip Jovović, Milica Tomašević, Ana Simović, Ivan Grbović, Jelena Angelić, Dragana Rajjević, Milica Svrkota, Jelena Vlahović, Ivo Vulić, Ivona Vulić, Ana Kilibarda, Jadranka Bojović, Mirjana Rajović, Dragana Pajović, Milena Draga Draga Draga Draga Dragić, Dana Dragić, Dana Radojčić, Mila Radojčić, Milica Radojčić, Milica Sekulić, Mila Š, Dragović, Dragna Mirović, Dragović. Welcome to Serbia, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62601	It's very short, since you've commented on my response to privatisation, and there really is one part that I haven't given an answer to. I was talking about the possibility of breaking up privatisation based on the fact that the contract is not respected. But when you look at yourself, the model and concept of privatisation, the auction you mentioned, is a way of selling in which everyone has the right to participate. It's a public way of selling, where some participants compete by raising the price and giving the maximum of what they think the company is worth. If that's how the model is set, then we can no longer talk about whether the price is high or low, because whoever thinks the price is too low has dropped the chance of taking part in the auction and giving a higher price that would be appropriate. This price, which may seem to be small, can be due primarily to the fact that the company is over-indebted, that its debts, when they are collected, are actually larger than assets, so that it is some residual difference, or, of course, can be the result of someone driving off customers, forbidding them physically or otherwise to appear at auction, which is one criminal act, and that, if established, may be the basis for the cancellation of auctions and, practically, such a person will then be prosecuted by the authorities. If there is such information that it happened in that case and that the price is artificially lower because the restrictions of those who would be involved in it have been done, then it's a completely different story and that's something we have to deal with seriously. I call upon those who have such knowledge to address the authorities who will respond immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62602	Minister Rasim Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62603	Very briefly, we have already answered this question regarding the exercise of pension rights. Surely it is a problem, given that part of the workers from Presevo municipality, Medvedja and Bujanovac achieved some insurance in the KIM area, but simply the law is explicit and clear there. Without clear evidence of the payment of social security contributions, we cannot in any way help solve this problem at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62604	National MP Riza Halimi, two minutes of comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62605	Thank you. In fact, from Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, I received a slightly different interpretation, that it is not a problem and that they have been found to have paid and carried out the compensation obligations, but rather the procedure and procedure for establishing pension rights in the absence of originals that were meant to be in Pristina, and Belgrade is not. This is the answer I received from Deputy Dacic on this question. I'm going back to the privatisation thing again. I don't think what Mr. Cvetkovic said was that the debts were higher than the values, because there was practice, outside of these two cases that I mentioned, that only part of the assets at the auction stood out in the competition, not the entire assets, and that's one part of the manipulation, and it's absolutely disproportional in terms of 100 to 200 times. If it is worth 2500-2600 euros that has been paid, on the other hand, you have, in my opinion, the minimum value of 500,000 euros. It's a huge proportion and a lack of elemental responsibility to destroy social property in such a way, and 30 workers only in one, not to talk about other companies, to stay on the street. I think this is a basic problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62606	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Dujovic, a parliamentary question, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62607	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two questions and I will start, as the ministers who need answers are not there, I will start with the government's question. The question for the government is – what is the government doing, I will continue where my colleague Halimi stopped, he was specific with Presevo, and I will ask – what about privatisations in Vojvodina, agricultural cooperatives, agricultural goods, which these days are largely small shareholders, proving that the privatised agricultural land that is privatised, according to them, is illegal, what does the government do to determine, is it true that the documentation submitted by small shareholders is correct or are the right privatisation agencies and owners who bought it? We are witnessing that after each purchase of an agricultural cooperative or agricultural good people in a short period of time, we lost their jobs, so that many villages died, workers were fired because the owners had the idea that they could work with far fewer workers and those villages died. In many places, they live on pensions, and people collected documentation, and they also handed it over to the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Proposals and Proposals and the Prosecutor's Office for Privatisation and Response. The second question is that it is in the process of proving that the state owes the users of combat-involvement protection certain funds for the purpose of disbursement of their competencies which the State has regulated by law. A certain period of time, the courts ruled in favour of the users of combat-involved protection that charged their estates, i.e. Receipts and concerted receipts, and then, with one view of the Cassation Court, all of these were cut off. We have a chance that many of our colleagues will go all the way to Strasbourg to prove it, because literally on the same basis someone has been convicted, and for the other there is no possibility of a trial being conducted, let alone a verdict in its favour. That would be the two questions, and I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62608	Does the Prime Minister want to answer? Minister Dusan Petrovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62609	We will, of course, forward this question to Mr. Ciric, if he can measurely answer the part relating to the essential course of the privatisation process, to break privatisations, and to what all the Ministry of Economy is doing at the moment, when one part of the legal person you're talking about here is. What I can generally tell you, first of all, is to separate agricultural cooperatives from privatized enterprises. We are close, before the adoption of the Cooperative Law, and then a significant number of questions will be answered. In addition, the proposal will be put before the MPs, and an important and important issue will pass through the debate in parliament. A very significant number, not only a number but significant companies and companies in this area have entered into the process, and this procedure has even been completed, a break-up of privatisation, on the other hand, in some court proceedings, measures have been taken to suspend some of the privatised agricultural enterprises, so that at this point I can tell you precisely that the Ministry of Economy has made one conclusion that the Government has adopted, where certain recommendations have been made to local self-governments around the state land in the process of processing in these agricultural holdings. So, simply saying, at this point, the state is managing these companies and I think there will be some very important and significant decisions that should give some kind of a path out of this situation. What's most important is that the government took steps to avoid further collapse of the economics of these agricultural holdings, so that what you were talking about wouldn't be in an even worse situation, that even more people wouldn't be out of a job. We hope that these solutions will be such that, when these ownership situations are resolved, we will have very strong and important companies in agriculture because the government is doing everything to support small agricultural enterprises, and it is also important that these companies that have large land complexes get adequate treatment, because this will also increase the country's GDP, will be a springboard to tie up a large number of cooperatives, and it is not only a matter for these companies to function well, but for them to be one platform, so that a large number of families, binding on these companies and these companies, could live better than they do now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62610	National MP Sasa Dujovic, three minutes, is an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62611	The additional question would refer specifically to the company a.d. "Hiss" from Lovcenec. It is a privatised agricultural company that has been allocated some significant funds from privatisation itself, around sixm euros currently stands at business banks, of which small shareholders own about two million euros to pay them according to what they have been doing and invested in the company alone for years. It's somewhere even the condition of a privatisation and sale contract. So the question is, why isn't that being implemented? It's a very simple question. People don't expect that privatisation to be annulled, they just expect it to be multiplied by a number of funds, and they pay off. That money is how the Privatisation Agency informed us about business banks. It's simple, it's a little illogical, and it shouldn't, of course, be too smart to figure out what two million euros in agriculture would mean for that move there, Back or the Hunter himself and the citizens themselves. So the question is when and how will it be regulated?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62612	Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62613	We'll forward it to Mr. Ciric, and I'm sure you'll get your deadline in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62614	Does MP Sasa Dujovic want two minutes to comment? (No) In that case, the word has a People's MP Milos Aligrudic, three minutes, a parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62615	Thank you. I think the Prime Minister and present ministers already know what I'm going to ask. This concerns this future debate, which I hope we will have, about KIM in our parliament. Namely, you, like the citizens, have been able to monitor all these events so far and have had the opportunity to communicate with the head of the largest parliamentary group, Nada Kolundzija, as well as with Parliament Vice-President Gordan Comic. They were reporting to us that they were in communication with you about holding a session. So I just can't help it. You're here now, we're here, it's all live, so I have to ask you something that I haven't had a chance these days, but we've been communicating indirectly. Number one, you had this government report that you owe three months to file? Is he ready? Did he go through a cabinet session? We didn't get anything until the moment we went down to the O.R., so I'm interested. It's all one question, but it's more of an aspect, and it's about one thing. So the other thing about it is how did you imagine it? Our play about it, and I'll tell you openly, is very simple. So, the report is the form in which one subject is discussed. The report is about the actual state of affairs, about something that was behind us for a period of two to three months. It is personally inconceivable for me that through that report or that at the end of that report, at least one or two conclusions about what is next or how we can see this thing. That's what's very important. Our deep belief was, and it is still, that from the moment things were sharpened a few days ago, that it is pointless and despite the fact that the form of this Parliament exists, it is its thing, but that we cannot talk about anything in this House except this important thing. So the time frame here is also very important, and that means when we expect that session. The president will schedule the assembly, but it's up to you. We are also convinced that the initiator of that session must be the Government, given all the circumstances. So the question that arises from this is very simple – when, what is on the agenda and how will this be done? What's your idea about all this?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62616	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62617	So, a declaration adopted by the assembly, which concerns Kosovo, at one of its points has obliged the government to report three months on what the government has done in Kosovo and what the situation is in that reporting period, to call it that. Three months since the declaration expires, I think it's 90 days, maybe it's not three months, it doesn't matter, it expires 29th this month, which means Saturday. However, the government, in fact, has already prepared the report and it has referred it to the government's session. The government was considering him today. The consideration was quite broad and then adopted as material that could and should be handed over to the congregation. At this point, I think he's technically just sorting himself out. So nothing called a legal-technical editorial, nothing essential. I expect that during later afternoons today or certainly during today's day, this report will be formally submitted to the Assembly. I don't know if you're going to get it tonight or tomorrow morning, but you can count on government to get it in the course of this afternoon or in the evening. As for the very session of the Assembly, at which the report would be discussed, we are inclined, it is not yet formal, but I think we will propose, we are now conducting consultations in the government, that we propose that the session of the Assembly be held on November 2nd and that the report be discussed at that session. It's Wednesday next week. You will have time to read it in detail and take your views on it. I am not very familiar with the details of how the Assembly works, in terms of what is voted, what is not voted on, but strictly looking at the requirements given in that declaration, the government was obliged to submit an activity report and that is, a report on the activities so far. I believe that at the very session of the Assembly, the question will be raised as to what further, in which way, etc., but it is not a matter of that report, because that declaration did not require us to do so. On the contrary, the declaration actually gave guidance on how problems should be solved. Of course, the government has followed these guidelines so far and will stick to the future. This is where the debate will open as already opened. What I'm trying to say is that it will be, of course, a proposal from the government. The government can't schedule a session, but we'll make such a proposal, and then you'll assume you'll schedule the session properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62618	National MP Milos Aligrudic, three minutes, additional questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62619	Okay, this answer of yours is technically informative. What I see in it, and from which my next question will arise, the additional question, I notice that it is a problem. After three months of various events, the report is undoubtedly needed, no doubt we need to know the facts. Who is likely to present them better than the Government through their offices and ministries, who were involved in the negotiations, in all events, etc.? That's not controversial. The problem is that today I am talking to the Serbian prime minister and I cannot believe that, although we are having a technical conversation in the first part of the event, about the session and what is next, I cannot believe that there are no political reflections in your response. I can't believe there isn't even an announcement of the outline of the steps to be taken in the next period. It's simply an unacceptable answer for me – you know how, it's not up to us, it's up to us to give you facts, and you're the Assembly, so you're going to distribute it, I'm of course interpreting it in my own way, but the point is, to distribute it on possible further steps. Wait, how do you imagine we do that? Why does the Parliament choose the Government? To run politics. The Assembly assesses the government's work through the evaluation of this policy. The evaluation of politics is not only done in normal countries retroactively, but we assess what you did and what you suggest you do. You don't just do it once we choose the government or you do the reconstruction. It's done in all the other key moments, unless you think this moment isn't the key, which is where we are. The second thing is that certain questions arise from that. So I'm interested in what happens tomorrow, I can't just analyze what happened a week or two ago. I, for example, didn't like that at all that we entered the SAA in this way, that we entered into one lead of blackmail that came thanks to our choice – the EU has no alternative. Then we led ourselves to endure daily blackmail from that side. Let's bring that story down to the next one. What is it that we're going to do the next day, how are we going to set ourselves up according to this thing? Here's a concrete supplemental question, that's what you're talking about these days. One question has already been asked here, let's speed up that thing, maybe I can get an answer from you now. Will the next day, when elections are scheduled, i.e. The government issue, you run politics, will these elections be called, the republican elections, both in KIM and will local elections be called at KIM? Do you even have the outlines of what's going to happen? What's the bottom line, what's the line below which you can't go? Can you tell us today? At least give us something the English would say - hint. Say something, let's know. The problem is that we don't have that kind of communication with you, and we can't conclude anything from reading the papers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62620	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62621	Technical questions are given technical answers. Your question was whether there was a report at all, I said there was, the government adopted it, and you'll get it today. And whether there will be a assembly, I said yes. You, of course, have an opportunity for the so-called “Birds of Parliament. ” Thematic session. You could've been looking for her, it would've been something different than this, but you just chose this type of session and I have nothing against it. As far as specific questions are concerned, of course no one in the government expected that MPs would now receive operational instructions on what to do, but ultimately, when discussing what is adopted in the Assembly, the government is obliged to implement. We are carrying out what was adopted in the congregation and written in that declaration. Of course, there have been various different ideas and suggestions, but what most adopt will happen. When it comes to the election, the election isn't even scheduled for us yet. We're going into one regular election cycle and then in the next period we're going to make the right choices in which way and what will be done. So it's not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62622	National MP Milos Aligrudic, commentary, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62623	There's a very simple comment. This shows that we don't actually have a KIM policy. There is no possibility that the country's prime minister will answer the question directly to the lower border MPs at this point. If there is no such possibility by the Prime Minister, then this policy, at least as far as KIM is concerned, because that's what we're talking about right now, has failed. There's no such thing as the bottom line, who knows where she is. Who knows what can be determined. You hurriedly and hastily flew into the UN General Assembly, in that resolution that practically committed us, because it was actually written by the EU, to co-operate with them, the UN Security Council was pushed out, the EU's intervention in the whole story was formalised on the ground. EULEX and KFOR work all the time for Albanian separatism. We don't have the key, we don't have any kind of procedure, nor has the government articulated it. How can this process be stopped? It leaks like sand through its fist and there is no lower limit. That's the essence of what you're talking about. It is simply amazing and amazing that you have ever agreed to a congregation debate. You know what, I know the drill, but you have a political burden. You're the one who, if not formal initiators, must be the key initiators of the debate. You're the one who needs to hear the suggestions and you're the last one who can say you don't know how the laws of the Republic of Serbia will apply on her entire territory. It's just not normal. And finally, finally, to end up with, if you keep going like this, and you're going bad and it's taking a long time, then it's a wedge in this country's coffin of integrity. But I know one thing for sure, so there are names that will be responsible for it. One of those names is you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62624	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, the right to ask a parliamentary question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62625	I'm asking the government a question. Right at the beginning, my question has nothing to do with this previous question. We're hoping to talk about it Wednesday. Mr Cvetkovic, people in KIM believe that institutional discrimination against the citizens of KIM, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is at work. I use these terms on purpose because, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244, you as Prime Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to lead internal and external policies and to take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question, how can such brutal discrimination be made against those citizens down there? Answer me a question about how the passport received by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Belgrade and the passport to be given to a citizen of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo Mitrovica differs? What is the difference when it comes to ID, what is the difference between a person living on Dorcolo and a person living in Banjska? With what right have you so far called on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia to go to KiM to vote for the institutions of the false state of Kosovo, and you say that if you have a question asked to the International Court of Justice, and there is a completely different answer? According to the International Court of Justice, there we have a singing society that has declared its independence. By the way, who gave me the building permit to build their institutions in Kosovo Mitrovica? Who made it possible for them to get a trafo station, get a phone station? To answer my question how is it possible to be a different treatment or level or type of traffic of goods in the location of Jarinje and, say, at the location of Merdare? Who has authorized the Government of the Republic of Serbia to discriminate against its citizens, against its citizens, against its people? I speak in a populist sense of words, not in ethnic terms of words.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62626	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62627	Dear People's MP, as you know, Resolution 1244 of the KIM territory has been declared a special area over which there is no state of Serbia, or does not establish a tax issue, I answer what you asked about trade, where the UN administration is practically in charge of that territory. We don't mean to discriminate on any of our citizens, but this resolution has actually set up a different system in Kosovo and we stick to it. In addition, it should be borne in mind that all these regulations that we are talking about have not been passed by this Government, but they have been brought before that, and it adheres to them, and the regulations are about Resolution 1244. What seems to you to be discrimination is actually respect for this resolution that is very important to us, because we draw from it the practical basis that KIM is part of Serbia's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62628	MP Zoran Krasic, supplemental question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62629	Mr. Cvetkovic, I've been counting on not being informed as a characteristic of others, but let me let you know. Those who recognise the Republic of Serbia as their country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have their residence in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, let's say they are from the Zubi Potok, when they receive the passport of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, come to Belgrade, not to the MUP, but to the co-ordination body for Kosovo and Metohija, and with this passport they cannot even be photographed. Because if they want to go out somewhere they have to come to Pristina to get a visa. Excuse me, please. A citizen from the first neighbouring place, Raška, gets a passport in Raška's ID card in Raška, registers a car in Raška. Don't sit on the story of parallel institutions. The fact that someone is talking about parallel institutions is illegal institutions, lies to the countries of Kosovo. Our institutions, if they exist, and there must be Mr Cvetkovic, in the entire territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, are the original institutions. Mr. Cvetkovic, the NATO Pact has made Kosovo defence forces. Mr. Cvetkovic, do you know what acquired rights mean? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia have acquired rights. The fact that one of the Albanians does not recognise the Republic of Serbia as his country is his personal problem. But all those who recognise the Republic of Serbia as their country no matter where their house is located, no matter where their residence is, the Government of the Republic of Serbia must not make discrimination against them. Mr Cvetkovic, did you raise your voice against the use of Croatian helicopters, Slovenian armed forces, Croatian armed forces, which are being held in the territory of Kosovo and the Metohija within KFOR. You did not answer my question who gave them the building permit to build their own premises and their facility in Kosovo Mitrovica, who gave them phone connections, who allowed them to use electricity? Mr Cvetkovic, this government and no Government of the Republic of Serbia must co-operate with those who do not recognise the Republic of Serbia in the entire territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we're asking of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution and resolution in your hands and do not deviate from that. And that means that all disputed issues of Kosovo and Metohija must be returned to the Security Council immediately. Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62630	Three minutes. Does the Prime Minister or the Minister want to comment on the additional issue? No, I don't. ) National MP, I have no intention of taking the time to ask parliamentary questions, to quote all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are governed by the course of the session of parliamentary questions, so I am only referring you to the article. 204, 206 and 207. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic has a word. Three minutes. One question from the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62631	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a respected prime minister, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, unlike predecessors, I would like to commend the government's work on the most difficult conditions of the global economic crisis to ensure stability in the country, both financial flows and other projects. I would like to commend the work of the Fund of Solidarity of the Republic of Serbia, which took care of the workers of the bankruptcy company, 50,000 employees of the firm in bankruptcy received funds from this fund. I would highlight the good work of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which has allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises 12.5 billion dinars this year. Over 550 companies received funds from the Development Fund. What I would like to point out is that before I ask these questions, and it is about the development strategy of small and medium-sized enterprises, there is also an indication of the work of local self-government that needs to prepare the ground and simply adapt local, municipal taxes to the current conditions in which these small companies work. And now my question to the Government is what is the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is related to the development and survival of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62632	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62633	First of all, I'd like to say that small and medium-sized enterprises represent, even though they're called small and medium-sized enterprises, in fact, most of our economy, even though you look at it, it's not rare. In fact, the most developed countries have the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises far more than large ones. Of course, we can't live without large businesses, because they're the main clients of small and medium-sized enterprises, but small and medium-sized enterprises are companies that are moto development and basically they employ the most people through a lot of these companies. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia is mostly considering the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises and how on average to achieve such a situation in which it could survive and go, to develop further. One of the main problems of our economy at this point is the practical lack of financial resources and, above all, the lack of financial resources that would be long-term character and that would be with acceptable, relatively low interest rates. The government, of course, cannot affect the market and interest rates, so it cannot in principle affect the provision of long-term deposits that would be the basis for long-term loans. But we are working to provide certain favourable credit lines, and in this context it is secure, but as of next week it will be operational, this annex line via the European Investment Bank, which will be given 250m euros, for small and medium-sized enterprises precisely under extremely favourable conditions. These are the terms of two, three years of grace periods, so not paying off the principal, then, seven years of payments with low interest rates. So that loan, we've been negotiating it for a long time, it's operational and it's going to be the first round of these loans to be available and one good part of these companies is familiar with it and they're already competing through business banks. It will be one system in which to go to banks, and then the banks will give, on one condition, to the Government Commission, which will see if these are the relevant sectors that we want to support, first of all, with an export orientation within the real sector, and then go to the European Investment Bank that will definitely decide on it. In addition, we will also provide certain deposits, which will begin talks for the next ten days, which will allow commercial banks to provide significant funding for small, medium-sized enterprises and to follow them in an investment sense. Also, long-term loans would be dinar and interest rates that are acceptable. That's the two, let me say, those two important things we're going with when it comes to what the Republic Government can do. At the same time, in order to encourage exports of small and medium-sized enterprises, more small than medium-sized enterprises, we worked out with Posta Srpska a model to which Serbia's Post Office would be involved in exporting our shipments that would be less than 1,000 euros. It is also a new model that should be operationalised these days with only two documents, with the minimum costs of people with small workshops and wants to export, for example, to Republika Srpska, BiH and Macedonia, will be able to do so without asking the freighter and all those complications with the help of the post office. The experience we have applied has been taken over from Brazil, where exports of small and medium-sized enterprises have been tripplied in a short time, and we think it will be a pretty good incentive on this side. When you talk about taxes and the need for local taxes to be reduced practically, I want to say it's a local thing. We appeal to local self-government to adapt the fees to the power of small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus they can not get into a situation that because of these some incomes that are not on the baseline, or expenditure that they cannot operate. Finally, I'd like to say two more things. One question is the reduction of contributions that are really important if it comes to new workers and that is something that already exists. All those who are now opening up businesses, hiring new workers who have not worked in the last six months, will be able to make half of them contribute and make the workforce far cheaper to them than it has been without it. Finally, we have considered it, but we can discuss it a little bit more later, the government has considered and adopted a regulation today that limits payment to the economy, and this will primarily refer to small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62634	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic, three minutes of additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62635	Since many things are being prescribed to this government, unfortunately, everything that happened in earlier years and what has now to be corrected, my question would be about media speculation, related to the closure of more than a thousand or thousands of companies, small and medium-sized. How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62636	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62637	First of all, I have to say that it really comes at the same time and to the opening and closing of the company. Why do I say that? Because we have managed in the last few years, not to think about this government but about the previous governments, to create a favourable economic environment, in practice, to make it very easy for companies to open up. With 500 euros in a few days, you can open a company, which was often a case of various speculations, so people opened up dozens of businesses, and then they closed them down later. But regardless of these speculative things, we constantly have one wave of opening up new and closing up old businesses. In the net situation when you look at it, we've lost a number, but first of all, I think about entrepreneurs, not so much about businesses, which is the result of the economic crisis. That information's a little insecure because when someone has this company, you're not sure if it works, it doesn't work, etc. That is why, looking at the number of employees, I looked at only the number of legal persons employed and compared how he moved and really fell during the crisis period, especially in 2009 and 2010. Later, something recovered. When looking at the situation at the end of September this year and comparing to the situation at the end of September last year, we have a little more employees this year than before, but that is not enough and we still think that the key problem in this country is high unemployment and in this context the government has a whole series of incentive measures that I mentioned to small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, there are other measures that affect our economic environment to be attractive and to ensure the interest of large investors to come, both large and small.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62638	Would you like two minutes to comment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62639	I would like to thank you for your answers, and I would add that the government has done a lot about undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. I come from one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, the municipality of Kučevo where the interest rate, for example, is at the Republic Development Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises only 1% and when the grace period is one year, and so little interest rate, it is a really big advantage. On the other hand, the National Employment Service was very zealous about the employment of people on the Bureau and headed to the Bureau, so I think that policy was good. What may be missing is the co-operation of local self-government, regional co-operation and this preparation is useful when we come into a situation to use EU funds. I think it's my advice to all the presidents of local self-government, not only to be looked at by their own adversaries, but to work together, because that's also how important it is for us in view of the period that awaits us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62640	The word comes from MP Zeljko Tomic, a three-minute parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62641	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I found inspiration in the news for my question, of course. Despite strictly controlled and censored media in Serbia, it was not possible to see what the state of Albania had proposed and what it had done. Unfortunately, I will have to quote Albania's Prime Minister Sali Berisha, when I can't already make my own prime minister, which is that on October 20th, an agreement was reached on Albania's joint consular representation of Kosovo and Albania abroad. The state of Serbia has not reached out to this occasion and I expect to hear a comment on the news. Among other things, Albanian Prime Minister Berisha says -- Albanians should feel the same way in Tirana and Pristina. Berisha says similar practices should also be followed in areas such as customs, culture and education. I place a special accent on customs and ask what about the joint representation of customs spoken so much by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Further Berisha to contribute to the reduction of bureaucracy and the approximation of the two sister states. The state of Serbia is silent. There's no protest note. Be quiet as the watered all and Serbian President Boris Tadic and you as prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic. Does this mean that Kosovo customs, which would be installed on Brnjak and Jarinj, I say, would represent Sali Berisha or perhaps represent you, Mr Cvetkovic? That's a question for you, why wasn't there a diplomatic note? Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia keep silent when two, quote, sister states are this way solidarity for a while? You can't answer what that report you've been talking about today means for future Serbs in northern Kosovo and in Kosovo at all and for us all? My question is: why does the state of Serbia keep quiet about this open provocation? We couldn't read it in the big headlines, we had to look for it on the sites hidden, somewhere in secret. Your media is worse than ever in Serbia. You have to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62642	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62643	The government of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise the independent state of Kosovo and therefore all its activities that try to show that it has statehood for us are nothing and we do not accept them. So if you're interested in what my position is, that's my position and that's the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you think we're going to fight with weapons for that position, we won't, but we're going to fight with dialogue and try to solve this problem. It is the way the government of the Republic of Serbia sees as the only possible solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62644	The word has a folk MP, Zeljko Tomic, three minutes, an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62645	Mr. Cvetkovic, with all due respect, I don't trust you. You said you do not recognise Kosovo's independence. This tells me the prime minister, the only one I remember for my life and reading something from history, which was not at KIM and is at least obliged to support Serbs in Kosovo, who today are in the most difficult situation perhaps in Serbia's history. How can I ask you – do you feel the same way in Belgrade and Kosovo Mitrovica? If Albania's goal, as Berisha said -- is to make Albanians feel the same in Pristina and Tirana, I want you to feel the same in Belgrade and Kosovo Mitrovica, Belgrade and Prizren, Belgrade and Peqa. But you're not in a situation. You didn't come there and this government doesn't trust the Serbs from Kosovo. The only thing that's somewhat good about this general accident is that even Serbs from Kosovo don't trust this government. That's very good. But I have to ask, again, is it possible for the state of Serbia to keep quiet, to the most open of possible provocations? The state of Albania claims that Kosovo and Albania are sister states. We're witnessing that I'm not going far into the digression, that Serbia has no sister state, not to say brotherly. All will find some allies, only this country, under your authority, has lost its allies, even in the fight for an independent Kosovo. You are not able to achieve the unity of seven and a half million citizens, that we all say in a voice Kosovo is Serbia, just so that every European people would claim that this is happening to him, what is happening to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62646	Do any of the members of the government want to comment, since there was no additional question? No, I don't. ) In that case, the word has a folk letter by Marina Toman, a three-minute parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62647	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question. I want you to answer me specifically - what are the specific reasons why the government, like your colleagues from other countries, did not adopt a draft law on the crisis transition taxation of foreign banks operating in our country? In fact, this tax was adopted by Spain, before it was Hungary, and a few days ago, Slovakia adopted it. Otherwise, to remind you, the Slovak Parliament unanimously adopted this. The Slovak government expects the tax to be an annual inflow of around 83m euros. I want you to answer me specifically – why did the government not propose such a law? Why is the government protecting Western banks, and why is the government denying revenue of several tens of millions of euros? While citizens, businesses and the state itself face catastrophic economic problems, banks are the ones who do positive business in times of crisis. For the first six months of 2011, 25 banks operating on the Serbian market made a profit of 17.8 billion dinars, which is 17% more than in 2010. Also, I would like to ask another question – why did the Government not ask when the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services was adopted and why did it not ask banks to impose more penalties? EU banks operating in Serbia are operating at the highest interest rates. The interest rates in Serbia are double-digit. The average interest rate in Serbia is 12%, in France 3%, and in Germany 8%. Just to remind you, more than 100,000 citizens or every tenth bank debtor can't settle in time on the basis of borrowing. I want you to answer me specifically – whose interests this government protects, does it protect the interests of citizens, does it protect the interests of Western banks, and does it protect the interests of the economy and in what way?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62648	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62649	Dear People's MPs, the issue of the banking system is relatively complex and much more complex than it looks to you at first glance. The banking system is essentially a kind of infrastructure of the entire economic system and any activity that you are now taking in the banking system, which differs from what is common and standard practice, must be well studied because it can cause major side effects. I don't want to talk about these countries that you mentioned. You can see for yourself that the profits of all banks are about 17 billion, that's 170m euros. In any case, it's not some dramatic figure to tax it over the rest of the taxes. But that's not the point of my answer. Due to the complexity of the especially banking system, besides the Government that is way ahead of fiscal policy, monetary policy is run by the National Bank and these two policies together form the economic policy of a single state. You can't run a different one now than the other policy and the question of interest rate levels is a question that is certainly very professional and serious, but it's impossible for the government to adopt a decree or at least I think as an economist, that interest rates can't be prevented by lowering them to a lower level, because that's not the point. We are scrambling a free market economy. As a result, interest rates can only bring down increased competition in the system. What we insist on is that we have as much dispersion as possible of different banks, different unrelated persons, who would now, through competition, allow for more favourable conditions, for our interest rate to fall through competition. I have to tell you that our interest rate is mainly related to the movements of courses that represent, let me say, one pillar, and the other pillar, the so-called. At the reference rate and the possibilities for the excess of the funds the bank has to place in the National Bank's paper. So far, due to high domestic inflation, the reference rate has been quite high. It was 13.5%, 14%, and that alone affected the level of interest rates, because what economists would say is an opportunite cost. So when you have a relatively stable course and you have an opportune cost high, then you can't borrow at lower rates. Of course, with inflation calming down, whose testimony we have in the last few months, practically after April, so here's to the day today, we have the first drop in inflation at the annual level, but at the same time we have a drop in the reference interest rate, which will continue to fall. With the drop in the reference rate at low inflation and the stability of the course, we will have opportunities to see that the interest rates offered by the economy will also be significantly lower than those on the market. I used to say that we provide for certain groups, small and medium-sized enterprises, and more favourable conditions. So, what I'm saying is that this is a little bit more professional than a political debate, and it's better not to lead it to parliament, than to make a circle of experts, where people who know it much better than I do would come to talk about what it would mean to introduce a new tax, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62650	It's Marina Toman's national emissary. Additional question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62651	I agree that this is a very complex topic, but you have not explained it to me, or have you not answered my question – is the government planning to introduce a tax on extra profits from Western banks? So I specifically asked for it. That's what your colleagues in other countries did. Your colleagues, just by announcing this tax, have somehow sent a signal and a message to the banks, that they will introduce that tax unless they reduce interest rates. So the question of interest rates is a very complex question, but on the other hand, the government and how it can affect it. But first of all, this is a political issue, not an economic question -- how much does the government have the courage to engage in taxation in Western banks? Just to remind you of a statement from the finance minister, say, Canada, South Africa, Britain and Australia. That statement of theirs depicts your behavior. So, they said -- political courage is needed for a global economic recovery, because they are the biggest obstacles to this recovery of politics. Both the biggest obstacles in this country to Serbia's economic recovery are the political, that is, lack of political courage from the government. I also want to remind you that it is not true that the reference rate should monitor inflation, take an example of Great Britain, where the reference rate is less than inflation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62652	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62653	I wouldn't discuss the reference rate, it's a really clean question of monetary policy. I think you're making a deep mistake if you think you can scare someone with a decree and that's why they're cutting prices. I think it may be possible on a very short deadline, but we have to make one market economy where there will be market forces that will lead to such low rates. As for some of our colleagues, yes, some have, but some have not. I wouldn't want to speak individually about the effects of those who did it, especially those who did it before. I don't think that's correct. Let's wait, we'll already have an analysis to see if these effects were as positive as I think you think they are, or maybe they were a little different. I'm saying, I don't want them here, but they're my colleagues, so I'm giving someone advice now. If you ask me if I have the courage - I have no problem with courage. In my opinion, there's only one professional question, would the most professional people in this country give advice that this should be done? If they gave advice, I'd do it in 15 seconds, because I'm not afraid at all. I just think that one such activity would have very negative effects, but that's my expert opinion. If people who know better tell me that's not true, I'd do it anyway. And just in the end, let me tell you, because you're politicizing it through a guy -- these are Western banks, these are eastern banks, or I don't know which ones. All the banks that are here are formed, not as branches of some banks, but formed as domestic banks. In our banking system, we have domestic banks, whose majority owners are with some foreigners, and the codecs are ours. All banks are companies that are registered under our regulations and operate according to our regulations. There's no difference in that context, and neither could you make a distinction, so now you're going to introduce this yes, not this. That's absolutely not possible. If you enter such arbitration, you bring complete chaos into the system, and then I think it's much, much greater damage than benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62654	The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman. Two minutes of comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62655	I am sure that the professional public would not mind, even on the contrary, saying in terms of a huge budget deficit -- go ahead, bravo government, tax the banks freely, because still a few-tenths of millions of euros is not much. However, you still avoided a concrete answer today. As I asked you during the budget rebalancing debate, which criteria are being handled by the Government when the Development Fund approved seven million euros in the loan to the "Delata agrara" with an interest rate of 2.5 to 4.5%? So it's really an interest rate that only privileged companies get in this country, and it's Mr. Miskovic's companies, which as we can see today, again avoid tax evasion. I mean, the state doesn't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62656	The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Three minutes, MP question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62657	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my questions will be directed to the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, Mr. Minister here. We know this is a very productive year for cereals. We also know that in this weather sense, a very difficult year with a lot of droughts. So, in the climatic sense, she did give birth. I am sure that this has been greatly influenced by the many measures the ministry has taken, and one of them is 14,000 dinars per hectare for good country preparation, planting quality seeds and garbage. In that sense, we received a huge amount of grain in balance, at prices that were entirely the stock prices of other European countries. My question is – will such conditions, which are practically built, created, also affect the reduction, i.e. the formation of the price of bread? This is very important for Serbian citizens, given that every production, including agricultural, is based on financial balances, means how much we have invested. The state here invested, about, by budget, about 52% of the input on the sowing of these land surfaces, and we got a good breed. Will this affect the reduction, that is, the formation of the price of bread in the coming period?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62658	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62659	As for wheat, it is definitely over two million tonnes in this economic year, although less surfaces than in 2009, and for sowing in 2010. Rod was bigger because we had a very successful year. I would remind you that somewhere in the second half of March of the month, a very significant collection of the price of bread was announced. During that period, which producers, which merchants, trade chains and other commercial companies announced through public information funds to make bread loafs of the type "Sava", is a basic loaf of bread, or folk bread, as popularly said, could be even 70 dinars. At that moment, the government of the Republic of Serbia had a clear answer. I'll remind you that we had a very significant export of wheat at that time. By mid-March, exports were about 500 thousand tonnes. That's when we banned the export of wheat. We've left open the possibility of continued exporting flour because it's important for our mill industry. At that point, we brought one measure that caused a lot of controversy amongst the professional circles, among economists. We've made a decision as the Government that the bread of the Sava type can't be more expensive than 55 dinars. Then I said, and now I am convinced, and time has shown it, that all the competition in Serbia can take place below that price and that we have thus prevented any open or hidden association in trade or among producers, I mean the bakery industry, from leading to a kind of abuse that should be paid by citizens of Serbia. After that, as I said, we met with a very good harvest. The government of the Republic of Serbia came out with an offer to agricultural producers and bought 100,000 tonnes of wheat. I will also underline here that we bought the wheat from registered agricultural holdings, therefore, from individual agricultural producers and one small part from cooperatives, and we paid 20 dinars at that time. That price was neither at that time nor today, therefore, those farmers who decided to sell wheat have earned the best of what anyone has earned from harvest to this day. At this point, we have more than enough wheat to secure the stability of the market, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to enable us to bring one new measure, namely to novelize this price that we have established at 55 dinars, so that the final decision by the Government to make bread of the type "Sava", so national bread in Serbia cannot be more expensive than 44 dinars. This price allows for a completely fair and normal competition. No one in the chain of production, and I also think about wheat producers, the mill industry, the bakery industry, is without profit, but on the contrary, has a solid profit, so the government has resolutely protected the standard of citizens and those who are the worst asset. I think we've done one very good thing, that we've protected both the legitimate business interests of the mill and the baker's industry. We'll do it when other life supplies are involved. So there are no two same cases and we will apply adequate measures. I think that the government has full capacity and that it has a very clear idea of what we should do with other vital foods and that we will prevent any increase in the price of basic life supplies that is not based on real economic factors and that we will apply all the measures that the law gives us to do this thing, because that way we will protect the interests of citizens. It's my opinion that we're on a good track and that macroeconomic indicators give a very clear picture of how things stand. I will also remind you that inflation that was very important in the second half of 2010 and in the first half of 2011, which was primarily generated by high food prices and rising food prices, has been completely stopped in the last few months. I expect such a trend to continue. It will have very good repercusions not only for the standard of citizens, but for the general economic situation of things in the country. I think it's very clear and completely unequivocal that we can seduce a legitimate order in this area that is vitally important.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62660	Does MP Miroslav Marinkovic want to ask an additional question? Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62661	My next question is – what is this strategy and character of agrarian policy, the Ministry of Agriculture, in terms of employment over 1,500 agronoms, agricultural engineers, and what will be the benefit of farmers?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62662	Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62663	In Serbia, two million people are engaged in agriculture. We are the country that has the highest percentage of the agricultural population in the total population – almost 800,000 families live from agriculture. Approximately, half of these holdings have agriculture as an exclusive activity and the other half as an additional, overweight or additional source of income. It is indisputable that we have a agricultural budget that is far less than the budget of European countries, but also from countries in our environment, except for some. We will, of course, deal with this issue at the border of the country's economic and fiscal opportunities and will conduct a very open and important debate when the budget is on the agenda. But I think we have one previous question. There are certain shortcomings in our agriculture, shortcomings that we can remove with little money or no money. On the other hand, facing the fact that there were 2,000 unemployed agricultural engineers in Serbia, I think we did a very good thing that we opened up these people to hire them, and to hire them at the most important job and for agriculture and one of the most important jobs for the whole country, which is that they provide notices, advice, assistance for 300-400 thousand agricultural holdings. Those who make the best money in agriculture are just the agricultural producers who most use the help of experts, such as that, in other spheres. The most successful businessmen and industrialists use the help of experts the most. So, on Monday, these people are going to start working, because we're going to sign contracts with them on Saturday, and I'm absolutely sure that in 2012, we're going to have a very significant shift, that people are going to get not only technical notices and consultations on what they could fix in agricultural production, but they're going to get all the first-hand notices, and right now, about what state measures are at their disposal, what loans they can take, what subsidies are available to them, both in the fastest and best way to make that money available to the state. On the other hand, for the first time as a state, we will get a clear picture of what is going on in our agriculture, how subsidies are used, at which price farmers sell their goods to traders and to the processing industry, who within what time pays, who is what they owe. We will have a clear picture and many shadows and dark fields will be removed. It is also the job of these advisers, to give you both MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia a clear picture of what the real state of life is in our agriculture today. So we hire all those who want to follow the rules that we set, which are just and logical, to get into this business. It has 1,571 areas and each of these areas will be covered by one consultant, agronomists. At this point, 86 more of these areas remain vacant, and there are 286 of those agricultural engineers who passed the exams, and I expect them to sign up to go from their place of residence to another place. Because it is quite obvious that this number of agricultural engineers in Belgrade can't find a job, not even the number of agricultural engineers in Novi Sad, either, but they can find it in Babusnica, the Shop and anyone who wants to work will get a chance to work. Therefore, no one who shows desire and will to enter into this arrangement with the state and with farmers will remain deprived and will not be without the opportunity to show how much he can help himself and others. I think this is one very big thing and I look forward to seeing what the effects will be. I will be very happy and happy to share it very quickly with you and on the Committee on Agriculture, and also here, at one of the plenary sessions of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62664	National MP Miroslav Marinkovic, two minutes of comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62665	I just want to thank the Minister for this exhaustive information that we have received, I think that they are of great importance, not to encourage producers, but to show a new spirit and relationship in agriculture, where this traditional way of farming represents a good basis with education, proper counselling, and gives every household the opportunity to develop practically through family business ways to achieve their incomes that are sufficient and able to live as well as possible. I thank you one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62666	The word has a People's MP Mirko Munjic, three minutes, a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62667	My question will be addressed to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, referring to the Ministry of Defence. Mr Cvetkovic, there could not have been a single visit to Mr Sutanovac's Parliament, the defence minister, and that he, in terms of our military industry, was not full of his mouth and all the bells, claimed that, thanks to the military reform, there would be an expansion of the defence industry, then, that Serbia is a leader in the Balkans, then that Serbia is a guarantee of regional peace, that Serbia will attract numerous investors in this area, and that there will be a real expansion in this area. This is all what Mr. Sutanovac here claimed in Parliament. What's our reality? Chačak, from which I come, Valjevo, Kragujevac, Užice, Luciani, Kruševac, Trstenik and other cities, once large and powerful centres of the dedicated industry, are now brought to the brink of destruction, by this government and by this ministry. Our dedicated industry is poor, our workers are out of work, these cities are also poor. Mr. Cvetkovic, my question – how many countries do they owe to the dedicated industry? Of course, you can't answer exactly, but I'm interested in what the government is doing specifically to reduce these debts to the dedicated industry. Then, Mr. Cvetkovic, why is SDPR a favoured company, when it comes to exporting military equipment and weapons? Why is it allowed for SDPR to form more companies in the country and abroad, although it would not be right and it could not, which is, I don't know if you know "Ather Plus", "Agro Plus", "Tomorrow", "Belon", "Jugoinport", "Mont Podgorica" etc.? I'd like you to answer these questions for me. On the other hand, I just want to say that Serbia's intention is literally thrown on its knees, but what's important is that all legal changes in Serbia's defence and military fields, as well as laws relating to the country's security and international co-operation, are passed at the time of Mr Sutanovac's term of office with only one goal – Serbia should be left without a real defence system and to join NATO. So what does the government do about this and do you know these facts about the SDPR?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62668	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62669	You have asked a series of questions that many are specific and deserve to be answered, and in this context we will prepare answers to these questions. I'd just like to comment on what you said when you said it was once big centres and manufacturers, that's true, but from your discussion, someone might think that they were big and huge producers four years ago, and when this government came, they suddenly fell to their knees. The truth, unfortunately, is quite the opposite of that. They were big and significant producers, but not four years ago, but 24 years ago. Then they fell on their knees and they've been on their knees for 20 years and after that 20 years they slowly rise from those knees. Of course, not all have managed to rise, of course, we are not satisfied with it, especially that some who have difficulties of which many may be insurmountable, unless there is a serious reorganisation, but one thing is certain, that the sector has made a positive shift precisely in the mandate of this government. When it comes directly to issues for specific SDPR companies, etc., you will be given an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. written.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62670	National MP Mirko Munjic, do you want three minutes of additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62671	Mr. Cvetkovic, if I can only comment on what you said, that they were once good companies, that they fell to their knees, and now they rise up – do they rise by taking their SDPR from them 1.5% commission or hacks? I assume you know about that fact. The Ministry of Defence, Mr. Cvetkovic, is a record player in affairs sometimes now. Let's just remember the panic affair, the satellite affairs, the Stans affair, the Pohulek affair, the Farmaology affair, the "protection of apartments" affair, the affair of disagreements with the General Staff, the affair over the business of suspected offshore companies, the assignments of apartments to those who want to be photographed on television, and those who do not want early retirement, then the affair of bringing foreign senior officers to the defence ministry, Mr. Cvetkovic, then the accommodation of a NATO officer on the same floor where the defence minister is, not to mention the affairs published by Wikilix. Is it true, Mr. Cvetkovic, that in the government, some of the affairs I mentioned were meant to be and that this affair was suddenly taken down by order of Mr. Sutanovec? Is it in your knowledge, and you need to know because you're the one who's in charge, what's this about, and why it's been taken off the government? I expected you to tell us a little bit more about the SDPR, to tell us a little bit more why this company was given permission to be capable of producing weapons, even though it's only a commercial company, that it can also be engaged in the production of military equipment, to tell us a little bit more about these 3% that the SDPR takes to the dedicated industry, so it lifts it from its knees, that our dedicated industry. So to tell us, Mr. Cvetkovic, does this company and the Ministry of Defense have a problem with nepotism? You know Mr. Sutanovac has appointed his best man as assistant, for resources. Does this nepotism perhaps bother business and SDPR and the Ministry of Defence? But what I want to ask you, so, what are these affairs taken from the government? Is that in your knowledge?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62672	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62673	I don't know if any affair is off. These affairs you mentioned about some of them I haven't even heard of, most of those I've heard and which have marked significantly some moment, especially our financial ones, they happened before this government. This government was in a situation where it had to cover financially what had happened. I'm very sorry, to tell you the truth. I'd like to say about the SDPR and why, because it turns out from your discussion that it's a private company that is now using some special circumstances. In fact, it's a state-owned company that's completely under our control, and the logic is that the state-owned company is involved in exporting, especially with weapons. This is especially important to tell you when, given that arms exports are one of the very sensitive activities, under strict monitoring and international community, including us. The granting of export licences is also under a special regime, so in fact, private business in that area is in some cases lucrative as well as drug dealing. That's why the state prefers to have that segment under control. And that's why, of course, the SDPR is our partner, but it's also our company that's in our full possession. If further information is needed about these companies that formed it, the reasons, etc., as I said, we will give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62674	National MP Mirko Munjic, commentary, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62675	Thank you. It would be good if we got it in writing. Mr. Cvetkovic, I know that SDPR is not a private company, but in many situations it acts just as if it were private. Mr. Cvetkovic, it is your defence minister who implements and continues the policy launched by Boris Tadic when he was the defence minister. Your defence minister is now the one who, along with Tadic, has drastically reduced the number, that is, the state of the army in Serbia. Your defence minister is the one who brings the army of Serbia and the entire dedicated industry to the beggar stick. Your defence minister, Mr Sutanovac, is the one who is so persistently, systematically and all the time bringing Serbia into a situation that its complete defence depends on a foreign factor. He's the one who, together, I said a little while ago, with some people from the Department of Defense, really ruins that ministry. He is the one who is systematically and systematically trying to kill a myth about the Serb army, which has lived for many years, and the legend of the Serb army. At the same time, Mr. Cvetkovic, many in this ministry, as well as in your entire government, are more often dragging their hands into the state register than in their pockets. I claim that many of these pockets have so far not been needed during the term of office of this government. But, Mr. Cvetkovic, when the time comes to collect the bills, then there'll be a lot of things. Then everyone will have to answer in their domain for what he did. I think that's quite clear to you, and if that time, I'd say, was approaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62676	I remind the MPs that the manner of address during the parliamentary questions, regardless of any calls for infringements of the Rules of Procedure and no replicas, commits to the treatment that is prescribed, without insults, without deception and without falseness, especially if it is about information that can be made public and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I really ask that we do not try to demean the institution of the National Assembly or the session in which the parliamentary questions are asked by trying to color language to insult people who are not present. That calls for a warning. MP Srdjan Milivojevic, three minutes, MP question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62677	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 1999, the SRS has been in power in this country, KIM has not been in the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia. A Kumanian treaty has been signed, our army and the police have left KIM, the SRS has left our people for mercy and mercy. I only have one question to ask the Minister of the Interior. How many organized crime groups have registered to KIM, how many are in the White Paper of Organized Crime? If any of these data and these answers are a state secret, let me, as a member of the KIM Committee and as a deputy member of the Security Committee, be delivered to me in writing. Since we're going to have a special session on KIM, and by respecting and respecting your time, I'm going to give up further questions, because I think we're going to talk about all the other topics that are important for the KIM situation at that session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-27-0.u62678	Does anyone want to answer? No, I don't. The MPs who are registered do not want to exercise their right. Thank you. In that case, exhausting a list of speakers, or MPs who wanted to use their right and ask a parliamentary question in time from 16.00 to 19.00, and on the last Thursday of the month, therefore, by exhausting the list of interested MPs, we end work for today. I thank all participants in the session, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and members of the government, present ministers, for meeting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly established obligations to answer parliamentary questions Thursdays 16:00 to 1900 hours. For today we are finishing our work, and the Assembly continues work on Tuesday 1st November at 10.00 hours.
