ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54935	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 88 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly established conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would also remind you that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, the Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2), which says in its first position that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the chairman of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues from the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, so that he needs these notices and an explanation to fulfil the function of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, shall have the right to perform at the meeting of the National Assembly in one address, up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting. The first registered speaker is MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask for an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I want to say that I am very pleased that our government did a good job yesterday in Luxembourg and that it received very favourable funds, a credit arrangement from the World Bank, for our small and medium-sized enterprises and, as I heard today from the Vice-President of the Government, that it was actually an expression of the wishes of our businessmen that these funds provided today at commercial banks simply affect the poor competitiveness of our economy in the world. Since it is a loan from the Republic of Serbia, of course the citizens will repay the loan. Among those citizens who will repay the loan are Sandzak citizens. In an explanation of the Deputy Prime Minister, I heard that precisely our biggest exporters would be users of this loan. I ask the government - since the Sandzak citizens will also return as taxpayers this loan, did the government talk to our businessmen, since it made it easier for them and took this loan, made it easier for them, did it motivate them to open up some of their future facilities in Novi Pazar and Sandzak, since it was said that this loan would enable future employment and facilitate their exports in the future?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54937	I thank Mr. Omeragic. The word is from MP Milos Aligrudic, head of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54938	This is a question for the government, i.e. Mirko Cvetkovic, in the end and Boris Tadic. I don't know if we can ask him questions, if not certainly Cvetkovic's going. So it's about this so-called. Negotiations with the Albanian side in Kosovo, where negotiator Borko Stefanovic is authorised. The other day, he pleased us with his appearance in Pristina by sitting at the negotiating table with the Albanian side, washing Serbia's flag, and, on the other hand, proudly looking at the flag of Albania with the so-called whale. an independent state of Kosovo. This has undermined all government decisions so far and the position of the National Assembly on how the state of Serbia and its officials have to behave and treat when it comes to the relations between Serbia and political representatives of Kosovo Albanians. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia refuses to attend all meetings of international, all round tables where representatives of the so-called ". Albanian authorities find themselves called Kosovo, suggesting an independent state, or under an Albanian flag, without markings, of course, Unmika or in the worst case of Eulexa. So Borko Stefanovic brought down that barrier, not on his own behalf, because it did not go there, but on behalf of the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now the question is, who is crazy here, we who listen to your explanations to try to protect Serbia's territorial integrity, or are you crazy that you've been doing this to smart people for three years and killing us in a healthy brain? That's what you three years of doing to us uninterrupted and what it shows, after all, in practice that it's true. Why does this show up in practice? Because you can't get out of the way that was drawn and drawn for you. You can't stray from the path Brussels has set for you. You can wash your head and explain to the citizens of Serbia that your moves are rational, cellular, to lead integrity protection, to smart as much as you want, and then when you see for yourself that you have exaggerated, then launch a new wisdom, also anti-constitutional and abnormal, and this is the story of the division of Kosovo that Ivica Dacic released the day before. Yesterday, the newspaper said, of course, that wonderful thought that it was the only logical solution and that he was the smartest among all, only the only one who dared to show that he was smart. That's what you do. The Kosovo division story has no real basis. Even if the Constitution of Serbia allows it which, of course, does not allow, it is political and tactically Sunflower. It has nothing to do with the brain. Do you expect that ever the Albanian side, which experiences Borko Stefanovic, the authorised negotiator of Serbia in negotiations to ask God what, comes and sits under their flag, will ever talk to them about any division of anything in Kosovo, let alone the so-called. Kosovo's national territory. What's on your mind? That's absolutely not possible. You've stepped down from state policy, and fiercely, you've agreed to all the blackmails of Brussels and your moves have ruined anything that could be ruined in the last three years. It is very important to point out this because of Serbia's further fate and the further holders of the state government, so that citizens know what you've brought them to and what they're taking, because you will certainly, after the next elections that are soon to come, fail because with such a policy, you cannot go far. For all this time, you have left the people at the mercy of hunger, because you are incompetent, nor do you have the desire or ambition to lead any economic policy because this is all going to hell. So the question for you is very simple and the only one I know that you cannot answer right now because you are not able, and that is – when will you finally go to the citizens and tell them the truth? The truth isn't what Ivica Dacic said yesterday. It's anti-constitutional and abnormal. It is true that you have ruined everything, sold Kosovo and de facto recognised its independence. That's what you tell the citizens, that people know what they're up to with your authorities, so when they add it together with the economic situation they live in, then you'll see how you'll have fun.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54939	The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly of Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54940	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will request a notice from the government, as well as from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, both as Prime Minister and as Minister of Finance. I'm interested in what data is accurate, statistical, about growth and GDP declines back a few years. Is it true that the data that are still official or that data that has been heard in the public over the past few days and which have been given and established at a scientific meeting of economists? It's very important that we get the right information about what the data is. Why? Is this about falsifying Serbia's economic reality? It is very important to know whether there has been a statistical error, when the growth of the social product has been established over the past few years, in continuity, and whether the decline of the social gross product in 2009 was only 3.1%? According to new data, GDP growth back several years was significantly lower than the one presented, and the decline was at least double what we were officially told in 2009. The question arises if in this way the public learns about the very important facts that are important to real life in Serbia, can we at all believe any information that comes from some official sources? These data show why there is some kind of dysharmony between official optimism and real pessimistic life. As we talk about overcoming the crisis, on the other hand, we have a situation where unemployment is growing from day to day, that we have budget deficits, that we have a trade and current balance deficit, that we have a pre-indebted state, and obviously we don't have that GDP growth as presented to us, and that far greater economic downturn than we're told. Is this about anesthetising the public domestically, is this about wanting to show some foreign institutions that Serbia is much more economically stable than it is? Is this about an evil intention or just a simple mistake? The Republic Bureau of Statistics did not go out and did not publicly declare it. Unfortunately, it is common in Serbia. Unfortunately, there is no transparent work in Serbia or politicians or institutions, so there is no transparent work of such a significant institution as the Republic Statistics Institute. Serbia is least required to get anesthesia regarding its economy. In Serbia, we need to get a clear diagnosis of the state of the Serbian economy. When we look at what the Republic Statistics Institute is doing, how it clearly manipulates data, then it's clear why it comes across such great resistance when it's asked to build up and build a circuit statistical office in Vojvodina. Is that how he wants to cover another reality and anaesthetize the public in the province?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54941	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic I would like to talk about, and finally to ask, concerns our workers who are on temporary work abroad, or perform investment works abroad. A good part of the companies that perform investment work abroad today works in Arab countries affected by these riots and work in a very difficult environment, often accompanied by police forces, military forces, the danger of terrorist attacks is quite large and these citizens are undoubtedly threatened and expected to understand at least their country's understanding of them when it comes to some of their basic, existential problems. What's the occasion specifically why I called today? The fact that the National Bank has, in its opinion since March 2011, made their profits, which it has received in exchange for years since the time of the Tito Yugoslavia in our country, made it possible for banks to pay those receipts in dinars. Their dissatisfaction is enormous, the move is very harmful because the fact is that it may have some effect on the interbank exchange market, perhaps the offer is slightly higher, but the question is whether these companies that perform their work abroad will be opening up future branches, paying off and earning abroad, and we will be left without these foreign exchange revenues. In addition, according to them, I think we have had one incorrect treatment since 2010, because by 2010, when it comes to income tax, citizens were fully equal with citizens who work in Serbia, so the untaxable part of the income was the same. There was a difference by 2010 between the part which is untaxable for citizens in Serbia, for citizens who work abroad, after 2010, this is even, and this tax rate and the allocations compared to their earnings have increased significantly, and thus their earnings have decreased. So, the specific question is for the NBS, and for God's sake Mr. Dulic, because he proposed a law a few months ago that helps the construction industry and our builders abroad are part of this construction industry, they have great prospects, employment opportunities are great. Unfortunately, they couldn't find the prey in our country. So, the specific question was intended to change the Foreign Exchange Act, which is why at the moment, when we have a draft law on the protection of users of financial services, let banks, without the consent of those whose earnings are, decide whether to pay their profits in dinars or in foreign exchanges. Of course they always opt for dinars and it's to the detriment of those citizens working abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54943	Thank you, Mr. Antic. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question to the government of the Republic of Serbia and its even formal president, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, and the question is how will he react to his deputy, First Vice-President, Ivica Dacic, who openly propagates the idea of dividing Kosovo as the only realistic solution reportedly. You two months ago reconstructed the government of the Republic of Serbia, and on that occasion you rushed Mladjan Dinkic out of that government allegedly for making statements, making public statements that are contrary to the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. I am now interested in whether you will, on the same principle, take the edge of Dacic or what is not allowed to Mladjan Dinkic is now allowed to Mr. Ivica Dacic? Mr Dacic said - that partitioning Kosovo is the only real solution. He says it's my opinion, although it doesn't like Belgrade or Pristina either, but I'm a realist politician and I don't see another solution. Mr. Dacic must know that it is one reality and that the other is legitimacy and legality. It also raises the question of whether crimes and ethnic cleansing can create a reality that is ready to be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and ready to accept by Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dacic. The division of KIM is only the second term to give up one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and no country in the world has voluntarily given up a single inch of its territory, let alone so much as KIM or that part of KIMkoji is under Ibra. If today's partition of Kosovo Dacic represents a reality, who is guaranteed that tomorrow as a reality you will not represent the division of Vojvodina, that day or month after that you will not say that the division of the Raška area is a reality, in two or three years maybe the division of the Shumadija will be a reality for you, and as long as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Cvetkovic thinks they allow such statements? He who today is ready to give up the Imperial city of Prizren, who is ready to give up Pristina, who is ready to give up Strpca, be sure to give up Sudotica, Novi Pazar or any other city in Serbia tomorrow. Of course, Mr Dacic didn't explain who we're going to share with, in which way we're going to share, and we need to hear how we're going to share it with the Roast Patriarchy, how we're going to divide the Holy Archangels, how we're going to divide the Virgins, how we're going to divide the High Decans and all the other monasteries and, of course, if we're going to share the monasteries on KIM today, does that mean that tomorrow we're going to share the Black River, the Djurdjeve Studice, the Studenica, the Zic or any other medieval monastery that belongs to the Serbian people? What is incomparably worse, is that this is not the first time, this is just a sequel, the first to bring up this idea, which passed without consequences, was Borislav Stevanovic, the head of Serbia's negotiating team, who did so about 15 days ago, and he then said that Kosovo's division is one of the topics Belgrade is ready to discuss and that the assembly resolution on Kosovo gives enough space for it. I don't think anyone who's in good sense and in good conscience can say that the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives enough space to tell a story about the division of its territory and to give up part of the territory. We have repeatedly asked the question – when will you finally publish the alleged strategy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because Borko Stefanovic as the head of the delegation says the story of the division is possible, although he will never recognise Kosovo's independence. If you won't admit it, then why are you even talking about it? And on the other hand, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, former Minister of the Government of Kosovo Mr Bogdanovic, says that partitioning Kosovo is not part of the Republika Srpska government platform.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54945	Time. We're continuing our work. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54946	Dear fellow Members of the People, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I have one question, or I request a notice from Minister Oliver Dulic, Minister for Environmental Protection, so I would like to present a brief introduction, which is why I am asking for this question and notice, which I am about to ask. We are also witnessing that in addition to major campaigns, primarily media, which are more like political, party campaigns at public services, the interest of citizens is not respected in terms of protecting the environment of the conditions in which citizens live. Recently, we had the opportunity to see that in a small municipality of Cicevic, citizens rebelled and massed on the streets against a project behind which the current leadership of the Municipality of Cicevic was concerned, and against the interests of most Serbian citizens. We of the New Serbia Parliament Club suspect that also in a small municipality in western Serbia, in the heart of western Serbia, in Koseric, which is an oasis of clean air and healthy food production, something similar is happening and that behind the backs of the citizens of Koseric municipality is working against them and their health, as well as all citizens of Koseric and their children. So I ask Mr Oliver Dulic the following question – did the cement factory "Titan", Cementar Kosjeric, apply for a study on environmental impact assessment for the use of municipal waste, as alternative fuel in the cement production process? To explain to both Serbian citizens and all fellow MPs what this is about, the citizens of Kosjeric municipality are justifiably concerned and in fear of whether what has been going to happen for years, it is that as alternative fuel in cement production at the Titan Municipality Kosjeric will also be used by tires brought from all over Serbia, not to say from the EU. Why do they suspect that something behind the hill is going against the interest of the citizens of Koseric? At this point we are talking about the municipality of Koserić and the citizens of Koserić, the question is who will have all the damage from environmental pollution, not only the citizens of Koserić municipality, but also the wider regions. In my explanation, I say that at a session on 29 April, at the session So Kosjeric, Director of Cementara Kosjeric said that Cementara had submitted a request for environmental impact assessment if this alternative fuel was used. Since the citizens of Kosjerić are smart and intelligent, they did not find this request on the site of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Environmental Protection Kosjerić, so they reasonly suspect that the current management of the SO is in cahoots with the management of Cementara and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as soon as this requirement is not on the site of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and the deadline of 30 days runs from 29 April and expires on 29 May, when the session So Kosjerić would have to be scheduled and that all the committees, on behalf of the citizens, Kosjerić, declare whether they support this or not. Therefore, I repeat the question to Mr. Dulic to answer immediately, I will not say that the panic in Koseric municipality, but the citizens, justified by me, are very concerned. He raises the question again, and I stress, did the cement factory "Titan", Cementara Kosjeric, apply for a study on environmental impact assessment for the use of municipal waste as an alternative fuel in the cement production process? I think Mr. Dulic, without respecting the 15-day deadline he has, should be as the environment minister to inform the citizens of Koseric immediately tomorrow, and all the Serbian public and the National Assembly of what is exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54947	I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Sasa Dujovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Đukić Dejanović, on the principle search of the 6th item of the agenda and the joint single search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 7, 8 and 10 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Predrag Marković, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society and Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs, invited the sittings to attend and: Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mirko Stefanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dragan Marković, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Slavica Jelac, Director of the Office of the Finance, Mr Dejan Dasanjnević, Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance and Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Duvan Law (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government, you have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that the National Assembly has accepted a proposal to shorten the debate under this bill, so according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are two hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of the parliamentary group, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia has 46 minutes and 48 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – 34 minutes and 12 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia, G 17 plus and Together for Shumadija - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 12 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 12 minutes; the SPS - JS - nine minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - seven minutes and 12 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - five minutes and 24 seconds; the Embassy group of minorities - four minutes and 12 seconds and the PUPS - three minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak each and every two and a half minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, according to this agenda point, MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP, Milan Lapcevic, DSS – Dr Vojislav Kostunica and the SRS MP, Milorad Buha. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Mr Bozidar Djelic has a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54948	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes in the National Assembly, they defend the substantially large system laws, there were many. Today there is a law before you whose nature is technical. In essence, it's only about harmonising statistical treatment, harmonising the price, i.e. Excise, and given that the government's strategy was adopted and following the proposal of the Republic Statistics Institute, we have a transition from the price growth rate to the new index and that is the consumer price index. Given that the tobacco law provided for a harmonisation with the first paragraph of compensation to be collected for the RS budget, it is now simply harmonising the termological law with that strategy of our statistics. Dear Vice President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words about something that will be discussed a little later, because it's one of these ratifications, but the one I've been assigned to defend on behalf of the Government in this esteemed House. It is a ratification of the Double Taxation avoidance Agreement with Indonesia. Let me just say two things. This is that Indonesia is the most human country in the world of Muslim religion, traditional and good relations we have, and generally with different countries having a good agreement on avoiding double taxation is very important. Then it's clear to the investors. We, as a country that does not have high and direct taxes, are mostly benefiting from these agreements. So it's in the interest of investment and a good element in further developing our bilateral relations with Indonesia. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54949	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. Does the Financial Committee's rapporteur, MP Branko Ljiljak, want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54950	Ladies and gentlemen of Serbia, we have a really small law ahead of us, only two members, but from the point of view of the SRS we consider it unnecessary, irrational, dysfunctional and unnecessary at this time in legal form. Why? Because it is a statistical change of data, which has so far been done by the state body – the Republic Statistics Institute, which has been collecting data and publishing statistics on the basis of legal regulation – the increase in prices to a small extent. Instead, the statistics now had a consumer price index. It's about the same category, just another legal name, another statistical term, but basically the same thing. What about the SRS aspect unnecessarily? It is unnecessary that we, not only through this law, but through a few laws so far, and now I will list them: the Budget Act, which also had provisions on this change, the Budgetary System Act, the Tight Interest Act, now we have this law, and who knows how much more the law will be, and it is the same financial data statistically, with the elements of the financial category, and unnecessary in this form. What do you need? It is necessary by one law of financial character to amend all provisions in all laws. This is legally possible and it is legally the most correct, complete and comprehensive. Why don't you do it? There is no one in this government to look at the whole of this and propose such a law that changes all the legal rules, which is common legal practice and one of the legal rules. Now look, don't worry about this and not just about this, but what are the financial consequences of this kind of work. We're gonna lose one day, we're gonna lose another day at the amendment debate, and we lost about half a day or a day at the Budget Law, then one day of the Financial System Act, then one day at the Tight Interest Act, etc. The question is how many of these laws will appear in practice. Then we have about a month and a bunch of legal regulations that we've passed and that's unnecessary in the legal system and we've complicated the situation, we've multiplied legal regulations, and so on, and we've lost time, we've lost money, we've lost finance. We had a few dozen, maybe hundreds of millions. You see how much you don't care about spending state resources. Instead of one regulation to regulate it, you exchanged all these laws through one legal regulation of financial character, you will spend the funds instead of investing those funds in premiums for the financing of tobacco production. If you had invested those tens of millions of dinars and given them to tobacco producers, today they would have far more tobacco producers, because they would be stimulated for that production. What else is important about this law? It's important that we talk in fact about one financial category. The increase in prices to a little bit is now categorized in financial terms, in a statistical sense in a completely different legal way and we'll get the situation the same way we had before these changes, we've lost time. Instead of being clear on January 1st, it is now May 17th, until it enters force for about six months. What about the other laws, where are they also talking about this category? Who knows when we're gonna change and are we gonna change? It speaks only of the character of this authority, of carelessness, etc. What matters from the aspect of the SRS is the next situation. We're talking about the ephemeral data, whether one name or another, is basically the same financial and statistical category, and we're not talking about the essence. What's the point? The bottom line is the financial data that comes from tobacco production, or fiscal data from all of this and production itself, let's see where we are in the production sense. Compared to the years after World War II, the 1960s and 1970s, when more than 100,000 households grew tobacco and mostly lived from tobacco production and processing in one part of tobacco, we now reduced it to about 6,000 households. Out of 20,000 people maybe one 10,000 seasons deals with this production, compared to 400-500 thousand people living directly from the production of tobacco in the 1960s and 1970s. Where is this production? Where are these people who've been doing this production? Where'd they go? They disappeared in a monopolized market. Especially after the sale of large processors and cigarette manufacturers in 2006-2007, when we sold the market. What is most devastating, which no country does, was done by the Republic of Serbia and the current government at that time. Not only did we sell naked factories, processors and cigarette manufacturers, but we sold the market, and that is evident from all those procedures that will come today. When this assembly changed the Excise Act sometime before the end of the year, then we just saw what it means to monopolize the market, what it means to sell the market and what problems the current government had and then the finance minister to persuade cigarette manufacturers to increase excise duties. What does cigarette manufacturers and tobacco processors have to do with excise duties? Accizes are the state's income in all systems. Why would it bother the producers? But there are certain contractual obligations, contractual clauses that prevent the state from changing excise duties, changing anything on a market called - the production and processing of cigarettes. Such clauses are incorporated into those contracts. Why are these sales contracts of the tobacco industry not transparent, as you say, exposed to the public, to know what this is about? What have we sold? Minister Djelic, these contracts need to be transparent, as you stress, brought out in public, to see what we have all sold. More destructive is politics, what I said, in the financial sphere. About a year's worth of tobacco production in the country brings revenue to the state, producers, distributors, buyers and producers about 120 billion dinars. More than 65% of this amount is the state's income, based on various basics, through taxes, through taxes and contributions collected in the production process, in the process of processing and producing cigarettes, as well as other revenues from the state. So 65% on the 120, then you see what the sum is. Only 772 billion dinars are revenue based on excise duties from the transport and transfer of tobacco, i.e. the production and transport of cigarettes. Thirty percent is the income of producers and distributors and only 5% is the producer's participation. Participation in the GDP of the tobacco industry, precisely because of high excise duties, taxes and other charges paid in the process of transport, is about 3.5%. If this data is combined with the participation of producers, direct farmers who produce tobacco, it's all about between 0.3 and 0.4% in GDP. Then we just see how small the tobacco producer's involvement is, just because the state has no stimuli, no premium, no...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54951	Thank you. Time's up. The word has an authorised representative. Now he's an authorised representative, and you're answering for a word? I called, so you didn't pick up, but here's your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54952	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, is on the agenda today to discuss amendments to the tobacco law, which is subject to a shortened procedure. I'm going to see to the shortest possible extent that I can narrow this debate down and point to the many illogicalities that my colleague Buha has made, and they're related to the whole tobacco industry story in our country. So the tobacco industry was once a major producer and industry that filled the Republic of Serbia's budget with a far higher percentage than it does today. The tobacco production, a colleague of Bhuha said, was involved in some 100,000 households, and today barely a few thousand. There used to be tobacco production in Serbia of about 20,000 tonnes, and today it's barely 1,000 tonnes, so 20 times less. In the 1990s, the budget of the Republic of Serbia was charged even at 18-25% in the 1990s, depending on the year, on the production and processing of tobacco. Serbia and the tobacco industry, primarily the tobacco industry in Nis, but also in Vranj, Gjilan and other places that had the tobacco industry, produced and exported more tobacco and cigarettes, twice as much as it imported before the privatisations that took place in 2003. The production of tobacco in the 1990s was about 20,000 tonnes high, and 60% of the raw tobacco was then exported to Serbia and, on that basis, had high revenues, both according to producers and revenues in the Serbian budget, as taxes and excise duties were also charged. Today, tobacco production has practically died in Serbia. This is measured by some sizes of barely 1,000 tons or 20 times less than it used to be. That's what the data says, of course, that's confidential, and if you think it's not true, you're going to bring out the ones that are. Anyway, it's far less than it used to be. The production took place organised, funded, primarily by tobacco processors Nis and other factories and was touched, so that manufacturers had pre-financed production, had contracted sales, had agreed prices at which to sell tobacco. Practically, many people have lived since the production and processing of tobacco, especially in southeastern Serbia. In addition, the Serbian tobacco industry, over 80% of DIN produced cigarettes and exported twice as much as the import of cigarettes. Participation in the production of cigarettes before privatisation, DIN only produced more than 1100 tonnes of cigarettes per month. At that time, participation in the Serbian market was 65-75% of DIN alone. Today it's less than 40%, and the monthly processing is about 700 tons. The number of employees in DIN prior to privatisation was around 2300, today it is barely 700. So these are all data and parameters based on which certain conclusions can be made about what happened to one of the most important strategic products for each country. Tobacco and tobacco products are excise products, fiscal products that fill the country's budget to a good extent. In this respect, each country should take care of how it will organise the production, how it will place these products and how much money will be poured into the country's budget on this basis. The budget of the 1990s from the tobacco industry, therefore from tobacco production and from the processing of tobacco, by selling finished products, ranged to as much as 26%. These are data from the Chamber of Commerce's tobacco committee. Today, as counterpart Buha said, excise revenues and the tobacco industry are somewhere around 70 billion dinars, which is about 10% of the Republic of Serbia's total budget, therefore, significantly less. What happened on the tobacco market? It happened that the consumption was probably not reduced, but there was a redistribution in production and consumption, so today around 40-45% of the demand for cigarettes and tobacco products is being placed on the Serbian market from domestic factories, and the rest is being imported. So, in a nominal sense, Serbia has reduced revenues from tobacco and tobacco products and, on the other hand, the additional damage is that we also lost to the tobacco production plan, i.e. the employment of people who were in the growing, producing and processing of tobacco, so the damage is double. The only benefit that came in 2003 is a one-time income in the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, neither the state of Serbia nor the environment in which the factories were sold has benefited significantly. I will remind you that the city of Nis, not only the city of Nis, but all local self-government, based on the sale of enterprises in their territory, is getting 5% of the price achieved. The city of Nis received 20m euros on this basis, which it used to develop local infrastructure. However, much more has been lost, along with a large number of jobs, a large income has been lost from the tobacco industry itself. The tobacco industry, while owned by the state, sponsored many sports clubs, cultural events, helped develop the city. It is estimated that around 10m euros per year, the city of Nis received from DIN on various grounds. It's far less today. All that is produced and the profits in the tobacco industry are unfortunately going to new owners, so it is time that after eight years of selling major tobacco factories in Serbia consider what these are effects of selling strategic enterprises and whether the state had to change its ownership structure. I understand that it is necessary to go to a competition and that the state should not own everything, but those companies and those companies that are chargers of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which employ a large number of people and deal with strategic production, in any case, should either be in part or in the majority ownership of the state. It is clear that this sale, from more angles, was more damage than the benefit of the state of Serbia. In that sense, of course, we should also talk, but in this economy we should behave as it has been for the past 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54953	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a single search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. I give my word to MP Miroslav Markevic, but he is not in the hall. The second on the list is MP Zoran Nikolic, who is also not in the hall. He has the word Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54954	The passing of such laws and their changes and additions absolutely do not improve the situation in this area, and their final result is the damage the state suffers. With this bill, Serbia gets nothing, money will not come into the budget. These laws and other manipulations allow tycoons and large traders to deal with imports of raw tobacco, preventing and preventing producers in Serbia from producing larger quantities and earning profits. The government of the Republic of Serbia is doing the opposite. The amendments and additions to the Law on Tobacco, which took place in 2007, were to the detriment of domestic producers. Apparently, the government is trying to convince Serbian citizens that, through changes and additions, citizens will live better. However, this is absolutely not happening in practice. Serbia was one of the countries that produced large quantities of raw tobacco, a country that had its own factories, a country that had qualified and valuable workers working in these factories, which produced large quantities of cigarettes and large quantities of cigarettes were exported and sold on the foreign market and the state benefited from all this. These frequent amendments and additions to the law, not only of the tobacco law but also of other laws, confirm that those who write laws and prepare to present them to parliament are not professional, are not capable and do not know how to propose a law that will last for a long period of time. In practice, the laws proposed by the government and adopted by this parliament by the majority of the coalition votes occur that after the entry into force, they cannot liven up and there are changes and additions to the law. We say we are ready to look up to the EU. Let's see how many laws have been passed since 2000 and how many laws have been passed in a month, two or three had to be amended and completed. It's a mirror and it's a confirmation of whether you're willing to look up to the right states, the laws that these countries bring or are just ready to write bill proposals like some rules used to be when it was the Law of Joint Work. Many laws and suggestions resemble rules on hunting and fishing or on wine and brandy. Now it turns out he's a good minister only if he proposes a large number of laws. It says – we have passed about 2,000 laws from 2000 to today. What's the value of these laws? Not at all. In application they can't live, the benefits of the citizens don't have, and the citizens are given false promises, they're wrong, and especially when the election campaign takes place, then you see the government running, the media talking about how they're going to live better in Serbia. We bring regulations, there is the EU, and in fact the EU is turning Serbia's ears and from that EU, as you can see in the laws – compliance with EU standards, there is no speech. A large number of laws are written to you by trainees, a large number of laws experience rapid changes and additions. No law from 2000 to today has been applied without having seen more changes and additions. That is the case with this draft tobacco law that has no effectiveness and has no use for citizens of Serbia, who besides other tobacco. They're supposed to benefit. Also when you propose the Law on tobacco, you do not suggest the adoption of legislation on the production of helde, barley, sheep as healthy food, such as the area of Zlatar, Zlatibor, Javor, Prepolje, Pribo, Ivanjice, Sjenica, Požega, Mine, Milanovac and not to list. Bring laws on these products too so Serbia has another brand besides raspberries and several other products. In this, the government will be able to show its results and prove that citizens chose the right government and the right government. This is how it comes out -- let's just see, let's write these booklets as much as possible, have fun in this assembly, and it turns out that the government has made 2,000 laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54955	Seven minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been made by the People's MP Mrs. Zlata Djeric, but she's not here. Mr. Milan Lapčević is here, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54956	Let's continue the story where we left off. In this law, only one member is changed to define that the group is said to change prices by "the rate of growth to a small" in the words "the consumer price index" because the Statistics Act has changed. It prescribes that the dinar amount for compensation – for registration in the register of tobacco producers, the register of wholesale tobacco products, the importer of tobacco, processed tobacco, or tobacco products, etc., which are required to pay in the budget fund by each pack of cigarettes for which they apply for the issue of control stamps – is harmonised with the rate of growth of prices to a small, i.e. now with the consumer price index. After privatising the Nis industry, a more comprehensive analysis of what is the state, or what is local self-government, and the city, should be made and what is lost. The data is accurate and they say the following. Before the privatisation of the tobacco industry, the monthly production of cigarettes was 1,100 tonnes, with 2,350 workers working in the tobacco industry in Nis. In the sale of the main thesis, it was necessary to find a strategic partner, a strong global company that will be a partner in production, i.e. to be a new owner, as this is the case for new brands, on the one hand, should be increased production and employment of new people, and on the other hand new markets are obtained, because this big world brand, the new owner will make it possible to expand capacity, new brands, larger exports, etc. The following happened from the corner of the city: instead of the 1,100 tonnes of cigarette production, the monthly production is about 700 tonnes per month; the number of workers is about 700, so three times less than it was in 2003, before privatisation, and the participation in the cigarette market was about 65 to 75%, today's participation in the tobacco industry Nis is less than 45%. Given that 2,000 tonnes are smoked monthly in Serbia, it is clear that the rest that is not produced in the tobacco industry in Nis and part of the tobacco industry in Vranj imports. In the past, cigarette imports, therefore, prior to privatisation of major factories, major tobacco processors and cigarette manufacturers, are about 20% to 30% on an annual basis. Today, imports are twice as high. The tobacco industry Nis, speaking from the corner of local self-government, sponsored many sports clubs, many cultural events, equipment of health institutions, schools, kindergartens, etc. All major capital projects and facilities built in Nis and the environment could not have been done at all without the aid of the Duvan industry. Of course, today's new owner, the strategic partner of the great Philip Morris, has no obligation on it, nor does it, of course. The obligation in the contract concluded between the state and the new owner was to purchase 50% of raw tobacco on the domestic market for the processing and production of cigarettes in the Duvanska Industry in Nis. It is true that the negligible quantities of tobacco are bought on the domestic market and that this is significantly below 50%, and the answer to that is that there are allegedly not enough quality tobacco on our market, so a larger quantity and a higher percentage of 50, as provided for in the contract, must be imported, which, of course, is the domestic economy, therefore, the tobacco producer and the processing industry are further affected. Prior to privatisation, a large number of agricultural households based their existence on tobacco production. He had production financing, tobacco planting, treatment, all credited by the Duvan industry, and after matured all the quantities produced by the producers were necessarily bought at pre-known prices. This closes one cycle that agricultural producers did not have needs, nor entered any risks, but rather received money in advance for production, when they finished production sold it at known prices and thus had one sure existence working in tobacco production. Several dozen of the ransom stations were on the territory of the entire Southeast Serbia, from Bujanovac, Vladic's Han, Leskovec, Nis, Pirote, Prokuplje, Žitkovec, Kruševac and not to count further, which were engaged in contracting production with the manufacturer and buying that tobacco, then, by further processing it and, most importantly, by large quantities of raw tobacco, Serbia once exported to foreign markets and, on that basis, re-income, not only to its producers, but also to its own budget. By privatising large factories and the production of raw tobacco itself, and its processing is much less than it was before that privatisation. So, also on this basis, Serbia's economy was generally affected, and at the expense of the so-called "Serb economy". globalisation and bringing large strategic partners, whose only goal is to take the market and to raise as many profits as possible. According to some announcements, and as workers were moving from 2003 to today, the Philip Morris projections are that the Nis tobacco industry, which, I said, was a major producer, will remain only a distribution centre, and that complete production or most of the production will be based in Romania, and that Serbia will be an even bigger importer of finished products than it is today. The indirect benefit the city had should not be spoken of. Sometimes Nis had almost every sport of top-notch clubs, first-class sportsmen in all possible sports. Today, you do not have any sport or sports club competing in the highest rank, for the simple reason that there is no or practically no low economy that can finance sports clubs, because without money and without strong economy you cannot have quality clubs, quality sport, quality culture, quality city events, or faster development of a local self-government, which is, of course, from the point of view of local self-government, great damage to the city and the whole environment. It is interesting that the content of contractual obligations and the contract made between the state and Philip Morris has almost never met the public, so what Philip Morris had to do with the city, it was a financial commitment to finance projects proposed by local self-government worth 1m euros a year, which is certainly far less than it was in the pre-privitation period. All in all, taking into account and how much tobacco production was, how many people were involved in this production, how much revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget were based on the production and processing of tobacco before the privatisation of Serbia's major tobacco factories, if compared to today's data, it is obvious that no benefits, direct long-term benefits for the state of Serbia practically do not exist. How much the state lost really needed to make quality analyses and studies, in order to conclude whether it was really necessary and useful to privatise an important product in this way, which largely fills the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is likely to come to a conclusion today why the Serbian budget has such a deficit and why the Serbian state has to enter, only to close budget gaps, into large loans to commercial banks, which are too expensive, which cannot be justified in any way. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54957	The word is from Ambassador Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54958	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Republic Statistics Institute, as of 1 January 2011, suspended the publication of price growth data to a small extent and switched to publication of the consumer price index. Since so far there are taxes, taxes, excise duties, i.e. Their amounts in terms of tobacco or tobacco products, as well as other tobacco business, are in line with the retail price index, it is now necessary to amend the law in the sense that the harmonisation of certain taxes, taxis, tobacco excise duty is carried out with the consumer price index. Of course, these changes in the law have to be implemented, but it is not logical that this is done by emergency procedure, because it has been more than six months since it was known that the Republic Statistics Institute, in accordance with its statistical system development strategy, will suspend the publication of price growth data to a small extent, starting on 1 January 2011 and will go beyond the publication of the consumer price index. Did the six months the minister slept or was he not informed of the change in statistics? This amendment, which will be adopted, will neither result in citizens nor the economy of additional costs, nor will this change encourage someone to deal with tobacco business, nor will it deter anyone from doing this job. This amendment to the law concerns the finance minister more than the minister of agriculture. As for the Minister of Agriculture and all other ministers in the government, who only declare themselves to be a strategic branch of the economy, Serbian agriculture and farmers are in an ever worse position. The agricultural budget is the smallest in 2011 over the past ten years. Listening to the state's ministers and presidents, when they talk about agriculture, the impression is that Serbia's agriculture has never been better and that agriculture is experiencing a sharp rise and bloom. It's partly true, growing young onions, salads, but it's all far from the development of villages and agriculture. We have little money for agriculture, as I said, for at least the last ten years, and that's a little irregularly distributed. Is this the kind of budget that the government wants on us agriculture to be a leading business branch? Serbia is a country where agriculture could live, especially today when food in the world is increasingly wanted. More and more people are turning to agriculture, because poor privatisation has run out of work, so agriculture is their only source of income. Serbia's agriculture should be a leading business branch. We cannot compete with the West in the sale of industrial products, white techniques, car sales, but we can compete in food production and we can also be the leader in the region. Serbia cannot live on tourism, such as Croatia. Although Croatia is a tourist country, Croatia spends three times as much money on agriculture as Serbia, although it has three times less processed areas. A Croatian peasant in Slavonia received from his country 450 euros in subsidy per hectare of sunflowers, and a farmer in Vojvodina 134 per hectare. The problem of Serbian agriculture is, above all, the Serbian government, which does not have a strategy for the development of agriculture. The government doesn't know what they want, there's no clear priorities in agriculture. Agriculture is left to the verse, no agricultural production is directed, no development plan. Therefore, fellow MPs, once there is no milk in the country, so there is no oil, so there is no wheat and no flour, there is a collection of potatoes, a set of tomatoes, and everything happens in a country where, according to the Serbian government, agriculture is the most important business branch. The stock fund has fallen drastically, so there won't be meat tomorrow either. Instead of exporting processed products from agriculture, we export raw materials, corn, wheat, sugar beet. The state helps farm subsidies per hectare and the throat of cattle. These subsidies are given for political reasons to win voters, not to direct and increase agricultural production. Subsidies per hectare and throat do not promote higher production and better quality of agricultural products. So the problem of agriculture is, above all, Serbia's government's concern for agricultural production and the lack of a strategy in agriculture with clear priorities. As for the amendments to the tobacco law, it will pass because, as the minister said, it is only a technical change.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54959	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54960	Mr. Novakovic, how much time is left? (President: twenty-six and a half minutes. That's enough. Mr. Djelic, I'm glad you're a representative of this agenda point, just to remind you that this point is called the law amending the tobacco law. Mr. Djelic, this law does not discuss the indexation of excises, as you have begun your presentation. This point is not connected to one of the following ratifications of the treaty with Indonesia, so you boast so much that you participated in the agreement. Mr. Djelic, it's a coincidence that you entered this assembly today, so for your sake and for the sake of the public, that I return you to what is the subject of today's debate. I have to draw your attention that this is not a topic that can be called collokious indexation or coordination, this is a much more serious topic because today, for the fifth or sixth time in the course of the year, you're picking up the results that you started to sow even in 2007. Since 2007, our statistics have also been working on the consumer price index. Why is it working? Why did she leave in December 2010 this method of determining inflation? Because someone has concluded that the time has come for the change of methodology to change the picture of what life is like in the Republic of Serbia. Now let me make you a link to this bill. This proposal for a law provides for several members of the tobacco law, where the harmonisation of registration fees for the relevant registers – the Register of producers, the Register of importers, the Register of retail traders and the Register of wholesale trade in tobacco processing and this budget fund "Duvanski dinar" – is coordinated because from today on, some things have changed. It's in line with the rise in prices to a little bit, but now we're moving on to the consumer price index. Now, for the sake of the public, let's explain it a little bit. Is it just a statistical, technical change, as Mr Djelic said? We expected to talk about locksmiths, metalsmiths, blacksmiths, but it's not exactly a technical change, it's a little deeper that change, Mr. Djelic. But we're going in a row, for the public's sake. It's gonna take people to figure out what they can do in politics and what power can do when they take all the leverage to do it, but they can't fix the picture of the citizens. Maybe it's a little trivial, given that this is a story of registration fees, because those registers are run at the tobacco administration, so it's known exactly how many registered and manufacturers, and wholesalers, and retailers and importers. You know what that fee is. For every retail facility, it was 8,000, so it's in sync. They say it's not a big deal, so let's hit the ones doing the job. However, we must go back to the methodology of our reality. If it is considered that this popular most massive price of cigarettes is 100 dinars, respected citizens to know, 78 dinars take state and through excises, both through taxes and through everything. There's about 22 dinars left. There is no Lapčević to explain to him, 19 dinars go to Philip Morris, and three dinars go to all those in traffic. No wonder, then, in a 20-ton oil tank, five tons of oil is poured, and the rest is bunkered and filled with cigarettes. It's no wonder. Why isn't it a miracle? So 78 dinars per pack of cigarettes is taken. Where there are heavy burdens it's very stimulating for organized crime, and this whole section is very interesting. Mr. Djelic, since I know you're following everything, as Djindjic said to you – you're a wonder of man, you're holding a laptop in your seat and 16 jobs at the same time, do you know how your statistics register or register or manage what we're talking about today? Let's say, personal household consumption, monthly average, official report by the Republic Statistics Institute, and first it says total, then food and non-alcoholic beverages, the second category is alcoholic beverages, tobacco and narcotics. When our statistics run the drug traffic data or it's just so statistical, let's put it in, that's what this division is called, that group, that classification. You see, these keep records of narcotics. You're probably working with Bia, they have accurate data on it, or with Darko Saric. Who are you working with? I'll tell you about poverty later, how it came about your statistics. Prices have at least three means of accounting: through the index prices to a small, through the index of cost of life and through the index of consumer prices. So far, these first two systems have been present in our system, practically until 31. 12. 2010 They were based, first of all, on the classification of goods and services. They had some of their own coverage, they had their own sources of weight calculation, the methodology also had its own way of calculating the average price and index. What was the basic purpose of this index price for a little bit? Listen, the main purpose was to measure inflation, and when this inflation is measured, it is necessary to re-valorate monetary amounts through it, to reconcile pensions, salaries, social and other contributions and it has been used as a deflator for national accounts. How do you do that? Three to ten prices for each product, 15 cities of the Republic of Serbia and 606 products and services, and basically for weighting, which is the structure of retail traffic, 10,000 weights is a ceiling, so it is classified by goods and services, so the main source of weightings were retail sales and household consumption polls. Now let's put that aside. Now something new has come, based on Eurostat methodology and standards. Now we're going to measure it in a different way, so this is said to be the consumer price index, the average change in fixed basket prices and services that the household buys to meet its needs is measured. So now the building material is out, he's no longer interesting. Now you'll see why this whole operation is going on. Only because of controlled prices in the jurisdiction of the state, because their impact in the consumer price index is far lower than in the retail price index and in the cost of life index. Let's move on, and one and the other method and this third one is based on the type of index, it's some Lespero system. What is the basic purpose of this system - the consumer price index? Inflation is measured and used as a deflator of final household consumption. In those first two systems, the lack of our statistics was that we didn't know what those two systems were for. What does it want to achieve? Do you just measure inflation? Whether to protect value through revaluation or whether it was a classification of consumption according to purpose – personal, common, budgetary, state, etc.? No, now it's the statistical method that throws out all the prices that are regulated by the state. Their influence, their weight is far less. Let's say, with an oil derivative of 480 and some weights, it comes down to 360 and some weight. Mangoons, people. Statistics, you know, our Dick. It's not the stats' fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54961	Mr. Krassic, I apologize. (Zoran Krasic: I am talking about consumer prices. ) Do you allow me to interrupt and greet the guests at the gallery? (Zoran Krasic: Yes, please. What time did they escape? We will continue to work very quickly after we greet the guests at the gallery. Part of today's sessions from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly are followed by a group of students of the Faculty of Law from Novi Sad, and that: Borka Dobrnjak, Maja Kovačević, Tanja Milanović, Mila Drljević, Sladjana Zekić, Nemanja Sabljić, Natalija Kočić, Milica Vezinović, Nikola Lazić, Nemanja Knezevic, Nemanja Enjelković, Branka Macevic, Marko Rakar, Jelena Vajagić, Nemanja Ninković, Sara Kučlar, Marija Đukanović, Nemanja Galić, Nemanja Simurdić, Tamara Jovanović, Edmir Bartošinović, Milomir Vuković, Miloš Grujić, Marijana Kozoma, Suzana Topić, Sneza Urosević, Aleksandar Janjin, Aleksandar Janjin, Jovan Ognjeninović, Sandra Ognjanović, Sandra, Sandra, Milošić, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Tipad, Tipad, Tipad, Tipad, Tipad. Welcome to the House of the National Assembly, to your house.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54962	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. My colleagues, you're practically attending criminal law class. Let's move on. So this method implies, Mr. Djelic, at your time when you were studying this was not studied, listen now to this well, to perform the classification of goods and services of individual consumption by purpose, in one custom way, not to complicate things. All goods and services have a total of 12 levels, 39 groups and 93 classes. Class level, lowest level at which consumer price index is published. That's sort of classy, that's what I have to tell you, here's how it's sorted out by these divisions -- the first group is food and non-alcoholic drinks. Other food, alcoholic beverages and tobacco. Now you've got those narcotics out here, Mr. Djelic. The third group is clothing and shoes. Fourth apartment, water, electricity, gas and other fuels. Fifth furniture, furniture, running maintenance. Six health care. Seven transports. Eight comms. Nine recreations and a culture. Ten educations. Eleven restaurants and hotels. Twelve other goods and services. Probably within the framework of other goods and services, we can also settle this fee for your registration. Because she has some level, too, and she's pulling the right number of weights. Probably, as with you guitar and musical instruments, there was once one, now five out of 10,000. Now let's move on. It is, first of all, about goods and services of individual consumption. This is a completely changed logic in statistics. What's the consequence of this changed logic in statistics? It is now a very important survey on household consumption. It's no longer an interesting transport of goods and services. The poll almost does not have to be conducted when it comes to the consumer price index. Of course, then we get monthly and annual growth reports, i.e. the change in the consumer price index. In this bill, this harmonisation of this fee takes place twice a year. Then the question arises – how will statistics be published twice a year, when in its methodology there is no half-yearly reporting? Will it go through a chain index or anything? It's not a dispute, it's very easy for statistics to change their methodology. But let's move on, let's see what the difference is and what does it get like to change this methodology? Of course, in the case of registration fees, the influence of this change in law is insignificant. But this is a unique opportunity to talk about changing methodology, which is also very important for measuring inflation and the cost of living, and everyday life, not pictures of everyday life. The picture of daily life through the media under the control of Gilas, Shaper, Krstic, and these media moguls is also more beautiful and interesting. What does your National Bank say about changing this system? Not what she said yesterday, when she was under the attack of economists who caught statistics that she was messing with the GDP assessment, now the NBS praises statistics. I took this from a period when it was not commendable, but it refers to the consumer price index. Now look what's going on. The price share of regulated products is significantly lower than in the retail index and is only 35%. Now watch what that means in practice. For example, at consumer prices, the share of oil derivatives will be 4.7%, and the price has been 9.5% so far. So they're mathematically reducing inflation. Mathematically, they reduce all data that would indicate the disastrous consequences of the Dosmanian government from October 5th to today. Look, with electricity, citizens, the impact was 7.2 in the price index for a little bit, now according to the new system it's going to be 6.4. It means all the regulated prices, the prices under state control, the prices determined by the state, their impact on inflation is reduced, a fake picture is being taken and they are trying to avoid their responsibility, because now the number of weights that were in that second methodology is no longer going. Let's move on. It shows – municipal services. In the index, the price to a small extent participated with 8.4% in the inflation rate. In consumer prices, it will be only 2.7%. You see, they've reduced it three times. This is how the statistical consequences of poor government are amortised. It's a criminal act. I don't know what this Miljko Radisavljevic is waiting for. He's got gendarmes, he's got cavalry, he's got river police. He can freely pick up passports, the entire government, to pick up passports and resolve the issue, as this issue depends on the qualification of the crimes committed by the government. If the price index is applied to a little bit, then it's incomparably greater damage they've done. If a consumer price index is applied, it is reduced and qualifications are lost. Then it's no longer a serious crime, but it could even be a crime. They'd be looking forward to it. That's why I told you - this is a guilty hour. So we draw the line. Of course, I am fully aware of the effects of this discussion, that Miljko Radisavljevic must not do so. The need is indicated here, because there's systemic crime here, a system crime that aims to change life, a picture of life, a sense of people. That's what we're up against today. That's why it was very interesting for Mr. Djelic to tell the indexation of excise duty in tobacco. It's not the subject of this law. It's regulated by the Excise Act. There's a simple registration fee here. But this is an opportunity to see, to destroy this methodology and to show citizens how to create and how to shape what we call reality. Then it's no wonder, with this kind of politics, it's only apathy and depression. You can't see the way out of this kind of organization, you can't see the way out. So, Mr. Djelic, if you were able to learn two things today, that it was on the agenda of the law amending the law on tobacco, not excises, it's a great success, epochalan. Second thing, we'll talk about Indonesia this afternoon. Now all we're talking about is registration fees and their alignment. Please throw out the word "indexion" not in Serbian, but in "coordination". With what? With prices rising to a little, not a consumer price index. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54963	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54964	I just want to say a few elements. First, the picture that some MPs have shown about the situation on the tobacco market is simply not compatible with what the facts are. I'll give you a few figures for the MPs and our citizens. In the last ten years alone, contrary to what has been said, the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's tobacco-based budget have increased from 19 billion dinars to 60 billion dinars, from 2005 to 2010. Knowing that, which is good, the gradual consumption of tobacco is decreasing in our country, especially in sensitive groups of young people, but we are still one of the countries where, unfortunately, too many people consume tobacco. At the same time, we heard absolutely incorrect figures. As for the production of raw tobacco, it is at 10,240 tonnes last year. Since 20,000 tons of cigarettes were produced, we see that we are not at all far from the 50% that were declared in the law that I was defending in 2003, the first tobacco law. Contrary to what was said, the export of cigarettes primarily to the region, but also to EU countries, represented 2,000 tonnes, i.e. 10% in total production. We know that three key producers in our country, and privatisation has allowed number one, number two and number three in the world to enter our market, have plans to further increase that exports, which is good. We have put in some protests with them because, for example, the Republic of Croatia has long not respected certain provisions of the CEFTA agreement and protected its market in an inappropriate way, as recognised in the European Commission report last year. We have a parallel struggle that as few people consume tobacco, on the one hand, and on the other hand that those who deal with this profession have as much money as possible. I had a chance ten days ago to be in Athens, where several producers of raw tobacco were present, some from Vranj, others from Vojvodina and, of course, we will try to strengthen that dam. It is no secret that because of the difficulties in the budget, there was not as much money as it was supposed to be to bridge that production, but it is certain that since it employs no number of people, any increase in the agrarian budget should also be monitored by increasing those fees. A few more elements. First, as far as harmonisation is concerned, you're right, but only as far as excise duties are concerned, it's already been done with previous amendments and additions to the Excise Act. It's already in line with the new criterion. This time I would just like to confirm that all of this is for the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products, i.e. special fees so-called. A smoking dinar for our health care. Instead of harmonising with the growth rates of prices to a small extent, we move to the consumer price index. I would just like to say a few more words about some of the topics that have been evoked here, although it is certain that the last Thursday will certainly be more stories about it when the prime minister and ministers answer the questions of MPs. A significant agreement with the European Investment Bank was signed yesterday in Luxembourg. He does not burden the budget, but provides 500m euros in guarantees for the investment of the Fiat. This confirms after President Tadic Turin's visit and his work inspection two weeks ago. In financial terms, it confirms that the investment takes place according to the planned dynamics. In essence, the Republic of Serbia, in line with the agreement reached with that large producer, provides a guarantee worth 200m euros, the Fiat provides a 100m-euro guarantee and at the expense of a joint venture where Fiat has 70%, the Republic of Serbia 30%, the Italian specialising export insurance agency SACE will provide a 200m-euro guarantee. Of course, it is expected that, on the basis of production of some 200 to 300,000 vehicles on an annual basis, the joint venture provides, through exports expected at a level that will not be less than 1.3 billion euros per year, for the company to return the loan, of course. Part two, i.e. The first tranche signed yesterday, of 150m euros, and the second tranche of 100m euros was agreed for next year, is almost entirely turned towards the needs of our domestic exporters. That arrangement was prepared in very close cooperation with them. From Simpa in Vranj, Valyanica copper and aluminum in Sevojn, the conditor's industry "Pionir" and "Jaffe", all the way to "Tiger" in Piroth and many other exporters, to the question, you who are successful, what you need to export more, the answer was that according to the regulation of our financial system and their available capital, especially at the moment of crisis, a limiting factor is an investment credit that enables capacity expansion, a placement of goods abroad. As a result, a large part of the 250m euros has actually been established for the first hundred net exporters of the Republic of Serbia, with the exception of multinational companies present on our market. In other words, this arrangement is not for Philip Morris, not for US Steel, but for the companies that I mentioned and many others that are among the first hundred net exporters from our country. This allows us, instead of having credits with business banks for three to five years with interest rates and up to 10% expressed in euro, to come up with funds that will go up to 12 years with four years of credits and interest, which is 4-5% on an annual basis. In this way they receive funds to build factories, expand the range and fight the same financial conditions against their regional and European competition. I can say that this arrangement is expected, with a lot of patience, by our most qualitative companies and this is one concrete way that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I hope very much in this esteemed home when the moment comes and for the ratification of the agreement reached, to support Serbia's transition to a new export-based growth model. At the same time, statistics were evoked, I will not enter into details, I can only say that in an agreement reached at the government meeting of the Republic of Serbia last week, a meeting of statisticians with the National Bank of Serbia was followed, where statistics were found to be in line with European standards. At the same time, I am authorized by our government, and I am going to do so today, to send a memo to Statistics, where they will inform us of how long it has arrived in harmonising its work with European standards, what is predicted with further statistics concerning not only gross domestic product but also other very important aggregates. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as this crisis has shown, it is not possible to lead an economic policy and not actually go further into European integration unless we have predictable and reliable statistics. Our statistics have made a lot of progress, that doesn't mean they can't make any further progress. We see on the case and some countries in the neighborhood that when you lose trust in statistics, trust is lost and partners are lost. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia will make additional efforts to respect not only the usual European standards, but also the country that is ahead of them. In fact, one of our proposals, which has been supported by the entire Western Balkans and which we have presented recently at meetings with the EU, is that we should also enter the so-called system. the European half-year that Europe has set for itself and that, if they are sustainable, we also get financial guarantees for going out to the capital market. It's all dry, but actually behind that possibility there are hundreds of millions of euros in savings for our budget and therefore for our citizens, but it's not possible if Serbia doesn't have reliable and credible statistics at all times. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54965	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Whether they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to the 7-10th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION CONVENTION, THE CONTRACTION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC PUBLIC RELATION ON THE COURSE OF THE DOCUAGE OF THE DOCUMENTS, THE SERVEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCROCRATIC PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE SECURITATION OF THE COURSE OF THE DEPLOMATE AND OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE SER AND JAPANY OF THE VIS (COMMUNAL UNITED SUBLICIAL SUBMITTION OF THE CONCUTION OF THE CONCUTION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE CONCTION OF THE CONCUTION OF THE CONCUTION OF THE CONCTION OF THE RETUTION OF THE CONCTION OF THE CONCTION OF THE CONCTION OF THE CONCTION. From the 7th to the 10th agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs, with a total number of MPs, and this: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia has one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia, G17 plus and Together for Shumadija - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for a word, with a order of MPs, within the meaning of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent themselves on these agenda points: DSS-Vojislav Kostunica National MP Milica Vojic Markovic, SRS MP Dejan Mirovic. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Area, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of Double Taxation against Income Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on visa waiver. Do the representatives of no-one's proposings want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the rapporteurs of the committees in charge, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54966	I really don't know who to talk to because there's no one in place for the government's representatives, so I don't know if it's time to maybe wait for someone to come because you read who's authorized here today to represent the government. Well, since I don't seem to be clear enough to ask a question that's simple: where are the government representatives? I will begin to talk about this four-point galaxy, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Area, which is one point relating to the protection of the environment and culture, and then three points which are the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on visa waiver. So I read these four things on purpose, because it's clear that between the first and the next three points there's absolutely no connection, so I don't know on what basis they're connected. Mr Djelic, Vice-President, Minister of Government here at the previous point told what concerns the point for which he was authorised to represent, this Indonesia and the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between Serbia and Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, which is also an interesting case of how government representatives refer here to the National Assembly, to MPs and do not discuss points on the agenda. So, since it has happened several times here that environmental laws are put into a joint debate of 17 laws, of which 10 or 11 are systemic. There is never an adequate debate about it. On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have prepared a story that refers precisely to the proposal for a law on the validation of the European Convention on the Area, which is, in part, a point relating to the protection of the environment, but at the same time, a point concerning culture. I wish there was a culture minister here, who likes to say he's doing his job, and the environment and spatial planning minister, who has also been declared the most European, so it would be interesting to have a little bit of business as well as the environment minister. So, the European Convention on the Area is very important for Serbia because it was actually created ten years ago and adopted in the Council of Europe, and last October 2010 in Florence was the occasion of a celebration of the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the European Convention on the Area, of course, the marking of such a significant date did not go without a representative of Serbia. There were representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, then representatives of the Institute for Nature Protection and representatives of the Public Enterprise of Vojvodina. I have already said that the convention was established in July 2000 and this is the first internationally recognised document dedicated to all aspects of the area. It applies throughout the territory of Member States and covers natural, urban and rural areas. It is actually the first document to refer to European areas and to their preservation. The aim of the Convention is, very briefly, to promote the protection of areas in Europe, as well as what is particularly important for us, to manage and plan the area, but also to organise international co-operation on all areas, with a special emphasis on protected areas, and Serbia is a country that has not made a national list of protected areas, and it would be interesting to have representatives of the Government here, to discuss this. Serbia signed this convention in 2007 and now the final convention has arrived for ratification in parliament, and it will be very interesting for me to observe how many MPs will report that we are talking about this issue, precisely because a very informal group of green MPs have been made in parliament, which is made up of many MPs from many parliamentary groups, but they are only there when the group is represented, not when it comes to laws that they and I are very interested in. Why is Serbia interested in the Convention on the Area? First of all, I have to say that this is the first document to be considered a key international agreement and holder of a European standard in the process of reforming the policy of protection and management of areas and cultural heritage. It is very important that this document provides an integrated approach to protection of the environment and it is very important that it introduces a landscape and cultural heritage in sustainable development policy. Sustainable development policy is something that declared Serbia is very much behind, but when we look at the laws it makes in this area, we are very skeptical that this is the way Serbia is going with this government. This Convention speaks of all types of European area, and of those who are devastated and demoted, and of those areas that are protected and exceptional beauty, all areas, and urban and rural and natural, but what makes it important for Serbia to adopt this Convention is that it is talking about introducing measures of protection, governance and planning at national level, which is very important, and what we lack, and international co-operation. The Council of Europe encourages individual countries of Europe to take over the same high standards in protecting, planning and managing the area, which is logical, because there is not one single document dealing with the area in this way, as an essential factor in establishing a balance between the conservation of natural and cultural heritage on the one hand, and its use on the other hand, and no document that the landscape sees as an economically very important resource that depends on and the creation of jobs. Of course, this European Convention on the Area is a continuation of the policy on the protection of Europe's natural and cultural heritage and is therefore relying on those documents that Europe brought in this direction, this is the Convention on the Protection of the World, Cultural and Natural Heritage in 1972, the Convention on the Protection of European Wild Species and Natural Habitats in 1979, the European Convention on the Protection of Architectural Heritage in 1985 and the 1992 European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage. Of course, there are also a number of international initiatives that Serbia has partly supported regarding these conventions that I have cited and the convention that I am talking about. The convention represents the work of the Council of Europe in the fields of both natural and cultural heritage, in the area of spatial planning, environment and local self-government, and therefore it is very important to look at the laws that Serbia has adopted in this area. I will go back to those laws later to see if there is a ground for the application of the European Convention on the Area in Serbia. The Convention defines an area as the area seen by locals and visitors whose visual marking and character represent the product of the operation of natural and/or cultural factors. So it's a landscape of natural and cultural factors, natural and cultural components that can't be separated, but are viewed as one and watched together. The area is a significant component of the environment and of the human environment, regardless of whether it is in the city, the village or the natural area and whether it is an ordinary landscape, degraded, devastated or landscape of exceptional beauty. What is very important for Serbia, and above all because it is a signator of the Archus Convention, which introduces the public as an important element of decision-making in the field of environmental protection, is that this Convention also speaks of the need to encourage the public, in order to include and participate more actively in decision-making, planning and governance, and in order for the public to finally understand how much responsibility it has in making its own decisions and for what is happening in its environment. Speaking of the public, this assembly had an interesting case in the adoption of amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act, where practically NGOs and the professional public were involved in commenting on the changes and additions made to this law. Of course, the DSS supported the public's efforts, we made amendments that fully supported this, and practically, that's where the public carried out that decisive influence and the Ministry decided not to go with such protection regimes, as it offered, which would be disastrous and devastating, but to fix something in that sense. Another example is the storage of hazardous waste by populated towns and cities of Serbia, and it is very interesting that this large project of these waste storage sites, our most important in the area of environmental protection, represents Serbia as part of the Green Wave, so that someone might think that what it offers is good for the protection of the environment for Serbia. However, the public, thank God, complains, NGOs, the professional public is talking about it, so that this big businessman of ours, who sells very well with his private company computers across Serbia, public enterprises and institutions, does not always come across a good reception, and there is a problem with filling up the questionnaires that apply to companies, yet there is resistance in the public, which is good. Fortunately, the public recognizes how important this area is to her, becomes more and more interested, and it is fortunate that the public finally assumes the role it needs, which is to initiate and control. The importance of ratifying this Convention for Serbia is also reflected in the fact that the states of the signatories will achieve co-operation at three levels, at the level of technical and scientific assistance through exchange of experience, which is valuable for Serbia, because we are going through some initial steps that many countries have long gone by and it is very important for us to get both their experiences and technical assistance in this regard. The second area is the exchange of experts in this area, because in Serbia we do not have experts in the type of those who will deal only with these areas and therefore need an exchange of experience. The third is the exchange of information on all issues contained in the provisions of this Convention. I would now return to what I had promised earlier, which is a brief analysis of the laws relating to this area which are very important and which should be commented. The first of them is the Act on the Protection of Nature, Amendments and Supplements of the Nature Protection Act. The law is interesting because it introduces the concept of landscape and protection of the area in order to preserve its personality and diversity and because it introduces unity and aesthetic values, as well as to enable traditional use of natural values. Protection, management and planning of the area should be based on the identification of the area and the assessment of its characteristic and significant features based on clear and precise criteria, which unfortunately this ministry did not bring, and should bring them in as soon as possible. What we also don't have, and it's very important that we have what we have as soon as possible, are the basic guidelines for the protection of improvements and management of the area, spatial and urban plans. These guidelines should also be included in the planning and project documentation, as well as in the management and use of natural resources and goods. When it comes to this law, and I mentioned earlier that the proposal was followed by dangerously directed protection regimes and that the amendments made by the DSS, which followed the demands of the professional public and 30 NGOs, had stopped practically the major damage that was being done in the area of protection of protected areas. The next law to be discussed is a bit of an impact assessment law, the Law on Strategic Impact Assessment and Amendments and the addition of the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment. These laws, in fact one law, deal exclusively with areas of exceptional qualities that deserve a high degree of protection. In other cases, there is no relevance to more serious and deeper analyses of impact on the character and structure of the area and is only referred to the detection of visual changes, which is certainly more than enough for our subtle investors, which most often, not to say in 100% of the cases, leads to profits and necessarily attractive areas, but not to save them for generations. Of course this should sound like a joke, although it's bitter but also very true. If anyone is serious, and under this serious view, at least I think that this serious one should be a state, so if someone does not seriously restrict the law of the investor's appetite in protecting the environment and in assessing the impact of what they are doing on the environment, I fear Serbia will not write well. When I say every serious government, I am not, of course, talking about this government that is exclusively trying to show everyone that Serbia is not a serious state and that they do not accidentally think that Serbia is a serious state. Thanks to them, Serbia is a sad country, where hungry and hopeless people live. People who do not live until New Year's Eve, as told by President Boris Tadic, but from today until tomorrow; by New Year's, it is a question of whether an army of 700,000 people, living below the poverty line, or that army of millions and 300,000 who are poor, or are located at the very border of poverty; or that army of 178,000 people who are more fortunate than others, will receive social assistance. Of course, I don't need to talk about those pensioners who receive a pension of less than 11,000, which, of course, doesn't bother some of my colleagues, who like to say that they are the only and exclusive representatives of pensioners, and that one of their salaries is worth, or what they receive monthly, is worth 20 pensions from these pensioners. Furthermore, what is interesting and what should be commented on here, and what is simple is what Mr. Tadic further told Serbia, citizens who are impatient for no reason, so the citizens wonder if he wrote this himself, because they are very concerned if he is: It is like a pregnancy to you. We are in the process of maturing this economic fruit and I simply cannot promise that mother Serbia will be born faster than it is time. It's not about choices, it's about natural maturation. You can see why they're wondering if he wrote it himself. In addition, I must say another fact, Mr. Tadic would have to know that pregnancy is a hope, that it represents bringing fruit and new life. Thanks to him and his government in Serbia, there are no more lives. In Serbia, every hope and every life was killed. Let's get back to this environmental impact assessment law. The law is definitely prepared for change because it does not comply with the principle of planning, governance and protection introduced by the European Convention on the Area. I expect that he will soon be in front of the MPs, because he is very difficult to apply, and that's what we said when it came to that law. The following is the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction. A man must really work hard to recognize the concept of protection in this law. This law has just been announced as one that respects this concept and has just been advertised, just like this government that is current and this coalition in power is talking about itself as reformers, but that reformers are only in words. The works show them something else. They show that there's actually no word about reform. Here's a little example. The final example is the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, which was here at this session. In a ten-year term, there are no larger women's rights fighters, gender equality, for women's political rights than they are, for a language that is natively sensitive. Then what the democratic right of women has been provided by the government of Vojislav Kostunica by the Law on the Source of People's MPs that 30% of women must be on the lists, they immediately lead to complete absurdity by saying that the law should lead to 30% of women on the lists, and then they say that each fourth will be a woman. If you divide the table by 4, you'll get 25%. I'm just talking, and I'm gonna talk about it when the time comes, but I'm just talking from that level where it's perfectly clear what they're saying and what they're doing, what they're saying and what they're doing. Of course, Minister Dulic, when speaking about this Law on Planning and Construction, presented the law as one that supports the concept of protection of the area based on the protection of natural, cultural and historical values. Today it is clear that the elements of all this can be sought by microscopes, because they are not in real life. That law actually killed every opportunity for the building to be what it used to be in this country. Then we have the Law on the spatial plan of RS 2010-2020. I have to say, and it's interesting that this document appears in the concept of the area, which is defined in the same way as in the Convention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54967	Thank you. Time's up. I expect very soon the authority for you to arrive, and 20 minutes have passed. Thank you. The word has Mr Dejan Mirovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54968	It's interesting on what basis these laws and bill proposals are joined together. In addition to the greater effort, we have failed to see the thread that connects these laws. We will try to explain our position, the position of the SRS, above all the proposal for a law on the European Convention on the Area, on the abolition of diplomatic visas with Algeria and on double taxation with Indonesia. As far as the 2000 Convention is concerned, which was adopted by the Council of Europe, the basis of the Convention, and this is already seen in the explanation of the so-called "The Council of Europe". sustainable development. Unfortunately, until today, there is no definition of this sustainable development that would be widely accepted, there is only one thing that can be said in the framework outlines that is one definition that includes, as it says in the light of this proposal, economic and social and cultural components, of course and ecological, which are the basis of this Convention. However, it should be realistic and should be borne in mind that, above all, sustainable development depends on the economic strength of a country, on its economic power, and it is mainly related to science and theory to GDP growth, per capita income. We saw a few days ago that these were our variable categories, day and day you don't know what a GDP drop was. According to some data, it was 3%, and according to some data, 6%, but that's another topic. As far as sustainable development is concerned, it is unlikely that this sustainable development will also have a consensus on environmental development, if external debt is known to have reached around 22.9 billion euros, which is a huge figure, you will recognise this population of 7.5 million people. This debt will certainly affect both these environmental laws and all the ecological offensives of Minister Dulic, which we do not claim to be followed by bad intentions, but rather on the contrary. But, you know, it's hard in one country, where GDP falls by 6 or 3 percent, to pass some laws that are in accordance with this convention on protection of the environment. Also, when we look at this convention, it's quite abstract and there are a lot of extensive members. However, its concrete application will be very difficult in this situation. Let me give you a specific example. I am sorry that there is no Minister or Mr Djelic, to answer a few specific questions about the application of this Convention on the Area, i.e. environmental legislation. How they intend to cope with the apparent harmful functioning of US steel in Smederevo, which is reportedly Serbia's largest exporter and, you will admit, it is still a US-owned firm, i.e. There goes profit and all? We also have information that is public, which was presented in January of this year, for example, that those boundaries of unauthorized particles have been exceeded in the area where the US Steel is. This, for example, was presented in a report by St. Luke's Health Center in Smederev. Also, in Article 2 of this proposal for a law on the application of this ecological convention, a little closer defines the scope. Here, when we apply this to Sartid, when we apply to rural areas, which are also mentioned in this Convention, villages such as Vranovo, Ralja, etc., which are threatened by the harmful and non-organic activities of Sartida, i.e. "US Steel." Now I'm not going to get into how it was sold, how it was, these are already topics for some other laws. Here, first of all, the focus on environmental harmfulness is supposed to be the biggest and best investments in the last few years I don't know how many years, decades. However, we argue that it is not so and that the company, that this US Steel company Serbia is protected, not only in the media, but is protected by this government, which does not show a fraction of the desire to be sharp and to apply laws as is applied in the NIS case. Also, as regards Article 2 of the Sea Area, it is simply not applicable for our country after a referendum organised by the EU in Montenegro, but it is a different topic. Art. The 5th and 6th are listed as the most important members of this Convention on the Area, and this is about 'lifting awareness'. It's probably about environmental awareness, the awareness of citizens and the functioning of the general public, as stated in the 5th and 6th members and what's good. In this sense, it should again be stated that it is precisely an example that will show that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministries and so on. NGOs, which deal with these topics, show their consistency, principle and concern for the protection of citizens, precisely on the case of Sartid and on the case of this pollution, which culminated in early 2011, with concrete examples that I cited. In that sense, I would recommend, and I am sorry that none of the ministers are there, an example of world practice, which shows that one responsible government, which cares about citizens, who care about environmental awareness in the public, solves such significant problems. In 2006, at a meeting held in the city of Tomsk, Siberia, it was decided that the pipeline, which was to connect eastern Siberia with China and the United States, should be removed from Lake Bajkal 350 to 400km. The original project planned for the pipeline to pass somewhere 40 metres from the coast of a lake considered a world heritage. You must know that the Unesco has classified it as a lake as one, so to speak, an ecological gem in its list of protected world values. However, the Russian authorities have shown a kind of ecological consciousness and, regardless of the great losses that this route will have, which is 300 to 450km moved from Lake Baikal, they have implemented this other project and have thus come to the meeting of regional authorities, Greenpis and all the environmental associations and organisations that have dealt with this problem. Therefore, when you compare this large project on one hand and the big turn of a huge pipeline and this impotence, indifference or I don't know how to explain it when it comes to Sartide, which is near here, I think it is one case that must be an incentive for the government, for the Secretary-General and for all those people who will be working on the application of this Convention, against which we are not in principle, although we consider it to be indicative, an example of how to work in practice and how this Convention should be applied. I can also give an international example. You certainly know that the first track of the North Stream pipeline has already been completed and that for this pipeline, above all, there was a problem, not technically, laying these pipes through the Baltic Sea, but the ecological permits of Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Germany and Russia. For several years, studies have been done and projects have been done that would succeed in bringing this ecological balance of the Baltic Sea to the same level with economic interests, which are undoubtedly large, because this project is somewhere worth more than seven billion euros, and only when all documents were brought in ecological terms, as far as territorial waters are concerned, as far as the bottom of the Baltic Sea are concerned, this project was launched in a technical sense, and only in 2009. So, for four years, all the permits were to be delivered in an ecological sense and that was to begin. You've seen, after a year, it's over and will be released at the end of this year. So, this is another example for the ministries, for the minister, for the government and for all those who want to apply this convention on the area, that simply ecology is not a kind of propaganda, but a kind of need that goes with economic interests and is not less important than economic interests. When propaganda and political interests happen to overcome these economic needs, then you have a kind of manipulation. I can tell you, in that sense, it's enough to look at the policy of the Greens faction in the European Parliament and you'll see that they're more advocated for war, for bombing from the SRJ to Libya, than for some ecological standards. In that sense, I would recommend, I am sorry that the minister is not here, a very interesting exhibition on environmental and policy, held by Czech President Klaus at the Serbian Academy of Sciences several months ago, when he was on an official visit to Serbia. So not everything that comes from the EU about environmental laws should idealise. It is critical and, above all, in terms of this mentioned sustainable development to see what is good for our interests, what is good for our citizens and what benefits this sustainable development, raising standards, raising social, cultural and other rights of our citizens. Also, as regards these environmental laws which are being processed within the meaning of this Convention, we have a clear view here, that we are not against the Council of Europe conventions and that we are separating the Council of Europe as a single roof organisation, in which the Russian Federation and other countries are also from the EU. So we distinguish between the Council of Europe conventions and the directives and regulations, and we can say in practice and individual EU ultimatums. We believe that these are two different organisations and two organisations that behave differently for the nuance, however, towards the national, economic and all other interests of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I'm going to give you a specific example. This shows, however, that this legislation of the Council of Europe is at a more humane level than the EU, than Aki Communitres, which is a simple fact that the European Social Convention, which was adopted in 1961 in Turin, has been applied in the Council of Europe for decades. However, the European Community and the EU have not ratified this Convention and has not directly introduced it into Aki Communitre, although this Convention is directly linked to this Convention which we are now considering, as it speaks of employment conditions, workers' health and all those facts that go with one environmental legislation. Also, in Article 7. The Convention states that this article does not undermine what we have now put forward, that exchanges of experts should be promoted and we are not against it. We are against receiving donations and training experts who have come from abroad, mainly from the EU. This is the type of abuse, as Article 6 states that training of experts is carried out in accordance with this Convention. We warn, and a few days ago there was a debate on the Law on Business Society, where the law explained that, in fact, the law was written by experts from Germany, which, you will admit, however, in terms of this kind of right, where each country has special legislation and where the "Aki Communitre" is not so agreed, more than strange. The question arises whether a law, whether some conventions are passed just to get donations, which will go just like that. EU experts. I think that's why this Article of the Sixth Convention should be applied very carefully, and sublegal regulations should also be adopted, perhaps better regulated. Also, as regards Article 10, we will again say that we are not against this right of the Council of Europe, and as far as the definition is concerned, they must again be clearer and apply in the procedure itself, because I will remind you that a conference was held in Davos in February 2009, where the already mentioned Czech President Klaus mentioned again that it was the abuse of environmental legislation by the EU. As far as UN legislation is concerned, you know that two years ago a major international conference was held and that there was disagreement, because the legislation was not precisely defined and precisely formulated. What do I mean? So this convention should be applied in accordance with those conditions that exist in the Republic of Serbia and should not be made a fetish out of it or, as Mr Klaus says, a new religion, because it is about the interests of our citizens. In Article 12. The Convention, and just in the context of what we've been talking about, there are definitions that allow stricter provisions and should be applied exactly to "Sartid". It should show one kind of courage, both political and ecological, both economic and any kind, because it is supposed to be the largest Serbian exporter, it is not true, but it is the largest exporter in Serbia's territory, which has exports of about 700m euros, which, if you take that only 1% of that huge export, which is based among other things on preferential treatment for electricity and other benefits that Sartid has, should be applied to ensure that these environmental damages are warned, as happened in early 2011. As for these other laws that are being discussed here today, we feel that relations with Indonesia should be developed. There is, of course, a great geographical distance, but it should be pointed out that this double taxation is one fluid that needs to be applied in co-operation with this country because, above all, it is the largest Muslim country in the world, which has over 200 million inhabitants. Unlike the so-called. A friend from Ankara and other countries who are forced here as alleged friends, she didn't admit so-called. Kosovo's creation, so in this sense this is one step, I'm not saying it's a fatal step in co-operation with a country this far away, but certainly it's a step in a good way. As far as Algeria is concerned, it is also a Muslim country that has not recognised Kosovo and which is very important in economic terms, because you know for sure that it is the first producer of liquid gas in the world, the fourth producer of gas in the world, and it is a country that shows a kind of well-intention both in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference and in the Movement of Unclassified. This is not in these moments without meaning when we see that, which is a kind of absurdity, the EU is much more hostile to Serbia in terms of recognition of Kosovo than the Organisation of an Islamic Conference, which shows all the senselessness and absurdity of the phrase that the EU has no alternative and that there are allegedly some friends and some market that will allow us prosperity. In that sense and as a kind of conclusion, we believe that we should develop, first of all, economic relations with our natural and economic partner, such as the Russian Federation, of course, and with these significant countries such as Algeria, which are too rich, have natural wealth. We warn the public in the context of the debate on these conventions that, when one day, God forbid, Serbia will be an EU member, according to Article 133. The Treaty establishing the European Community, more specifically the Treaty of Rome, will not be applied. So when that long-awaited day happens for some, Serbia will have to step out of the free trade agreement with Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and all those countries where there is a market for our products.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54969	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. According to Article 96(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, were submitted by the parliamentary groups DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and the SRS. I give my word to MP Milan Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54970	So, despite the fact that we do not have an authorised representative of the Government, you, Mr. Vice President, have the same shirt that we received before this debate, and it was your duty to say at the beginning of the debate on this united point: does the representatives of the promoter, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, want a word; does Dr. Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning want a word; does Mr. Predrag Markovic, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society want a word and does Mr. Vuk Jeremic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, want a word? I suppose the three listed ministers, headed by the Deputy Prime Minister, were in charge of saying a word about this item of the agenda, therefore, on the draft law confirming the European Convention on the Area, and that Mr Vuk Jeremic should have said something about visa waiver agreements and visa waiver agreements, double taxation, etc. Unfortunately, we see that none of the listed ministers and vice-presidents of the government are in the O.R. On the other hand, we see that we have a representative of the government. Mr. Vice President, you could have introduced Mr. Representative of the Government to us, to know the name and last name, to know from which ministry the gentleman, whose office he performs in that ministry, is not to guess. We might think the Home Office gentleman might be the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Finance. We just don't know who it's about, so we should know these things, if we're already discussing one serious law. Now I'm going to say a few things about this law, certainly considering this to be a very important law, but this law is a multidisciplinary area. So it should cover, which is why it was important for different ministers to be there, the environment, culture, education, agriculture, including European integration. Given that fact, it's a little degutant that we are now discussing without a government representative, that we don't know who's listening to us, whether he's going to be able to transfer all that information in all of these listed ministries, or if it's just an informed one ministry, which we don't know at this point, because we don't know from which ministry Mr. Representative is from. What does it matter? It is important because when we talk about the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, and I want and mining, this law mentions several very important laws that this assembly has passed, and in the meantime there have been amendments and additions to certain laws. I will count them, so it's about the Nature Protection Act, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, and there should be another law, which is very important, which is unfortunately not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is the Waters Act. It was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. That's why it might have been good for him to appear, if Mr. Dusan Petrovic, who is the current Minister of Agriculture, Water Management, Forestry, might have been present here, might have been able to make a famous Enterprise firm, perhaps she could make some comment on this law. Things stand out as well as the basic problem of the bill that is not in line with our basic laws. So this topic has been discussed in Europe since the far 90th, and it is a very important topic. We are now in 2011, already half a year, passing this law even though we are signatories to this convention in 2007. So there wasn't time, and maybe there wasn't any sense of access to one of these laws before. When these environmental laws were passed, which went into a package of 17 laws, so it was a reverse application, as soon as it was done, without a quality debate, without quality consideration of the amendments, we had some objections to the Law on Protected Areas. At the time, we had a very strong controversy with Mr. Dulic. Since I am a man who guards and remembers certain words of certain ministers, it was simply our controversy that applied to the members of the 37th to 57th of that law, to the amendments and additions of the Law on Protected Natural Rights. When we told Mr. Minister that the minister couldn't have the exclusive right to decide whether to build or not, in any law in the world, that the minister had the power to make such a decision, the minister answered us the following way. I'll read you just one amazing sentence. So, on our remarks the minister says like this – what if they happen to find themselves in a protected economy of good gold and diamonds or anything else that is rich ore that can help this country? You see, given that sentence, I didn't understand the weight of all these words at the time, but later when the government was reconstructed and when Mr. Dulic took over the mine-resor, it was quite clear to me why he said it. So, in protected economic goods, we will find gold and diamonds, so Mr. Dulic took the mine-resor. This is just one example of how the executive government treats the National Assembly as well as the citizens of Serbia. When I mentioned why it is important for the Minister of Education to be here, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, you see, Mr. Vice-President, in Article 6 of this Law under a) there is a subtitled "Ascension of Consciousness", under b) "Train and Education". At that point, b) the third sub-point says: "College and university programmes from relevant areas dealing with the values of areas and issues arising from their protection, management and planning". It would be good if Mr. Obradovic were there to see if there was an idea in him, if he had talked to his ministry, if he was even familiar with this law, with this member, whether he intended to introduce education in the programmes of college, secondary education, to see why it was important, and it is very important. The important thing is that Mr. Dusan Petrovic is there, because it also concerns water problems. Remember, a month ago in all of Serbia, there was an alarm. One amateur took pictures of what the waters of southern Morava look like, and that's not the only water flow that looks like. Unfortunately, in Serbia, all waterways are in a similar situation. We have all the bells to honk, to go through the means of public informing the stories of "clean up Serbia". A lot of noise, a little or no effect. When laws are not applied and laws are passed so that the minister has exclusive powers, then the fate of the law is such, and the fate of the law will be very similar. So it's about one irresponsibility, one boast, not interested in the problems being discussed here in the Assembly, which shows the lack of ministers who are properly invited to this session. All in all, one catastrophic condition, in the government, one complete mess. An important law to exchange views on, to point to certain problems, we don't have a conversation. The only hope for Serbian citizens is that this will take a very short time, that the deadline for the use of this irresponsible government has passed and that very, very close to the extraordinary parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54971	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Instead of Mr. Jojic, the word has Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54972	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, you will not take me for harm, in the discussion I will address you since Mr. Lobby Brussels in Belgrade has gone, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll talk to you, and I'm deeply convinced that you'll agree with us about some things, the views of the SRS, and this kind of adventure, and about the convention on the area, not because we feel that the convention doesn't make sense. The convention makes sense, but those who have to deal with it, who commit to it, are really unserious and then having a sense of putting them into question in one serious way. Of course, I have to look back at what this gentleman, lobbyist Brussels, said in Belgrade, which is that he visited Serbian exporters and good companies, that he asked them – what is their problem, and they told him – lack of investment loans. Of course, Serbia for the last 10 years may have been missing everything, but there was no lack of credit. Unfortunately, these loans were not investment loans, loans were exclusively or to the greatest extent for liquidity. This indirectly points to the fact that there is a problem in Serbia, and the problem is that we have no bonuses, the problem is that we have no credit ability, the problem is that we are inequitable, and it is not about having or not having a loan, it is a matter of business environment, which this government has created for the last 10 years in Serbia. As for this treaty with Indonesia, I would really like to join my colleague, the authorised representative, Mr. Dejan Mirovic. We really can't, if nothing else, have any damage from a contract like this or an agreement with Indonesia. What is a fact is that on that scale, the economic partners of the Republic of Serbia Indonesia are indeed not in some envious position and that is what is not good. We believe that this is also about the government's irresponsibility, because if the government really wanted to deal with improving economic relations with Indonesia, we are confident that the 200 million market, as many as there are a single state, would be one interesting goal or focus, would be the subject of attention. Instead of dealing with them or trying to establish co-operation with such countries, unfortunately, we are dealing with countries that directly question our constitutional order, 22 EU countries have recognised KIM independence. Unlike them, Indonesia has not done so, and that market of 27 EU countries has 450 million inhabitants, while on the other hand, one friend has a concentration of 200 million people, who, you must admit, represent one very good and serious market. On the other hand, the standards of Indonesia, which, in terms of goods going there on that market, would be established in front of our economy, I think are much lower than those being placed on us from the EU. We're not glad we can't meet those standards. We're sorry you ruined the country and ruined it. By ruining the country, you have ruined the economy and economy today, 10 years after you came to power and promoted sustainable development, it is indeed not ready to establish or provide standards in the production of those goods that could possibly end up in European markets. Therefore, Indonesia, I repeat, has not recognised the independence of KIM and Serbia, if it would become finally a responsible state, should indeed improve and raise relations with Indonesia and all other states that are ruling and respecting international law norms and do not deny Serbia the right to such norms and such provisions. What's very interesting here is this Convention on the Area. My colleague Mirovic said very interestingly that you are masters to make everything propaganda, but when you make an ecological propaganda about nature protection, environmental protection, then it sends a disgusting picture of this country to the world, especially those who are engaged in an untasteful and irresponsible way. I will try a little later on a very specific case to show how much you have shown in the past 10 years that in the context of its space you do not understand, you do not recognise, that in 10 years you have not changed your relationship to sustainable development in any way, and especially towards the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is not a country that has huge quantities of certain resources, but what is rich and advantageous of Serbia is the fact that it has dispersion of resources, that they are different, the truth is not great, but the different resources we have. What is a serious resource of the Republic of Serbia is space, not only have you promoted it or if you have stopped it, you have contributed to Serbia's picture being what it is today, and in the area, I will try to illustrate it or show on a concrete case what the situation in Serbia is today. What is degutant, that is, when you read – what are the objectives of this Convention? It is the protection, management, planning of all types of European areas, no less, whether urban, rural, downgraded or exceptional beauty. I will later show your relationship to areas of exceptional beauty, as the state of Serbia has manifested on a very specific case a relationship to areas of exceptional excellence. What also irritates is the further text of this argument, in which it says, watch this - by accepting the Convention, the Republic of Serbia will join countries that have shown an understanding of the value of European cultural and natural heritage as a cornerstone of European identity. So he says – implementation of a policy of spatial development aimed at protecting, managing and planning areas, as part of a European heritage, will be made possible through effective international co-operation based on the Convention that deals exclusively with the area. On the side of this is written in five paragraphs, the names of the five laws adopted in this country and which represent an adequate norm that the state of Serbia is in particular responsible for managing its space and areas of exceptional qualities, and then you get into a situation to read the defeating statistics. When you read this, you get the impression that you live in Sweden, but when you take the parameters published by the Republic Statistics Institute, published by our science in the context of the adoption of the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, you also see that 10 years after you came to power only 4% of waste water goes into processing in Serbia. You had discussed the Space Plan here that only 13, 14 or 15% of households in the city of Belgrade have organized sewers, that we do not talk about what the press is like in the rural environment, what the situation with water lines and sewers in the rural environment in the 21st century today in Serbia, while those who are obliged to do so is poisoning citizens about European standards and the European perspective of Serbia. With standards like that, you can't even go into unclassified or I don't know where, you can't keep them company, let alone one Sweden that's here, and 95% of its waste is processed or recycled. What is also interesting is that there have never been greater regional differences. Is that your developed awareness of sustainable development? Is that what we need to recognize her with? It's sad when someone on the inside isn't able to recognize the interest of how space is protected, how sustainable development is developed, how values are nurtured that will provide us with and enable us to live easier, when we have to do it this way. And even if we believed this convention would force you to commit something, we might find it easier. But, as my colleague Dejan Mirovic said -- this is mere propaganda, we spend congregation time, we waste time on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, instead of discussing serious matters. I said, Mr. Novakovic, on a very specific case, I'm going to illustrate to you the state's attitude towards areas of exceptional excellence. The landscapes of exceptional features are the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. One of those spaces or target, if I may say so, is on the territory of the municipality of Surdulica, from which I come. It's Lake Vlassin. The Vlassin Lake has been declared an area of exceptional qualities, an area of strategic national interest for the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately, during a period of previous local self-government, radicals recognized the meaning and importance of this space and, with superhuman efforts, brought in all the necessary strategic documents that are in accordance with this convention of yours, which you are committed to today. We've brought a spatial plan to the area of extraordinary qualities. This area is declared a protected natural good. It was declared a Ramsar area. Based on these documents, Mr. Vice President, a master's plan for the development of tourism has been put in place. There is no strategic plan document that could be adopted and adopted by 2008 without adoption. The local leadership that inherited us remains under the obligation to bring in four urban plans and round the continent. Three years after the establishment of a new local self-government, the job is not finished. What was foreseen by these projects and programmes, Mr Novakovic, is that Vlassin Lake is one of the most significant tourist brands not only of the Republic of Serbia, but of this whole region, above all of Bulgaria, with which we are bordering, and then the Republic of Serbia. It has been projected that 10,000 people live daily throughout the year, that they spend money up there, and that citizens of southern Serbia, because the regional character project, of which tourism lives, are being produced there, that they are being employed, because here we read that one reason for this convention is to create opportunities for new jobs through sustainable development and building standards in the field of environmental protection, i.e. tourism. So then we tried to implement it. The prerequisite for such a thing is to make a sewer ring to protect that water in a protected area. Hundreds of millions of cc's of clean water are up there. I'm saying this so that someone in the government, who might be listening to this, would develop a light bulb above their heads and not only swear to the story of regional development but to do something concrete in that sense. Making the project documentation cost 250,000 euros. The project worked on the most innovative and serious architectural construction institutions in Serbia through programmes or business-technical co-operation contracts. This as a good project has been recognised by international institutions and financed. Now someone out of Serbia's borders recognizes it as meaningful and well, and then comes the local leadership that does everything to disenfranchise and form a government that does not recognise the interest of working and raising the economy and life in that part of Serbia. A project that's supposed to be realized, $10 million through partnering, co-financed, whatever relationships you want, that can be realized. The government of the Republic of Serbia if it really wants to show that it wants to deal with regional development, to deal with sustainable development and to protect protected goods and areas of exceptional qualities, there must be hearing for such a thing. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in its blindness and burdens with coalition and political relations within itself, is funding down nonsense. Money is spent in nothing, spent in concrete, paved downtown, in reconstruction of municipal administration buildings, none of which will benefit. The Serbian Radical Party has tried, who knows how many times and who knows how many doors it has knocked on, to recognize it as the interest of southern Serbia, the municipality of Surdulic, the municipality of Crna Trava, the municipality of Bosilegrad, the municipality of Vladicin Han. These are municipalities that in statistics and in relations of the most underdeveloped areas with the most developed make disastrous figures. In the municipality of Vladicin Han, I have said this before, the average salary per capita is two and a half thousand, and in the municipality of Savac, 91,000 dinars. If the state has no interest down there to invest and to protect its national interest through a responsible relationship with the area of exceptional importance for the Republic of Serbia, hire and place people in office and, at the same time, in accordance with this Convention, protects its national interest, what this government is capable, ready, can or will do. To this day, nothing changes. It's all up there. This is the potential Serbia can use all year round to develop all forms, forms and models of tourism, as the strategic plan document envisions. This story of mine was going from one side to that context to show that the government would, by its failure to do or by doing wrong things, devising one of these conventions that had been ratified by 33 states, but only seven have joined it. Now Serbia, in which state authorities demand that the opposite of the Law on Legalisation, will legalise objects protected by natural goods, where it assures us it will commit to the Convention on the Protection of Processing. Government officials are demanding that, contrary to the legislation proposed by the government, most of them adopt, objects of natural importance to the state of Serbia are legalised. Who do you fake? People need to know that. You're playing with everything and you're making a circus out of everything and we're really not a country that can say that in any sense there's credibility. That has to change. When someone shows responsibility and awareness for the general and public interest, according to the national good of their country, he does not need conventions from Brussels. Mr. Novakovic, you and I both agree that this is the case, we just need a little more responsibility, awareness, commitment to Serbia, to Serbian national interests, and everything would be different. In order for something like this to happen in Serbia, you should not adopt a convention on the area, you should leave the government, leave Serbia in the hands of responsible, serious, safe and national conscious people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54973	Before continuing the work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly is accompanied by a group of students and teachers of the elementary school "Svetislav Golubović Mitraleta" from Batajnica, students: Maša Zukanović, Uros Repac, Nada Jelić, Ružica Alavanja, Ivana Dokić, Jovana Prijović, Zoran Nestorović, Vesein Jovanovic, Strahinja Draganović, Marija Nadovza, Momcilo Peović, Mila Đurić, Dragana Arnaut, Sergei Šurlan, Sandra Gočmanac, Daniela Pavlović, Jovana Rović, Jovana Bajić, Jana Romčević, Marina Bilinac, Milica Malić, Dejan Dragaš, Stefan Nešković, Mrar Mrović, Marija Žović, Marija Šović, Šovljan Žović Šović, Šović, Šović, Šovrić Šović, Šović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Ivan Žović, Žović Žović, Šović. Welcome to your home, House of the National Assembly. Let's welcome our dear and esteemed guests. I notice I've read more names than there are, but say hello to those who aren't here and tell them to come too. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54974	Mr. Novakovic, you have violated and in continuity you are violating Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges the National Assembly to participate in the work of the National Assembly, in addition to the Members of Parliaments, and the authorised representatives of the promoters. Of course, we don't have the ambition to have Mr. Djelic here to be able to convince him of what we're saying, because we, above all, are saying that the citizens of Serbia would know and what this government is, and what the majority is, and what solutions are for a better life for citizens in Serbia, but it's simply unacceptable to show in this way that the National Assembly is absolutely subordinated to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so when the minister can come, walk, there's nothing else to do, and then he's in the Assembly, and when he can't, there's no such obligation. In addition, you yourself have repeatedly convinced us that there is no business obligation, and we claim that there is, that there is a representative present here when a proposal is discussed and discussed, but you also said that you are so broad-minded that you have established some practice, if there are no proposing representatives, that a certain point is not discussed. You have taken several breaks not only for one hour but also for a whole day because the authorised representative was not able, for who knows what reasons, to participate in Parliament's work and therefore, primarily for the sake of the public, we warn that what you are doing is humiliating for the National Assembly and that you are obliged to ensure the presence of an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54975	According to the information I have, the author should come, one of the government's powers to represent. It's around here somewhere. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Sir, he is not a member of the government. Well done, sir, but a member of the government is a minister. I understand and, of course, I know that. Therefore, there is no breach of Article 27. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54976	As far as the agenda points are concerned, they are numerous and connected, but there's a lot to be said about them individually. I'd like to say a few words when it comes to this draft law concerning the European Convention on the Area. Serbia has beautiful areas and what Serbia today has the most valuable, it is that Serbia has a beautiful country and has good people. If Serbia had good authority at the moment, Serbia would be one of the more advanced and developed countries in Europe. When it comes to Serbia, it is regionally recognizable. You have areas of the Deliblat Cave, which is unique in Europe, you have the Fruska Mountain, you have the Vršački Bank, you have the Old Mountain, you have the Mine, you have the Tara, you have the Zlatar, you have the Zlatibor, you have the Javor etc. These are all the areas Serbia needs to guard, so those from Europe don't come to us if such healthy areas don't poison us. I'm afraid Serbia will suffer for a long and long time, for centuries and suffer the consequences of NATO bombings in 99. When it comes to the area and environmental protection, I would refer to the area of Pancheva, the industrial zone, pollution, environmental protection and the state of health in this regard. Panchevo is the most polluted city in all of Serbia. You have the most patients of the most difficult diseases, and if things were worse, Panchevo has a hospital, I can't say, I'm sorry, but some would compare it, such as departments of internal, cardiology, pathology and other departments, with stables. It is interesting that the government of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia has promised many Pančevs in terms of environmental protection, that they will do a lot of things in this direction and that the health center in Panchev will be trained and enabled – firstly, employees can do their jobs and provide medical services, and on the other hand that patients have adequate conditions to live and stay, to heal and heal. Panchevo again met with the problem that competent commissions from the Panchev health centre do not allow the citizens of Panchev to be treated in Belgrade. There were promises from the province, however, those from Pancheva do not listen to the province or the Republic when it comes to environmental protection and health protection of the citizens of Pancheva. This and the environment, as the area is concerned, in this convention that wants to be ratified with the countries of Europe, should indeed do much more to protect and protect certain areas. When it comes to the visa regime, the issue of visas and the conclusion of an agreement with the proposed states, I would remind only that Serbia has spent an ugly time, spent large resources related to the visa regime and that Schengen white visa. She was the newest in our system. There was a lot of talk, there was a lot of promise, and there was a journey to the land of Schengen. Many have come from the EU, promised that when we introduce these Schengen visas, it will be easier for our citizens to travel, come to work and that Serbia will be one of the countries that will enjoy the status of EU countries. However, this did not happen in practice. Many of our citizens have been able to travel and are now being treated as asylum seekers from Europe and banish thousands and thousands of our citizens. To make things even more interesting, our citizens don't have the money to travel. If they are to travel to one EU country, these citizens need at least 500 to 1000 euros, and few of our citizens in Serbia do. There is room and room for more attention to real things and not to give false promises to citizens. Promises are made lightly that we will be better once we join the EU. You see what statistics, mathematics and public opinion have been saying lately. Nearly 80% of Serbian citizens do not want to join the EU. Why? Because they've been cheated. Citizens cannot exercise their rights, and false promises are not reality, and citizens have neither interest nor Serbia nor they are running into the EU, and the EU is actually running such a policy, and our politicians are running for Europe and America. But Europe needs Serbia. They need Serbia, and we need Europe less. We need more big brotherly Russia and those countries that have not recognised KIM. In this direction, Serbia should lead its policy and provide its citizens with opportunities to hire, open factories, edit space, develop tourism in these areas as foreseen in this Convention. There's a lot of tourist areas. Take only Zlatar and Zlatibor, and the municipalities of Pribo, Prepolje, Nova Varoš, Ivanjica, Sjenica. These are areas where Serbia really has a soul, has lungs, and thus Serbia should build its own policy in the field of tourism and environmental protection. Let me just add, since it's been treated here in this convention and environmental protection, I must tell you, Madam Vice President, I have repeatedly mentioned here that the Panchev dump is in the middle of the city, and that 20 years of a new dump has been built, that a billion dinars have been spent, and unfortunately, I have to tell you that there is also a cattle cemetery in the part of the city called Kudeljac. It is not clear why the competent state authorities do not take some measures to provide Panchevo with funding once and to ensure the possibility for citizens to live. What's interesting is that the media in Panchev is not very fond of us. RTS records one pastry shop in one park ten times, and besides that 20-metre grocery store there's this hospital that looks more like another facility, I can't say it's a barn and there's no conditions to live and to stay patients, and neither is the staff that works there. A patient who spends ten days in an internal ward in Pancheva should be given a medal, a medal for the courage he endured in those inhumane, humiliating conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54977	Ten minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. I didn't want to interrupt you, hoping you'd dedicate at least one sentence to the agenda, but obviously you're distracted with the mind of the obligation to talk about the agenda. I remind us all what we are talking about at this point in the agenda: the proposal for a law on the validation of the European Convention on the Area, on a bill on the approval of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, on a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports and the proposal for a law on the validation of an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on visa waiver. With the understanding that the MP wanted to conjecture the discussion without having anything to do with the agenda and with the violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please do not violate the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the European Convention on the Area is one in a series of many who have been adopted and adopted in this House and, as usual, through domestic legislation, some solutions are designed that are not exactly the right goal of what is written in the Convention itself. What is the goal of globalistic planners in the world is to unify almost every aspect of social and economic life, and everything in the form of improvements in the conditions and quality of life of people, so even urban environments, villages, degraded environments, environments, cultural heritage, etc. are mentioned in this Convention. As far as I know, there are certain laws in Serbia that have regulated their provisions, their protection and improvement. These are the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Cultural Goods, the Law on Planning and Construction, the laws on impact assessment and strategic impact assessment on the environment, and the National Strategy for Sustainable Development, etc. Now we need a European legal umbrella to become more eloquent, more cultural, more self-responsible to our areas and our heritage. Each of us, of course, cares about improving and keeping areas in our environment, and there's nothing controversial about it, but the way that we present it here and simply condition it seems a little offensive. I will try three examples from our reality to show you what this cosmopolitan love looks like to preserve natural and cultural heritage. As a signator of this convention, 33 states and seven other countries, including Serbia, are listed under ratification. So we can say, almost all of Europe's countries. These countries are also signatories to some other European conventions dealing with the protection of world cultural heritage, the Convention on the Protection of Architectural and Archaeological Heritage, etc. But despite the fact that these European states have also committed themselves to respecting the principles of these conventions, they did not mind, for example, the peaceful view of the destruction of Serb shrines on KIM, the burning of the monastery complex of the Holy Archangel in the 14th century Prizren, the monastery of Zocist, of dozens of other monasteries, of hundreds of Orthodox churches. You see, and they were an integral part of some European areas, as it is said here, which made their natural and cultural features a recognizable area significant to the Serbian people. Then why didn't a member state signatory rise up against the violence and madness of the Shipara in KIM to preserve Serbian sanctity? No one has even taken a finger to preserve what's Serbian. Not to mention now the destruction of Serbian heritage and cultural heritage in today's Croatia, in the Federation of BiH, etc. We are now talking about the European Convention on the Area, and we should also deal with those other conventions, the right to live, the Convention on Human Rights, that friends from your Europe wonder why the Serbian villages of the beautiful Metohic area of Velika Hota on KIM are surrounded by barbed wire, why around primary schools in KIM where Serbian children are taught are placed a car and machine guns. Is that under any of the EU's conventions? It's easy for us to do the parts. It is necessary to preserve the lives of our Serbian brothers from those whom the very EU has given the state and the possibility to do so. An example of another. Our areas are beautiful natural oasis, untouched and unpolluted environments, meaning, Kopalnik, Tara, Rtanj, Fruška gora, Zasavica, Vlassin Lake, Gerdapska and Sitjevačka gorge, Drina, Zlatar, Pestarska visorvan and not to count further. It is so in neighbouring countries that have their own areas and protected natural resources and national parks. However, not all countries are equally rich. Some are financially stable, they're strong, some are poor. This is the first condition for something that takes place behind the eyes of the public and at the expense of poor countries. It is known that Western and Central European countries have and have had an earlier highly developed industry, that they have a large number of nuclear power plants, and hence the problem of storing nuclear waste from spent nuclear fuel. Their industry is moving quickly technologically, but that old dirtbag quickly found its way to poorer countries. So many areas, still unpolluted, have been given here by dislocated, reparated factories, which pollute the environment. In addition to these reparated dirty technology factories, which have been written off and sold for money to developing countries, tons and tons of nuclear waste, are smuggled into poor countries, where in these remote unpolluted areas, far from the eyes of the public, this waste warehouse in caves, abandoned mines, pits, caves, and so remains to insidiously destroy the living world around it for decades and centuries. Just to remind you of the great affair that was pushed into the 1989 seal by all forces, when the German ship "Barbara Blomberg" walked through the Danube, after which the passage of the border crossing at Kladov was cracked by radiation detectors, and the entire crew, mostly the old, died completely after a year. The cargo ended with the Danube in Romania, Serbia and Bulgaria. That's exactly how these signatories view our areas. They are so sincere in their aspirations that they give us such suspicious deliveries and loads. And to point out that the percentage of those affected by Timoko cancer is 30% higher than in other parts of Serbia. We're wondering why? Also, the value of the illegal storage business of this type of waste suggests that the price of one kilogram of nuclear waste storage is about a thousand and a half euros, or a million and a half dollars per tonne. The third example, this convention is simply full of concepts such as environmental protection, clean water, healthy food, organic agriculture, natural characteristics, cultural heritage, etc. We now have ministers from the government who are not here, we need them to tell us, to convince us that they are doing everything to achieve the objectives described in the preamble to this convention. However, facts and events only in the last three years, we do not have to go further, show us that the signatories themselves, which means our government and individual ministers, are not much concerned about areas or sustainable development. What's this about? Perhaps you have often had the opportunity to hear these years about protests of citizens who oppose the construction of a hazardous waste treatment plant that are normally consciously designed near cities, river streams, in the middle of agricultural land. They even seemed to me in Krnjevo, near the Great Plane, planning to build a huge waste dump just a few miles from primary school. So, you heard a little example from Russia that SRS MP Dejan Mirovic presented how many hundreds of kilometers the potentially dangerous route is moving away. But it's not about miles, it's about meters. This Convention lists the natural and cultural heritage, and how far away from what the Government is doing on the ground is the next fact. In 2009, the Ministry of Environment intended to build a facility for the physical-chemical treatment of hazardous waste, 43,000 tonnes a year, not far from Ćupri, in the middle of the agricultural good Dobričevo, which stretches to 750 hectares, 500 metres from the cultural and historical complex of the 1804 Ivankova Battle and just five kilometers from the Ravanica monastery, where the Mosques of the Holy Prince Lazar are located, not to mention now and Ćicicac. If this is according to the European Convention, then I expect to see these facilities by the Louvre, along with Windsor Park and Colosseum in Rome. The principles that go through this convention are well-intentioned, are sweet-talking, sweet-talking, but let's not forget the policy that allows or doesn't allow anything to be done. Serbian areas were bombed in 1999 with uranium bombs. Do you think someone, based on a convention that was made in 2000, would have existed before, that someone would intervene to protect our economy and our regions? This is proof that the idea of establishing a new world order is rapidly implemented regardless of conventions and resolutions that promote the positive values of this civilization. Finally, for example, Sweden, Mr. Stevanovic also mentioned Sweden for a short time. In Sweden, instead of burning tires, as allowed by law by us, they make artificial hills and ski paths, and we and Sweden are signatories of this convention, and you judge who works properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54979	Eleven minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54980	How much time do we have, Mrs. Comic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54981	The time available to the parliamentary group is 29 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54982	Okay. I'd like to start by saying how you've united this debate. The first of these draft laws in a united debate is the one relating to the European Convention on the Area. If I hadn't ruined something my predecessors told me about this convention, I would have just moved on. In 2000, October 20th, the Council of Europe adopted this convention. In order for it to enter into force, it was necessary for ten countries to ratify it, it was done, on this day practically 33 countries ratified this Convention, if the Council of Europe has 47, means 14 other states, if I may say so, have an obligation to ratify this Convention in its parliaments. I would draw attention to Article 15 of this Convention, which has a slightly different formulation, usually in the conventions of a high party Contracting Party or a signator of that Convention, has the right to place a reserve on certain provisions of the Convention. When a reserve is put in place, then the reserve is defined, particularly in terms of territory, it is a standard, and here the second principle in Article 15 is applied, that the State which ratifys this Convention should determine the territory on which this Convention will apply and then create a kind of presummation that, if the ratification law does not specify a territory, it is understood that it refers to the entire territory of the State concerned. We from the SRS would be far more pleased to say in one of the members of the ratification law it is defined that this convention is applied to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which means both Kosovo and Metohija. Proposers did not do so, but they came from something called presumption and began to assume that if as many of these international documents were ratified in the National Assembly, we have thus proved our commitment to the values of the Council of Europe, which he has been fighting since his creation there in the 1950s. When the text of this Convention is looked at and what is the essence of this Convention, it is sometimes unclear whether it refers to an area or space. The space is still a narrow term, the space covers only territory, and when the area is said to be, then it means not only the immobility of the territory of a country, but also the collokation to call it cultural and civilization heritage in that territory, which makes it a specific geographical climate, which has some differences in relation to other areas, and precisely in these differences is the quality of why it should be preserved. In these discussions, you have had the opportunity to hear that you are allegedly putting a focus on sustainable development and, above all, the environmental aspect, but I must draw attention that this is actually an initial step in a process that is inevitably following in Europe, especially in countries that are almost admitted to the EU and in those countries that are not members of the EU, but are of course members of the Council of Europe, and that first step should mark the perspective or future steps that someone, who has the monopoly of physical and political forces in Europe, will use or what goals he wants to achieve in the future. I'm re-emphasizing these three concepts of protection, management and planning. I do not dispute the fact that there is a sign in the convention - national legislation and it is given primate to national legislation, and this concludes that this first step is actually a kind of reservation of positions. Europe will need some new revelations, some new areas, intact, clean, very interesting, and this is actually not a convention but a simple declaration, a nice letter about some intentions. Of course, this fits NATO's strategy. The NATO Pact, its strategy adopted a year ago in Madrid, has set some strategic goals, no longer sophisticated weapons but monitoring climate change, intensifying actions to control energy in the entire globe. The promotion of a new principle that natural ore, mineral and any other wealth located on any point in the world is not a good country where this immobility or good is located, but represents the natural wealth of all the citizens of the world, and then through the process, if I can say so, the privatisation of everything and everything, some new monopolies are being established on market principles, so that Russian oil in the perspective will not only be Russian oil, but there will be oil for every one who is able to exploit it. Nice Kopalnik will not be the Kopalnik of Serbia and the Serbian people, but will also be the Kopalnik of all those who are able to build their chain of hotels at, say, urbanally predicted six-seven locations on the Kopalnik, which is very interesting, given that the infrastructure is already finished, and now needs to go there with some use. Montenegro was in this regard a very attractive location up until a few years ago, when the oligarchs laundered their money by giving fabulous money for some rocks and some locations. Today, this attractiveness no longer exists, since clearly it comes to the end of the story who is the boss of Darko Saric? I need to draw attention that this first initial step can be very dangerous in perspective. I am aware of the fact that we are members of the Council of Europe and of everything that withdraws membership, I must say that no opportunity has been taken to verify the oaths of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia through the reserve or definition of the territory of this Convention. There is no opportunity for what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija to be installed in some way and defined as some of our observations or distractions to the international public, and I cannot avoid the situation of some OSCE representatives in the building, and the average citizen of the Republic of Serbia when the OSCE first hears he thinks of William Walker, the jeeps and what they give to the terrorists at KIM. I'd like to start with another bill, and here's to starting with these less problematic ones. It's a ratification of a contract that needs to avoid visa regimes for diplomatic passports, as far as Algeria is concerned. Of course, it is the interest of every country to make this cooperation, the journey as simple as possible. I must draw attention to the fact that Algeria has not yet recognised an independent Kosovo and that I point out that all those states that have not recognised an independent Kosovo – this Kosovo where terrorists are harassed, of course, as MPs and politicians, this Kosovo where the monument is erected to Bill Clinton for life in gratitude for all his efforts, the contribution to KIM being taken away from the Republic of Serbia, and the fact that those who go to breakfast, from time to time they go crazy, and they say we need to share Kosovo, you know who I mean – is highly appreciated and considered real friends. Now, let's make a little joke, since Mr. Zeljko Ivanji is looking for asylum, since he feels threatened here, that's when this agreement is ratified, then he can go with a diplomatic passport completely legally to go to Algeria and look for asylum, because he feels insecure. Let me remind you, he's a majority MP not a minority. As far as Indonesia is concerned, and Indonesia has not recognised an independent Kosovo, Mrs Comic, it is commendable to each one, and it is an agreement avoiding double taxation. I would only point out one principle, it is important whether or not he is resident, and it is important that the same thing is not paid twice in two countries if business activities are carried out in those countries, and that does not mean, I warn these tycoons, that if there is a smaller amount of tax in Indonesia they must know that the difference to the real tax paid in Serbia will still have to pay Serbs. In the end, I would come up with this very interesting topic, which is a visa-free regime with Japan and an agreement that's on the agenda. Mrs. Komic, Japan is one of the first countries to recognise Kosovo's independence. Just to remind you, on March 18th 2008, Japan recognised an independent Kosovo, Kosovo headed by terrorists, Thaci, you know. Whether they did it under pressure or not; I don't believe they did it under pressure, have some political interests, probably want to satisfy them. Of course, all those states that have recognised an independent Kosovo, there are 70 of them, we from the SRS, who are trying to present more than 70% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we try to say that by this act that the state has actually shown how they treat us, how they treat our vital interests. Vital interest number 1, I must remind you, he is also in the government programme of the Republic of Serbia and the electoral programme of candidates for the president who has been elected, Boris Tadic, in promoting those oaths, to enter into the Constitution, and so did Boris Tadic, and also in the text of the oath, to swear not only in the constitutional order, but also in the preservation of the KIM in the membership of RS, and this as constitutional norm obliges everything. I know it's embarrassing for you, but I have to say, as I must say, the fact that when you came to power on October 5th, Japan was one of the first countries to be quite helpful to the Dosmanian government. It's not just buses walking through Belgrade, it's other kinds of help. I must warn you, Mrs. Komic, if we are looking at this assistance in tractors, trucks and buses, and if their relationship to KIM is viewed, I think we must give primate to the territorial integrity, sovereignty, integrity of the RS and use it primarily as a criterion for determining whether there is a real friendly relationship between some states. We want to have friendly relations with a large number of states, but on one level, with full respect for our vital interests. The one who respects the vital interests of RS is a dear friend, we should cultivate this collaboration, develop it, but don't let the citizens rip and bring in the dilemma, it doesn't matter KiM, it's important they give us the buses, it doesn't matter kiM, they give us the cherry that blooms and don't give birth. Do not devalue in this way what the Constitution promotes as the top value of the citizens of RS, who voted in a referendum and confirmed exactly what was written in the RS Constitution. Do not insult your president, who is the President of the Republic, who also swears by the Constitution, and he puts the Constitution in the first place, you know that red line, the yellow line, the green line, we are not going below it, and now you are asking this kind of thing where you question his sincerity, his commitment to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to respect the Constitution of the Republic, to everything that the superhumans do that the kiM would be part of the RS. Please don't get it wrong that I'm defending Boris Tadic from you now, but you know at times I get the impression that you're simply putting a plunger in Mr. Tadic's wheel that just bleeds, see for yourself, faded something, faded something poor, don't listen to it, something's not right here. Something's wrong with that. I don't have the tendency to be Saint Sava to calm you down, but I have to say, because if I don't, then the citizens are confused, then they say, in the National Assembly people say there are better buses than KIM, they're better cherry trees that bloom and don't give birth than KIM. They're better cherries than all those Serbs from Kosovo Mitrovica, Caglavica, and I don't order all those places in those, and they're said to be ugly with enclaves. It's more worth one bus than Decana. Please don't put me in a position to make a comparison, because it's mostly inappropriate. (President: National MP, it is primarily in conflict with Article 106 to speak of the agenda. As far as the agenda is concerned, it is an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on visa waiver. Everything else is picturesque, but incorrect, and a violation of Article 106, a obligation to speak of the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, if you had read the bill, you might have followed my discussion. I'll just remind you, we have also in the bill of law and in the explanation of the terms written, I define these terms – good friendly relations. Explain to me what the finding is based on – good friendly relations with Japan. Recognised independent Kosovo and we have good friendly relations. How can we have good friendships? Those relationships must be reduced to some minimum. Further – mutual interest. What kind of mutual interest is that? Are we interested in losing Kosovo and Metohija? We're not interested. Further – development of tourism. Mrs. Komic, there is no tourist agency in Serbia that has a tourist tour towards Japan. It doesn't exist. They say – there is an alternative if a group of up to 20 passengers is created. All our people who may work in Japan or who simply want to see, know for themselves, the road is 3,000 euros with some arrangement, it goes through Munich, Frankfurt, etc. Now that they take off their visas, it's going to bloom. What's he doing with the flower? A cherry that has no fruit. Next, I have to distract you, of course, that Japan is being too rational. They have long-standing financial problems and to get out of the long-standing financial problems they used to be second on that list, now third, they've been outrun by China, two or three years from now, and India, and of course they're opening up and of course they want to improve their system and their relationship with certain things, so they can simply achieve some financial benefits. What's the benefit of abolishing the visa regime? There's no use. There's absolutely no use. The diplomats when they go, they know how to provide themselves. If someone wants to leave, it's known through a travel agency, that I don't read to you what the procedure is and what their embassy here is saying is that it's very simple to provide a visa for them. Here it is spectacularly announced – we abolish this visa regime and treasure for us. Everything will be in the best place, in the best order. The travel agencies are going to be here, everyone's going to make money, etc. Not to tell you about the problems of travellers when they go to Japan, because they have a very strange reservation system, etc. Mrs. Comic, I've read this quite a bit to figure out some things, to see what's really going on behind all this. This agreement is concluded with the exchange of notes. By exchanging notes from our foreign ministry and the embassy of Japan. When was this agreement made? On February 20th, 2011. You see how fast it comes to ratification here. Why is he coming to ratification quickly? In gratitude for the bus. Because of the bus, you've given thanks several times, and that's nothing to worry about. But, please, on March 18th 2008, when Japan recognised an independent Kosovo, it is a line, a waterhouse that shows whether these friendly relationships are genuine friendly or supposed to be a friendly relationship for the audience, for those who grab around those cherries or for not knowing what. You've got to go in a little deep, you can't just go through the media and watch who's our friend and who's not our friend. I'm questioning an honest friendship. I'm questioning this friendship on a very important subject. Why? So the Japanese would treat us if they told me an island there was no longer their island. Someone self-proclaimed and we're now admitting what they've self-proclaimed, so the Americans have confessed, let's face it. What would the Japanese do with us then? That's what happens in Japan, half the nation would do the harikiri. Not here. Stick the label on TV enough, tape something like this and finish the job. Do you see as slowly but surely Kosovo is slipping, going, Eulex came, no longer needed by the UN, so there are Americans, and now terrorists have become MPs in the assembly, so the minister who was the first Serb in the Shipar government is now Minister of Kosovo and Metohija in Tadic's government. Little bit Dobrica Ćosic, Dragoljub Micunović, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Ivica Dacic, to share, to rip, to this, to that, to some stories. Excuse me, for Kosovo and Metohija, there must be a clear political attitude that everyone must represent. There's no improvisation. What kind of improvisations are there? My personal opinion, so some, as things stand, should be forbidden to think. They'd better sit down without thinking. Because when they think about it, there's a disaster. Media manipulation can do a lot, but media manipulations can't cure time. Everything appears as a boomerang later, as soon as it escapes the truth. That's what this is about. It can't improve our position of favor, condescending, and I don't know all the ways to describe our relationship with the centres of power in Brussels, where we have to prove that we have regional co-operation, that we have good neighbourly relations, where we accept it all well, so it doesn't matter what 40,000 people die more than they are born, so it doesn't matter what happens to our poverty, etc. That friendship, that the whole world can't wait to see us, that they want us, that they worship us, etc., inevitably there are some things that you run away from and don't allow it to be made public. I'm going to show you, on a few examples, that this kind of non-critical opening up to everything and everything you can say is an international community, an international public, etc., here's the consequences. Look, in 2010, our statistics, as they are, said that 9.2% of the population is considered poor, living below the absolute line of poverty. This was defined as 8,544 dinars per month per consumer unit. Now, I'm not harassing you by what the consumer unit is and as calculated, you see, it increased from 6.9% in 2009 to 9.2% in 2010, and in 2008, you said there was a crisis, compared to that in 2009 it increased by 0.8%. Now here you have statistics on the number of household members, on the territory where who lives. It's not the primacy of this government. That doesn't solve this government. It resolves good neighbourly relations, international co-operation, visa waiver, the abolition of this, the one, uncritical and those countries that clearly define their attitude towards the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Excuse me, if there is this kind of gratitude and respect for Japan for what they did in 2000, 2001 and 2002, where they helped, then you had to put this agreement on hold, or you didn't have to conclude such an agreement, because there are issues that question the honesty of this friendly relationship. I can't accept a state saying -- we want to co-operate with you, yes, we have recognised an independent Kosovo, but we had to do so on the orders of the Americans, the Great Britain or the NATO Pact. What kind of answer is that? It's about the same answer that this government sends to citizens, who little by little come here in front of the National Bank building, where Telekom is, and the iconography of February 5th begins – whistles, bells, etc. Then an official comes out and says – they would do anything to you, but we only have one small problem, not that the IMF, not that the World Bank, not that the European Commission, not that the Venice Commission, even though Venice just wrote you a recommendation, but it doesn't matter, you have a recommendation – they don't. Wait, please, what's the priority then? Is it a priority what is the vital interest of this people here, or is it a priority of what can be called the Brussels request and the fulfillment of the Brussels interests? You give primate to Brussels interests. You have no interest in citizens of the Republic of Serbia with Brussels's demands. If you were interested in citizens of the Republic of Serbia and statistics, things would be much more acceptable by nature. I don't want to talk about other things, talk about statistics, because you call on her. (President: National MP, you are not interested in the obligations of the Rules of Procedure. I'm interested in all the obligations, so you know. (President: Article 106 on the agenda. Yes? (President: Article 106 – it is the obligation of the MP to speak on the agenda. I'm talking about the agenda and friendly relations with the states. (President: You don't talk, MP, if you were talking, I wouldn't interrupt you. I listen very carefully to you, and I can repeat, if that doesn't put too much pressure on the MPs, both in the O.R. and out of the O.R., but please, the remaining three minutes on the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, you probably don't want to understand that I'm just making a sort of comparison of what good friendly relationships are. What is a manifestation of good friendly relations, on the one hand, and on the other hand? Never should this power manifest the good friendly relations with a state manifest the Brussels interests and demands, but the vital interests of this people. That's not what this government's been doing for 11 years. As for the foreign partner, he proves his friendly relations with this people and this country by respecting the constitutional and legal order of the state. All those countries that have recognised an independent Kosovo, we are not at all interested in what conditions, how, why, etc., they have shown that they do not respect us. They don't respect our vital interests. How can you be a friend of a man who says, "If someone set your house on fire and set your house on fire?" For the rest of your time, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-17-0.u54983	Twenty-six minutes of MP time has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No one wants to, no one's reported. In that case, I'm concluding a joint single search. This concludes our work for today and continues tomorrow, May 18th, at 10.00 p.m., by reviewing the following points on the agenda.
