ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62252	The Honorable Chairman, dear MPs. October is a month of mourning for our country. I remind you, Madam President, that today is the day of the release of the City of Belgrade, Serbia, and at the same time on 19 October, 20 and 21 October, German fascists shot a city called Kragujevac, where the students were shot. For this reason, I propose two things, with a minute of silence you suggest that we pay tribute to the esteemed patriots of this country and the freedom fighters and the other, that a delegation of the Serbian Parliament and MPs visit Kragujevac and lay one crown on the Humvee of the shooting patriots of the City of Kragujevac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62253	The word has a National MP, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62254	Mrs. Comic, I'm going to ask you that question, and I'd ask it to the president of the Assembly if she were here. You know, Gordana, we've known each other for years, we're not in the same party, you're in one, and I'm in the other, you're in power, I'm the opposition, but you and I have kids. Today, someone's children are on barricades, they're on promotions, the patriots are out of range, and this parliament thinks it has a commitment to this people who are drowning now in tear gas, if for nothing else, and what's going on here is the resolution that pushed them to those barricades two and a half months ago and that obliges you, when someone who runs this session to break up with that imitation of life and even today you say that nothing is normal in this country, so there can't be a normal parliament that ignores reality. We can't do this anymore as MPs. If we are MPs of this country, then we must have an understanding of what is happening in it. We do not agree to be the hostages of this lie and hypocrisy that you serve us here by announcing the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of our Parliament. Is anyone responsible for what these people are surviving in Kosovo today? We consider ourselves responsible for not stopping you from doing that. It wasn't enough to tell the truth, and it wasn't enough to be right. We didn't stop you from a policy that's been broken today, which doesn't threaten anyone but those people and those kids at the barricades. What looks like this parliament that ignores the fact that children are brought to barricades without being in school class, that people are not at work, but are now cannon meat for an army that doesn't even care who's on the other side. Our president is urging KFOR not to use force. Our president was obliged to think about this on July 30th here in parliament, when he gave legitimacy to what could only end in Kosovo by force through the conflict of our people with the international community in which our people were sentenced to disappear. We can't behave like this, Mrs. Comic, we haven't poured salt on anyone's wound, we've always supported every reasonable idea. I ask you to stop this hypocrisy and in such a way that, at least one gesture, you show responsibility that is necessary to show that this society is conscious. We can't live to turn away from what we created ourselves, ignoring what will reach us tomorrow. No president, you run this session, it doesn't make sense this way. If it's a ruling coalition policy, then I don't think it's even a policy, which even within the ruling coalition has a majority. Here, in parliament, those who do not deserve the protection of the Serbian state are protected, from criminals being translated into patriots. Those arrested by this state in 2003 as heroin dealers - this was said in this House, so those who said this would lead to a national disaster were declared traitors. And here, two or three weeks after the Security Committee's meeting, where they were said to be responsible for the Jarinj conflicts, our people are cannon meat. Those who shoot tear gas will shoot something else if necessary. Serbia is one of the few points on the planet, along with Iraq and Afghanistan, in which people are clashing with international forces and the parliament that pushed that people into conflict is discussing toxicological laws, or we here respect the form of a parliamentary issue. Where are the fathers of the nations? Where are those who poison this people explaining how they can't give what's not in the name of what they'll never get? Those who tell us how to shed holy blood? Whose blood is shed today? The old man who said that or the kids who are at the barricades? We can no longer live like this, and Parliament can no longer support such a thing. Is the answer to the fact that we are withdrawing from parliament? It's not. The answer to that is to draw your attention not to make a mistake this time that you've made countless times before. Not enough one statement in the five mornings of the president was given to the state agency, the president who first told us that he communicated to the public channels with that people, and then they said there was no message, and then they said after that – we only respect the Parliament's decision. Parliament's decision -- we ask that the state be restored before July 25th, we ask that the Eulexa mission be returned to the framework of the agreement reached with this state, asking KFOR to act in accordance with Resolution 1244. Is that what we're still looking for or aren't we? Or do we act as Milosevic and we have not the spine of Milosevic? He could win both Karadzic and Mladic when he estimated their policy would destroy Serbia. You can't do anything anymore. You are the authority without authority, and this leads this country to ruin and parliament cannot tolerate it anymore, because this parliament is not only the expression of the ruling majority, but here are representatives of citizens who deserve even if the truth that parliament has denied them, among other things, and this imitation of life, this false picture that serves Serbia with the message that everything is normal. Nothing's normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62255	Five minutes. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62256	The policy that leads to KiM, here's how much today, gets its final outcome. Why do I say it at last? It's just that even after today, things won't be the same. As the ruling majority, as the government in this country, we heard Boris Tadic this morning, you show concern for the citizens of Serbs living in the territory of KIM, and in that month or years back, you give them contradictory information about what the state can or wants to do for them, and for itself and for all citizens of Serbia, because this is an important and key issue. That's what months ago has been doing intensively, and in recent days it's culminating. In a statement by Boris Tadic, there is another amazing and monstrous thing we could hear this morning, which is that there is an instrumentalisation of the citizens of KIM by individual leaders of opposition parties. It's an amazing thing to hear. So doesn't the main instrumentalisation of these people come precisely from the ruling majority, precisely from Boris Tadic and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorised negotiators who make contradictory statements and confuse people living in that territory months ago, and also from the citizens of Serbia themselves, lead to a complete state of misunderstanding when it comes to this situation? How is it possible for all this parliament to remain silent? How can artificial resolutions be made, from a few months ago, that need to confirm the state of nothing, a situation in which there is no kind of legitimate and unique response of the Republic to the events that occur? Unlike the previous speaker, I don't think that the way out is simply to withdraw from the misfortune of events and simply say that something is lost. Our idea is completely different. We think that we should start from the fact that imposed policy at this point is not the only policy and that it is not the only thought that exists in the democratic world when it comes to this outcome, that there are different opinions that can be found everywhere and those who attend the CoE Parliamentary Sessions, those who have international communication at the parliamentary level see that there are political parties in the EU, in EU countries, including the UK, as well as people who think independently and who think differently from what is "mainstream". In the name of that, and in the name of ourselves, it was necessary to lead a more fundamental, different, consistent policy, not to make a circus out of all this, in order today's opposition parties are accused of instrumentalizing anyone. It's an absolute absurd. If a consistent, consistent and correct policy had been conducted, it would not have been in this situation. Which is why we needed the decision of the UN General Assembly, which forced us, we forced ourselves into negotiations with the EU, kicked everyone out of the UN bed, where we had the only formal foothold, defended by Russia and China, and we entered into a political conglomerate that absolutely doesn't suit us. In this conglomerate, in which we have no protection, we do what is done, encouraging statements are given in relation to those built in the KIM territory, who no longer know whether to guard those barricades, whether to put everyone away, what to do in the situation, and Belgrade has no answer. And the answers are hidden in some secret meetings and the subject is some kind of conspiracy. Make sure you don't surprise someone by not surprise Cafort, by accident, or the EU, so that people aren't in complete shock tomorrow, what kind of answer have we prepared? We don't even know the answer to that question here. That's the essence of the story, and that's why the DSS has been saying for three years that it's been running absolutely wrong and subversive politics. My question is very simple and simple – can we at least on today know what the plan is and can instead of discussing what kind of things that may be significant for another moment and not this one, we can have a serious debate here, that this is interrupted, that a serious session with the government is scheduled for about 12.00 hours or 14.00 or 15.00 hours and talk about this topic, to see what actually happens in Serbia this case? Can this Parliament and these citizens who have chosen us deserve it for once in their lives?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62257	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62258	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I will ask for one notice or a question, and I will begin with the fact that information was placed in all the media a few days ago, as very important, that the presidents of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic agreed on a new session of the Security Committee. Of course, the theme is – happening in the north of KIM. On behalf of the NS Parliament Club, I ask that today and urgently scheduled a session of the Security Committee be open to the public, because I must say that in the last session, I can say so because I am bound by a statement signed on the protection of secrets, that the opposition voted for the public during the session and the ruling coalition voted for the session to be closed to the public. Today, more than ever, we see why this session was supposed to be closed to the public. We finally have to tell that people down at KIM, to stop secretly running politics, secret diplomacy, and let alone, I don't know what to call it, but false hope that they can be deceived today by those who go to the naked people and that it can be endlessly delayed. Therefore, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the Assembly, I think he has the authority to immediately convene a session of the Defence and Security Committee and to finally tell the truth to the citizens and north of KIM and all citizens of Serbia. These days, we are showered with a media blockade about who will be third in the election, who, where and what flag he set on fire, whether a concert is desirable or not in Belgrade, and down there is about people's lives. If someone thinks, including me, that they can escape responsibility today or the next hours or the next days for what's going to happen in the North KiM, they're wrong. I'm appealing and asking again, because it would be really amazing if we were discussing the next law that's here, which isn't irrelevant, but right now, what's going on in the north of KIM is much more important. It is true that in some countries in the world, according to someone here, citizens are clashing with the military, this time with KFOR and NATO. What we saw on the footage this morning, I can only congratulate those people on their courage, give them verbal and moral support, and do what we can here minimally. So, I am asking and I believe that this is the thinking of most of the MPs here, asking for an extraordinary session of the Security Committee to come to the most responsible people in this country, that no one is moving behind secret and closed sessions and that the truth is told primarily to the people in northern Kosovo and Metohija, as someone said – and to the children. Did day "d" come, did they cross those red lines? So the truth must be said, no matter how painful she is, no matter how much it costs the father of a nation or the creators of this secret policy of someone's rating. Such a policy can cost a person health and life, and so the truth must be told. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62259	The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar-Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62260	I thank the chairman. The esteemed chairman, fellow MPs, my question concerns a problem dating back to 2005, i.e. since April 2005, when the inhabited town of Mesto was struck by a flood. The settlement of Međa is located in the municipality of Žitište, which belongs to the order of the most underdeveloped municipalities. I would point out that immediately after the flood, the 50 inhabitants of Međa left their place of residence, and what I'm asking as a question to the resolution ministry is that we try together to finish the job that was then started. At this time, it is approved to buy housing from private owners who are not even translated today to new owners, which certainly creates a problem of realising the rights of those citizens living in these facilities, as well as the old owners whose tax on the property they are paying, so I would ask the Resort Ministry to find a way to solve the mentioned problem. In addition, the government's situation has led to the construction of 51 buildings that do not have a license today. I believe that there is a possibility that projects that exist could be used for legalisation because I would point out that today, in 2002, 300 fewer people live on the list. If the goal is to make a marginal place bordering Romania disappear tomorrow, then we don't have to do anything. If our goal is to keep people living in that place, to make and to work, please make a minimum effort and try to solve the mentioned problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62261	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word to exercise their right under Article 286? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we're at the end of a policy that's been under way for the last three years. I think the time has come to sit down and talk openly, to see what we need to do. We can continue to blame ourselves for who is more guilty, who is less responsible for this situation that has hit us in Kosovo and Metohija. First of all, I would like to get to know everyone in some way that the imposed guilt of Serbia and the Serbian people should not be accepted at any cost. We didn't go to anyone's country to kidnap, but they came to our country to kidnap our country, kill our citizens, and force Serbia to form a new state. Now we need to see what we need to do, whether that people there should be protected, whether the state of Serbia needs to do something. Personally, I think they're the most invited and they know best what's good for them. And here's a digression, it's best to look at the DS lines now and see how many DS MPs are sitting in benches. There's no more than 20 of them. They came to give the quorum, and when it was done, their work in parliament was finished. Here, count them. This is the attitude of parliament, or the ruling majority and DS, towards the problems this country faces. If people in these four municipalities make a decision that what Borko Stefanovic has negotiated with KFOR do not accept, then they know it is not good for them. Then what do we have to do if they're asking for the Eulex mission to be withdrawn? Well, who knows better than they do what the Eulex mission did from the moment it came in 2008. She came to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan and to form the institutions of the state of Kosovo. You can stick your head in the sand all you want, but that's the truth, people. What can we do? We can't fight the war, but we can cancel the Eulex mission. Why don't you do it? Whose interests are it that this mission still remains? They are asking for UNMIK back, asking our country to schedule a Security Council session and to respect Resolution 1244. It's all good in that resolution. I ask a simple question – give us proof that you have asked the UN Security Council for Resolution 1244 to be implemented one time so far. Give me one time that you did it. No, you lie, you deceive Serbian citizens. Basically, your goal is to get through another election. That's why you're ready to do anything. Parola is to you – we will not recognise the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but you will therefore recognise their tables, their diplomas, you will bring their customs officers, their officers, you will recognise all their attributes of statehood, and as a German, tra-la-la, you will continue to talk about that you will not recognise the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Who and how much longer do you lie to? When do you think you can schedule a session of the Serbian Parliament? It is what it is, but it was called after that resolution and you are invited to put the situation in Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda again within three months. Do we want those conclusions in the declaration that we respect or do we not? Why did you bring them? To deceive, to deceive the citizens of Serbia, not because you honestly believe it. That's the problem the state of Serbia is facing. We warned you, what will you do to avoid bloodshed in Kosovo and Metohija? To keep quiet and to talk about how you will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence? Well, that's ridiculous. I ask you again what you will do, when you will schedule a session of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62263	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62264	I ask the question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I really expect the answer first and foremost from the fact that the interest of the citizens of Serbia is to lead political competition on the problems of people in Kosovo and Metohija. As many times as we have, today in Kosovo and Metohija we live the consequences of politics related to the fates of these people there. Today, unfortunately, these people are paying the price of policies that have been used and misused this problem that has arisen for decades, which has come to a point where the solution is not simply, as some try to present here, an extreme solution to the recognition of reality and to be the end or the extreme solution to deny reality and to be the beginning of some kind of policy. Surely neither of us can be the solution. Unfortunately, the Serbian Parliament has so far shown in each of the debates that the meaning of the debate on Kosovo and Metohija is the meaning of party competitions in some kind of patriotism and the need to condemn the one who is now running politics, and to try to amnesty the one who once led politics in their name, when that policy for the result had what we live for today. I sincerely believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will answer the question of what is happening, so what is true about what is happening and what is what the Government can do in circumstances that are not so black, but are not so white, as some see, and say that the solution is simple. At the same time, I do not think that all the institutions of the country need to deal with this topic so that it becomes a political polygon for conflicting various political options and that no one offers a concrete solution, a concrete solution that involves reality, but also implies the responsibility of the state not to leave one important issue simply by claiming that it is powerless. If someone thinks they can get political points today on the KIM accident, then they haven't learned a lesson from the past and apparently didn't pay the price from the past. So, the one who led such a policy in the past I think he had to learn at least a basic lesson and know that such a policy is the result of the lives of people who are lost and the lives of people who are now tormented and heavy on KIM, but at the same time forgetting one more thing, there is responsibility for all Serbian citizens and sometimes, if some group interest prevails in someone's politics, then he has to be aware that it harms all Serbian citizens, and I don't think that anyone has the right to advocate that policy, arguing that it's some kind of policy in someone's interest and doing harm to all other citizens. Once again I appeal and believe that there is a will to discuss this matter responsibly, that there is a awareness that this issue must not be the subject of party competitions and that if it should be determined responsibility, that no one is trying to amnestize themselves, to see where the line is drawn on the basis of one policy that led the country to this, so let's say, there is a responsibility of someone else, and not to argue that the policy which is now upon the legacy of previous policies that were losers should be the result that is pure victory, then I don't think there is any responsibility for those who, if they expect anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62265	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 286? If so, please sign in. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Can I answer the question? ) National MP Dragan Todorovic throws it with a content that proves that he does not know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 286 implies that everyone has the right to request the notification or information they need to work. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Ignorance is a passing phase, and stupidity is permanent. First, please stop throwing. It obliges me to give you warning measures. Secondly, since I am obliged to take care of order on the basis of Article 27, I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe the content of the address during the session, which takes place on the basis of Article 286, as well as our mutual treatment and manner of conduct in the Hall for National Assembly sessions. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zeljko Tomic. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly Rules of Procedure of National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, in addition to representatives of Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic and Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, called for the session to be attended by Mirko Stefanovic, State Secretary at the foreign ministry. The persons the president has yet to invite will be informed during the session. We continue to work and move on to the principle search of the fourth item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE USA, PRODUCTION AND REALITY OF THE SURVEILLANCE OF BACTERION, BIOLOGICAL AND TOXIC WEAPONS AND THE DESTRUCTION OF IT YOU have received the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Security, the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, so that the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs to one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind myself that by looking after the order and consistency of the working bodies, I am notifying Members of Parliament on the basis of Article 90, and in accordance with Article 27, that all the parliamentary groups who submitted or the list of speakers or the decision of the MPs during yesterday afternoon's session or the decision of the parliamentary groups on who is the authorised representative, that this lecture is valid at this time, so that whoever wants to change the list of speakers or the authorised representative can do so until the opening of the point on the draft law, the general debate on the draft law. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Konstantin Arsenović, PUPS MP; MP Milica Vojic Markovic, DSS MP and MP Radisa Ilic, SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Before opening a principle search, two MPs would like to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62266	Mrs. Komic, Article 27. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, in my opinion. I think the institution of parliamentary issues exists to answer them. I asked you a question. It took five minutes. I think five minutes is just enough time for a necessary argument that then deserves one clear answer. Mrs. Komic, this is Resolution, Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from July 30th. Do you, as chairman here today in parliament, have enough political responsibility to leave this session that is completely contrary to what is the obligation of parliament, which must not ignore the public and, as a parliament, allow this society to step out of that living mud that parliament has previously introduced it into? Does parliament agree with child abuse at barricades? Is the seclaration okay with it that the MPs who voted for it are sitting here in the assembly, and that innocent people there are playing cannon meat in front of KFOR? Did the president send a letter yesterday saying I support you politically and financially? Is that what we're doing today? It's not Boris Tadic's fault, he's having a hard time, but we think that, as he wasn't responsible for what happened yesterday, he's the only one responsible for what's going to be tomorrow. And this Parliament and you as chairman. Please tell us -- we'll discuss toxicology laws and that's consistent with what's going on, and that will cover tear gas in northern Kosovo. You're wrong, and that's the answer. But don't act like I haven't said anything in five minutes. What I'm telling you is what millions in this country think. Seven million people are hostages to several extremists in northern Kosovo. In northern Kosovo, which is the only point in Europe where no law applies. Neither the laws of Pristina nor the laws of Belgrade. They're allowed to mobilize kids from school, they're allowed to call people who work at the hospital, the ones who are employed. We tolerate something like that. Not only are we tolerating, we've made it possible. We ask that parliament leave that policy before anyone else gets hurt. (President: Two minutes. () Say that you understand what I have asked you and answer that you disagree.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62267	Two minutes. Your reasoning is not in line with a member of the Rules of Procedure, which you have stated, nor is there any infringement of Article 27, but you have misused the right to receive a word and to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to repeat the content of the exposure to which you have the right under Article 286. I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which define the way in which the authorities or organisations request information. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62268	Articles 107 and 27. When it comes to abuse of rights, this is where it happens. The right and conduct of the procedure is an obligation, on the one hand, but on the other hand, can be misused for political purposes. The law banning production, creating supplies of bacteriological and toxic weapons and destroying them is on the agenda. The Minister's gone. You've received from several sides, as chairman, an explanation for why you should not respect the regular course of the session. We heard your argument. It's an insult to me, as well as to the citizens who chose us. If you don't think that you should listen to what we have suggested, then you continue to work and discuss with the government's authorised representative about the ban on the completion and creation of bacteriological and toxicological weapons on today as long as you want. The DSS MPs, because of the citizens who chose them and those who watch this transmission, will not participate. So much so you know. You answer how you know about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62269	Thank you. With the hope of being able to answer, there's no harm done to article 27. Your assumption is that when you can give an explanation in accordance with your political position, and not with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, it is a matter of political legitimacy and legality, which you consider to be right. It is my duty, to implement the Rules of Procedure and, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a session as scheduled and with the provisions it implies. The DSS are getting it. Please don't throw it away. Do not abuse the right to the free word and mandate of the MPs, that because of legitimate and legal political views on any issue, you are disdaining the National Assembly. Either you do it knowingly and with dignity, or from the chairman, based on the Rules of Procedure, you will have to be informed that this is a move that is thought to demean the reputation of the National Assembly. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk again about the injury of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62270	Mrs. Comic, you can't be demeaning with dignity or with less dignity. Disdaining is unacceptable as a form of behavior in every relationship, even in relation to the emissaries ivas as chairman. You didn't let me plead whether I was satisfied with your answer. I'm not satisfied, ma'am. You humiliated me, you humiliated this congregation. I ask that Parliament declare on the day of the vote, that in the day of voting, the ruling majority press the key and say – we do not think we are obliged to invite parents to take the children from the barricades. We do not think that we are obliged to tell the people. You have done everything, you have survived.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62271	Please, take care of polite treatment of other MPs and, if you feel you have the right to abuse the right to receive a word under Article 103, then you know that I have an obligation to remind you of what an inadmissible treatment is. In Voting Day, the National Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure to Article 27, which was presented by MP Cedomir Jovanovic in his presentation. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62272	Article 27 and another member I can't find, but that's why I'm asking your opinion. I invite you to take a break at this time and invite the heads of the parliamentary groups, because the three opposition parties have requested a session to be interrupted and the debate on the topic that is happening in real life outside these hermetical walls will leave consequences for all of us. Also, these events are a very clear consequence of what we warned about, the decision of this congregation. For that reason, the congregation has no right to ignore what is happening. We ask you in a nice way to call you to the National Assembly College, or whatever it is called, a body that will invite all the heads of the parliamentary groups and realize that at this point it is more important for us to discuss what is happening right now than to discuss bio-toxicological toxins, which we don't know if we own. Ignoring reality will not help solve problems. It will only make him worse, and as we warned you, and the head of our parliamentary group and all of us together during these months. Ignoring reality will only bring these people down into a much more unfavourable position at every minute or hour we miss.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62273	Thank you. You didn't point out that it was an injury. You want to make a proposal, which is on the verge of the right to receive a word based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The presidents of the National Assembly will be forwarded to your request. We're going back to work. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Justice Minister Snezana Malovic want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go. (LDP emissaries earning. I ask the People's MPs not to receive it. If we call for it, that it is right and that it is good to be applied, as well as rules, in the whole territory of Serbia, then let's start with that, to respect and apply the rules in this room. Please don't throw it away. (Dragan Todorovic from the place: Where is the Wolf? It says "Wolf." ) National MP Dragan Todorovic throws this second time today. I direct you to the stenogram of the session of the Assembly and to the more careful listening to the course of the session. I announced to Minister Malovic in the opening part of the session. I also announced and announced the notice, which you will receive in writing. So please, if you're in favour of the rights of all the citizens we all represent together, then let's all stick together to the rules that we've prescribed for ourselves. Ministerial Snezana Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62274	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament... . (Ivan Andric from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You're insulting us. You've been insulting us here for 10 minutes. We're asking you questions and you're not answering. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62275	Go on, Minister. Please, don't throw it away and allow the minister to continue her work. Minister, go ahead. Please don't throw it away. The rules that exist for all MPs, there are also for all MPs who have a policy strategy. Please don't throw it away. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62276	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present to you a bill on banning production and the creation of supplies of bacteriological and toxic weapons and their destruction. The draft law we are talking about today was proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly for adoption. It falls under those legislative activities which are in accordance with Article 16(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It confirms that the rules of international law and certified international agreements are generally accepted as an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and that they are not directly applicable. The Convention prohibiting the development of production and storage of bacteriological or biological and toxic weapons and their destruction was signed on 10 April 1972 and entered into force on 26 March 1975. The depositaries of this Convention are the United Kingdom, the United States and the former Soviet Union, or the Russian Federation. The Republic of Serbia has fully fulfilled all its obligations under this Convention. The reasons for the adoption of the laws for the application of this Convention are, above all, in the function of training the Republic of Serbia to, as a party to the Convention on the Banning and Compensation of Production and Creating Stocks of bacteriological and Toxic Weapons and Destroying, improve its capacity and ability to respond to new international requirements and standards concerning the prevention of non-state factors of structures over which the state has no control over the possession of agents, toxins, pathogens and others, which may be used contrary to the objectives of the Convention. Also, the adoption of appropriate measures, the prevention of weapons of mass destruction, which, in addition to nuclear, chemical and radiological ones, also include biologically, come after structures over which the state has no control and obligation and based on United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540, adopted in 2004. The Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Committee 1540 three reports in 2005, 2006 and 2008, on the measures taken in connection with the implementation of its commitments under the resolution. A new updated report is being prepared that will soon be submitted to the 1540 Committee, formed to monitor the implementation of this resolution. The need to adopt this law stems from the European Union questionnaire for the Republic of Serbia, Chapter 31, foreign and security policy. Since the Convention itself does not contain an appropriate protocol in which controls or verifications of the application of the Convention would be carried out, and this deficiency should be removed by new measures and activities of the Parties to the Convention, such as the regular delivery of the United Nations Support Unit, Geneva, national girls on confidence-building measures and the adoption of legislative acts on measures and means to improve the application of this Convention. These measures, above all, refer to the area of bio-security and bio-security, as well as to the development of means to combat the dangers of bio-terrorist attacks. The draft law, which before you, confirms the full commitment and commitment of the Republic of Serbia to the aim of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, i.e. to prevent the abuse of their use for activities contrary to Resolution 1540 and other international instruments, including those adopted in the fight against terrorism. Activities are also arranged, i.e. actions with biological agents and others, which are not contrary to the Convention. The issue is being settled concerning the submission of the annual girls of the Republic of Serbia to the competent body to support the application of the Convention and to the UN. The establishment of a commission to implement this law or convention is also foreseen. The draft law also determines business offences and violations, as well as the level of penalties for non-compliance with this law. In this regard, I would like to point out that the criminal code of the Republic of Serbia in Article 377 prescribes a criminal offence, as well as criminal measures in cases of illicit production, trade and possession of prohibited weapons. Finally, I would particularly like to point out Article 4(2) of this Act, that the exercise of the activity and the position of the first member, the issuing of licences, keeping records of the licences issued, supervision and other issues related to the performance of the work with the biological agents, will be governed by a special law. This implies that, as soon as possible, the competent ministry should start working on the adoption of another law in this area that will regulate the funds and measures to implement the Convention on the Banning of Development, Production and Storage of bacteriological, Biological and Toxic Weapons and Destroying of Biosafety and Biosafety. By adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia will be among the first countries in the region to regulate its obligations under the Convention and other international documents in the field of non-proliferation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62277	Do the words of the rapporteurs of the committees in charge, MP Dusan Bajatovic, chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic, rapporteur of the Committee on Environmental Protection and MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62278	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, honourable MPs, will support the Law banning production and the creation of supplies of bacteriological and toxic weapons and their destruction, for the simple reason that the title itself speaks and defines the purpose of its adoption and adoption. So he promotes our commitment to ban the use of this weapon, to mass destruction of living force and to pollute the environment. It is a little sad in the current situation for this law to speak, given the events in northern Kosovo where these funds are in some way applied to Serbia, though allowed, but they are nevertheless a product of chemical production and are not without consequences. So, this law promotes two essential our definitions, a ban on the production of biological-chemical weapons, but also allows the production of biological-chemical products for peaceful purposes, for the protection and diagnostics of treatment, without which there is no progress in these areas, but clearly and by law, strict control of the production of these funds and the way they are used. What do bio-chemical weapons characterize? First of all, they fall and have the capacity for mass destruction of living forces and the environment and therefore pose a great danger. Secondly, it is relatively easy to produce and use, which is why they require strict control in the process of production. They can even be produced in small labs. Since always, since the world exists, toxic agents have been in use, although not in some mass, but experiences from World War II and previous experiences are enough to show that these are inhuman resources, when it comes to people's lives. So, by adopting this law, we promote human relations with people and efforts to preserve the environment. And despite all my support, I want to point out one fact that we still need to be aware that there is a kind of biological-chemical war on the global scale. It is used through various chemical and other means of protection, but also richly in terms of production and productivity increases in individual products, especially agricultural products. We all know that ultimately crazy cows, modified soybeans and other modified agricultural products are the result of the use of these funds, which in an indirect way has a significant impact on human health and the environment. We know well that many biological agents, including various infectious diseases, are produced in laboratories, and then placed on the market in the plant and animal world. Unfortunately, it is the work of world powers who, at all costs, want to dominate this world, want to promote their politics and their economy at the expense of other peoples. What is very important for Serbia and what we need to do is take all the steps to make clear to this law that I believe no one will be against it, because it really has its human characteristics and its character, but I think we should take all other possible measures to protect people's lives and the environment through strict control and import of life-forms and imports of chemical products and bans on the production of certain particularly agricultural cultures that significantly disrupt the environment, but if, and I would say, well, I remember on television, a Hungarian land of production of such cultures has been shown to infertility for many years. So he's not a bit naive to this biological and chemical war that's being fought globally without the use of weapons. I end up with this, another time I'm stressing that we're going to support this law and we don't have an amendment on it either, I think it's clear enough, it points itself to a problem, and it creates opportunities for the necessary resources of this kind to be produced with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62279	Six minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the vice president. People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62280	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law prohibiting the production and creation of supplies of bacteriological or biological and toxic weapons and their destruction is a serious topic and an area that is today and how current, especially in Serbia that has felt, unfortunately, and still feels the consequences of the fact of this weapon. As for our capacities and our ability to cope with the task of preventing the use and production of biological and toxic weapons, I highly doubt that Serbs will have the strength, I would say, and the authority to engage in such a thing. As far as authority is concerned, you'll get a chance to hear what I mean later. In order for citizens who listen to this debate to have an idea of what this is about, I will convey what is fundamentally in the military manual on biological weapons. Biological weapons are microorganisms, bacteria, viruses, rickets, protoses, bacterial toxins, and some chemical matter, caused by plant diseases. It is intended for the incapacitation and destruction of humans and animals, causing diseases of humans and animals and plant cultures. Microorganisms only cause human diseases, such as typhoid, cholera, dysentery, etc., in bovine animals, swine fever, and others, and in humans and animals, they are suffering from deadly black primordials, or anthrax. Bacterial toxins are toxic substances produced as a product of the metabolism of some microorganisms that cause severe illness, death, particularly toxic toxins of botolinox and diphtheria. The causes of plant diseases are intended to cause plant disease, most grains, rust and gar are the most famous laboratory-induced diseases, and the consequences of the fact that biological weapons are exposed to large spaces and have a delayed fact. That's how the army defines biological weapons. Science and technology have made a lot of progress in bioengineering in the last 20 years. They were created in laboratories by many artificial variety of species of plants in terms of changing their natural characteristics. The use of such plants in human and animal nutrition can also cause major long-term damage to the population that are difficult to repair. It's about genetically modified organisms that we'll talk about later. Progress in biomedicine research has enabled certain dangerous bacteria and viruses to be used as biological weapons. Today, some 30 highly resistant viruses and bacteria, the cause of infectious and deadly diseases, can be used to attack certain parts of the world. For the Anthrax, otherwise a very dangerous infectious disease, there is an interesting story, beginning after the attack on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001, when the Americas panicked over the appearance of the Anthrax. What's very cover-up is the fact that it's been established that the anthrax that's been torn across America comes from actually American military labs. That's how AIDS viruses were created, Ebola, and we can't fool ourselves when it comes to these two viruses that have shaken the world's economy over the past few years, even security in the world, and it's about the pandemic of flu, birds and swine flu. All these wars that America has waged and still waged are a great cover for experimenting over entire nations, over their living spaces. The possibilities of biological weapons have opened a new chapter in the form of agro-terrorism. Agroterrorism is the destruction of plant cultures by diseases, insects, climate disorder resulting in disturbances in the process of vegetation of plants, and thus food production. One of the most dramatic examples of this state agro-terrorism and the use of so-called. Yellow rains, or defoliants by the U.S. military to destroy the plantation of green areas in Vietnam, although in 1972 the United States ratified the Convention on Biological Weapons that prohibits its supply and use. Officially in 1975, the Americans destroyed all the stockpiles of biological weapons, of course, if anyone believes what the Americans did. Speaking of these conventions and their signatories, there is simply a question of what they are for. We can, in fact, be comforted that this law has made us part of the world that takes part in the mission of protecting humanity, but that it is also the signatories of a country that did not slip into our recent history to attack and bomb us. Thus, the United States and its allies are signatories to the Convention on the Ban of the Use of Cassette Bombs, but this did not prevent them from meeting death after Serbia in 1999, of which Serbian citizens are killed today, especially children of these lagging bombs. The United States is also signatories to the Convention ban on the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium. What happened in 1999? The best rating of the overture, the biowar with impoverished uranium was given by the director of the GAK "The People's Front", Mr. Dusan Stanojevic, after returning from a meeting with colleagues in Kosovo Mitrovica and obtaining official data on the sick persons who observed the health centre. Here's what Mr. Stanojevic says – KIM is a Serbian Hiroshima, a crime at Cosmet that caused NATO missiles enriched with impoverished uranium exceeds all the world's past tragedies, and the consequences with which it will have to live 60 generations to come are neither imagined nor described. During the bombing on KIM territory, 21 tonnes of impoverished uranium was dropped, the data was taken from NATO archives in Brussels. Here's how one weapon turns into biological. The cause of severe fatal illness, the cause of a large number of sterility will contribute to demographic change in these areas according to the idea of the Pentagon. The United States even trampled the UN Charter when it set out to bomb Serbia in 1999. Speaking of conventions and charters, I'm asking a question to the government's representative -- who should Serbia complain if, by any chance, God forbid, is exposed to an attack by a country? Does the UN? And what will the UN do, what have they ever done against states that have knowingly violated all possible conventions, declarations, charters in the bombing of our country? Are there sanctions imposed on a country for that? They're not, of course, because the world's gendarme, America can kill whoever it wants to kill, poison whoever it wants to, irradiate it with poor uranium. Another important issue is raised here, which touches the obligations of this law on the prohibition of the production and creation of supplies of bacteriological, or biological and toxic weapons and their destruction. How Serbia will treat its NATO partner on the basis of an October 5th agreement, and there are two last SOFRA, which concerns crossing through Serbia's NATO pact troops. So, their retention in Serbia, the transport of weapons and other means that we can count biological weapons. Shall we then appeal to the legality and constitutional order, or will the American echelons be untouchable? We know well that all possible damage done will be paid by the state of Serbia, as the state of Serbia pays, we all know that. Here is what is said to be a member of the 10th agreement, which is very important for the introduction into the country of hazardous substances, i.e. biological and toxic weapons, I quote: "the provision of reserves, materials and other assets of the US government and its partners in the agreement, namely private military companies that are imported and exported will not be subject to customs or any other control by Serbian authorities. The U.S. Army and the private companies it is engaged in co-operation can freely import into Serbia anything it deems necessary, including various types of weapons, undermining - dangerous materials without any verification." What do you think, by any chance, during such a transport through Serbia, some deadly viruses or some kind of plant disease that would decimate our and such a ruined agricultural production or endanger people's lives, the damage certainly won't pay for the Pentagon, probably in the spirit of friendship of our two countries, regardless of what American soldiers are holding Serbs at gunpoint at KIM. Let's just look at what paragraph 2 of point 7 of this famous SOFRA agreement signed in the same year 2006, quote: "aircraft, means of transport and U.S. ships are free of control". Now, gentlemen, take this law of yours to save humanity, read Article 3 (1) and 2) where literally it is forbidden to quote: "export, import, resport, carry out transport, transit, cargo, etc., biological weapons, or toxic weapons". Now, you, with this law, stand in front of the American convoy and carry him out. Do you know what would happen? You'd pass as that Macedonian minister that the Americans ran over him in the middle of Skopje. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, there are developments which and how they can affect us, our environment, and none of the competent authorities are responding, as if they are aware of something that is part of a long thought-out plan, globalisation, planning, the number of inhabitants on the planet, taking into account energy resources and food production, and then it is no wonder when the truth slowly begins to come out and about genetically modified organisms and the code of alimony, about the spread of very harmful ingredients from the aircraft, which leave behind very strange traces in the atmosphere. It's the so-called. "chenico trace", or chemical traces, a phenomenon that has appeared in the last 20 years ago, and with us since a few years ago. Independent researchers, meaning, not from Serbia, but from Germany, Italy, France, even from America and other countries of the world, have found that these chemical traces that remain in the sky, after passing the plane for hours and slowly spreading over the sky. They contain, simply not to believe, heavy metals, bacteria, enzymes used in DNA modification processes, then there are fungi, germs, pesticides, micro-plasms, insect larvae that don't belong to the location where they are thrown out, as well as some forms of artificial life. In time, the population starts to feel certain symptoms that worsen the general state of health and the fall of immunity, and this may be the answer to a number of questions from our farmers who notice that something strange is happening to their crops, which simply in full vegetation burns up and drys up, or signal the appearance of strange insects, until then unseen, destroying the crops and most of them immune to more insecticides. Somehow not planned, at first sight, although it is not by chance involved in this story and the "Monsanto" leading corporation in the production of genetically modified organisms, by protecting the patent for a gene resistant to aluminium, and aluminum is actually the main ingredient of these chemical traces that I was just talking about. And so we come up with a code of alimetariums that contains everything that violates the natural balance of the entire living world on earth, which is the production of genetically modified organisms, genetic engineering, the production of seeds that will not be able to reproduce from itself, from which the intention of a great world food producer on earth is hidden, and thus the control of the human population on earth. Let us not forget, too, that one quarter of the African population infected with HIV, an artificial virus created in American military laboratories, will literally wipe out the African population for the next 100 years. When it comes to biological weapons, it's not just about bacteria, viruses, protozoir and ketzers, bacterial toxins, or plant disease inducers, like rust and gar in cereals. It is also thought of the use of food that carries great risks to the health of the entire nation, which is precisely the case with genetically modified seed material and genetically modified organisms that are extremely dangerous and harmful to use. They were created in laboratories with the intention of making huge profits, and in fact they are great evil for mankind. Scientists who have studied the quality of food from genetically modified organisms have come up with a terrible discovery by studying rodents, or rats, since they give birth to several generations in a short time and that genetic mutation can be monitored. So rats are fed with food that comes from genetically modified organisms. After the third generation, they began to experience sterility, and a few dozen types of serious illnesses appeared in the next generation. It's the best example of what's in the future for us if the state lets something like that happen. Of course, it is well known who is behind the code of alimony and monsanto. In America, everything works perfectly when it comes to money, power, prestige and control. Why am I pointing this out? Because Serbia is in an invisible biological war and administration due to uncontrollable cultivation of genetically modified soybeans to Serbia is facing a major accident. It just sounds frightening that out of the total controlled soybeans in Serbia, 92% were sown with seeds genetically modified. And where this soybeans will end, the question arises, where the institutions, the inspections, the agencies, the state administrations, state secretaries are going to confiscate seed material in time, not now that people have exhausted themselves and sown certain areas. It seems to me like it's consciously done. What if they controlled other cultures that were most represented in wartime production. See what this 2001 move, or imports of 50 tonnes of genetically modified soybeans from America, remember under the auspices of Ivana Dulic Markovic, later Minister of Agriculture, when Mladjan Dinkic. Then the panda's box was opened, which will hardly be closed. The conclusion is simple, long-term consumption of such food will create effective biological weapons that will leave one particular population in the heritage of sterility, degenerated offspring, and severe diseases. This is a good opportunity to ask a representative of the government, although I was expecting a minister of defence or a minister of environmental protection here, in the end of the case of the Minister of Health, but the minister may also know how to respond. So this is a good opportunity to ask the government's representatives why the 1,000-ton bomb in the Star Forest has not yet been removed from NATO bombing. They haven't even done the field tests and shooting at the place where the bomb is located, that one ton and a thousand kilograms. The Department of Defense gave an explanation that there was no funds in the budget, and the Americans, your great friends, ours, didn't even want to reveal to you what the bomb was about, what that bomb was carrying in it, to make it easier to make a plan for its demining. Also, what about the National Strategy for Control and Population Protection against radiation from uranium bombs? Why don't you start controlling the health of the population? You're probably afraid of the defeating results, the large number of cancer patients, the merits of the United States. After, probably, someone has the courage to say that our future is in NATO's alliance. For the sake of time, I won't be able to look back at some members of the law that we think have to suffer certain changes, to avoid the possibility of ambiguous interpretation. We'll discuss it more, of course, in an amendment debate, and hopefully you'll accept them most of the time. In your reasons for passing the law, you stated that the aim of this law is to enable the Republic of Serbia to acquire capacity and ability to respond to international requirements regarding preventing non-state actors from coming into possession of agents, toxins and pathogens, which can be used to create biological weapons. According to this argument, it turns out that we as an old country were insecure, that we had never done anything like that and that we had just stepped into civilization with this law, which is also not true. Also, there's no mention of preventing government officials from coming into possession of these dangerous substances and abusing them. There are many examples that very state-owned factors have participated in many of the actions that have come to grips with this nation’s head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62281	Before I ask if any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the mandated representative of the LDP parliamentary group, MP Zoran Ostojic. I ask, does any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? If so, please sign into the electronic system. No, I don't. ) In that case, I would like to inform you that they are in agreement with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search of the application for a word, in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the DSS and parliamentary groups of the SRS. We move on to the part of the session when the right to speak in principle of the search has MPs in order, and on the draft law on the prohibition of completion, production and creation of supplies of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons and their destruction. The first speaker is Dusan Maric, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the greatest flaw of this law is that it will be applied selectively. If any citizen of the Republic of Serbia finds biological weapons, he will answer and be punished under this law. However, if one of the NATO pact's soldiers deliberately or accidentally throws out five kilos of some biological weapon, 10 or 110 thousand people die from that poison, he will not bear any responsibility under this bill, because in July 2005, Serbia signed this famous NATO pact agreement, which among other things, NATO troops, on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, guarantees complete legal untouchableness, no matter what they do or whatever criminal activity they commit. Two essential questions are raised. The first question is what is the purpose of adopting this law, if it does not apply, if it is not applied to those who are objectively threatened by the greatest danger, according to the NATO Pact and the Americans, who produce biological weapons, are the first in the world to use this biological and toxic weapon against the Republic of Serbia and its citizens and who are the only ones in the near future who can use it further. The second question is, what has the NATO Pact earned this privilege? Is it by bombing the Republic of Serbia, by occupation of KIM, by killing about 3,000 Serb and Albanian civilians, whether by wounding 15,000 people, by killing 80 Serbian and Albanian children, or perhaps by shooting cities and villages in Serbia with missiles containing poor uranium? According to the NATO Pact itself, this alliance has thrown 420,000 missiles into the Republic of Serbia, a total of 22,000 tonnes. Also, according to NATO's recognition of the pact, 31,000 missiles contained this poored uranium, which is a radioactive and toxic weapon. According to the Serbian Army, 45,000 uranium-deprived missiles were dropped on Serbia, a total of 15 tonnes, while the Russians claim that there were as many as 90,000 and 30 tonnes of this poor uranium. Serbia was also used in aggression, with radioactive use, by biological and chemical weapons, which is also indicated by a handbook carrying the date of November 22nd 2009, which NATO troops receive when they arrive at KIM. The handbook was signed by Colonel Oswaldo Bizari, and was first discovered by former Italian Admiral Falko Akamen, formerly chairman of the Defence Committee, in the Italian parliament. The title of this book is "Nuclear Biological Chemical Manual", and on its cover is the head of the dead body. If NATO hadn't bombed Serbia with biological and chemical weapons, I don't think they'd be jumping into their own stomachs, putting biological and chemical weapons in the title of this manual. Otherwise, in the manual, besides the rest, it writes - stay away from tanks, vehicles and buildings affected by NATO Pact missiles, wear a protective mask, if you work 500 metres away from the tank, vehicle or building affected by a missile, because the inhaling of particles is practically related to the health consequences in the long term, including cancer and deformation of newborns. These consequences can only become visible a few years later. Next, food and water will become inedible due to contamination, so do not eat food that is not controlled. Do you know what's most tragic about all this? It is that this warning is not divided into people in Kosovo, neither Serbian civilians, nor Albanian civilians, who are even bigger guinea pigs, the greater victim of this NATO intervention. That this manual is not just written, according to the following data, according to the Pristina list "Express", Kosovo residents are the first in the region to die from malignancies. Annuals in Kosovo since malignancies caused by these various radiations and toxins die about 5,000 people, three times more than it was in 1998, when 1,500 died. The following data, of the 225 Italian soldiers who were in KFOR's KIM mission, 45 of them had already died, and 20 of those who were alive were born, or children who had genetic anomalies. Otherwise, in June 1999, the UN had a report on the consequences of the bombing of Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia, their official Bakari Kantea submitted the report, but since the UN participates in the crime, the report was hidden from the public. Next, same behavior recorded by WHO. According to British physicist Dr. Kate Baverstok, WHO, 2001, from a UN report on the bombing of the Republic of Serbia, on the harmful consequences of the bombing, has dropped a total of eight chapters related to the impoverished uranium, biological weapons and chemical weapons. Otherwise, a total of 111 locations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have been shot by these missiles, 107 of which are located in Kosovo, four are located in southeast Serbia, only these four are partially as possible, they have been decontaminated, and those in Kosovo are not even touched. According to the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut", which occurred six years after the bombing, cancer rates in central Serbia increased by 22% and women by 16%. At the same time, the incidence of prostate cancer increased by 60%, urinary bladder by 37%, colon by 29%, lung cancer by 16%. In women, there was an increase in colon cancer by 25%, lung by 24%, uterus by 17% and breast cancer by approximately 7%. I will mention here, out of thousands of accidents, just the Jovic family case from Grace village at Vuchitrn. On the same day that their only son died of cancer and cancer was given due to radiation, it was found that his two-year-old daughter had a brain tumor, also due to excessive radiation from these NATO pact bombs. NATO's pact also used poor uranium in the bombing of BiH. I'll just list a few data, so the public knows what the dangers are. That's where they shot 15 locations. Most of all, they were targeting the Hadzic military-remont service. Before the war, Serbs and Muslims lived together in Hadzic. At the beginning of the war, under the circumstances, Muslims moved out of Hadzic. In 1995, NATO pact bombed Hadzic. At 15 hectares of this remonting facility, four missiles per metre per square metre were extradited to Sarajevo 10,800 pieces of these toxic, toxic missiles. You know what happened? When Serbia's Sarajevo was handed over to Muslims, Serbs from Hadzic moved to Bratunac and Muslims from Hadzic returned to their homes. Now these poor people, Muslims and Serbs, share the same fate, both of them test rabbits, and each other dying of an epidemic of malignancies. Only in the first three years after moving to Bratunac, 300 people who moved from Hadzic died in Bratunc. Otherwise, on Italian TV RAI, on January 5th 2004, a show "In the first plan" was broadcast on BiH cancer, and then a representative of the Red Cross, Paolo Djanpitro, said that 50 children who were poisoned by this biological, chemical, bacteriological and radiological weapons were being transferred from the Balkans annually to Italy and that the number of these children is increasing each year. A colleague of Radisa Ilic spoke of these major infectious diseases being the most massive, AIDS, swine and bird flu, in fact, biological weapons produced in American laboratories. But worse still, vaccines allegedly treated with these diseases have also been found to be produced in American laboratories and contain these toxins. That's exactly the explanation that more people died from vaccination against swine flu, against bird flu, than from these diseases themselves. As far as America and its pharmaceutical companies are concerned, in the production of biological weapons, I'll show you in the case of swine flu. The vaccine against swine flu was made a year before the Americans let this disease into circulation. Secondly, it has been found that in vaccines against swine flu produced by the US company Baxter is a swine flu. Third, more people, as I said, died of the vaccine than the vaccination against swine flu. Fourthly, there were no pigs on the entire globe who had so-called "hospital disease." Pig flu. Fifth, the swine flu virus couldn't have been created naturally. Here's how it could have only happened. I'm asking you to listen so you can figure out how this could have happened. So first, some bird in North America had to be infected with any flu virus. After that, that sick bird had to fly across the Atlantic to Europe. In Europe, she had to get in touch with the pigs, infect those pigs with the virus she brought in from America. After that, that virus had to mutate. A bird from America had to come back and get in touch with the pigs again and infect the virus that mutated it. After that, the infected bird flies to Asia twice. In Asia, he makes contact with Asian pigs, transmits the virus to them, contacts Asian birds, and transmits the virus to them. The virus mutates with both of them, so it can be passed on to a man. After that, this almighty phoenix bird from America comes back into contact with Asian pigs, with three viruses in it, flies across Asia, flies across Europe, flies across the Atlantic and behold wonders, goes right to Mexico and there comes the first man to get sick of this swine flu. In the end, in order for this fairy tale to happen, in order for this to be possible, there has to be one pig in Asia that's infected with that flu in which that virus mutated. A pig like that doesn't exist. So, the point is clear. The recipe is very clear. The pharmaceutical American mafia first devises a deadly virus, then designs a vaccine against the virus it also puts the virus in. After that, it goes into mass production and causes an epidemic of various diseases to spread its vaccines and sell them. Your proof is that seven billion euros were earned at the sale of a pig flu vaccine in just one year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62283	It was used 12 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by the MP Dusanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62284	In time to warn, so as not to interfere with the mind, about the reasons for this law, we're talking about weapons of mass destruction. We're talking about this weapon at a time when barricades happen so heavy things for the Serbian people by the United States, but this law also concerns Donald Rumsfeld and Iraq and the news that biological weapons are being produced in Iraq, and it was later found out that there was no such weapon. But Iraq got run over. This law also concerns the fact that there are almost no criminal provisions. Imagine, a business offense, just a business offense for our citizens, and for Americans when they pass their contingents of soldiers with such weapons there is no punishment. Let's remind ourselves, there's a man named Bakari Kantea, the head of the UN's human environment program. Man's environment and toxins are in a natural relationship. He was in 1999 while there was a bombing of the Republic of Serbia. They've made a 72-page report, and 70 of the UN's sides have moved away, so they can't see what's been done. Here's what the UN representatives found, what they were hiding and, imagine, revealed by American journalist Robert Parsons. What did he reveal? Aired food, 9,450 tonnes of nuclear waste, was dumped on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Do you know who threw it? The ones you waited here yesterday to celebrate 130 years of friendship. You measure friendship with tones of impoverished uranium and toxic substances that have been dumped on the Republic of Serbia. What else did that reporter say? It would be good for the public to know, i.e. to remind the public where the most caused these ecological damages are biological, chemical, toxic, nuclear and all other means – Panchevo, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Bor. What died? It is said this - the atmosphere and soil in the former SRJ are permanently polluted with toxic materials due to the bombing of industrial and chemical complexes and the use of weapons with impoverished uranium. What are the consequences? An increase in carcinogenic disease, leukemia, will increase the number of spontaneous abortions and malformations of newborns. We have over 300,000 people down the list by nine years, and yesterday someone celebrated 130 years of friendship with those who kill the Serbian people. What died and where are the biggest problems? It is not only from uranium but also from some substances called polychlorobiphenyls - PCBs, high-cancerogens and responsible for immune diseases. That's what dominates Serbia today. Where was it? In electrical transformer stations and in numerous oil refineries. Consequences of the spread of cadium, metallicized alive, the greatest poison of all time, irradiated food, thousands of tons of uranium in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in particular, etc. Who knew? The American journalist says -- he knew Bill Clinton. A monument was built for him in Pristina. Let me just remind you of one more fact. The Dosmanlia government gave the U.S. location on Dedinj a few years ago, where Marshallat was. They came, they destroyed everything, they cut down the trees. Then came the other team, took off a three-foot thick layer of ground, drove off somewhere. After seven months, he returned a new land three metres thick. When it hit, they started to build one, the largest military base on the top of Dedinj. The embassy is created, even the workers are irradiated, and when they come in and out, and the site looks like every U.S. military base in Afghanistan, and looks like the one that is now, thank God, abandoned next to Brcko. We're passing the law. Is such a law exist in our enemies of the NATO Pact, the European Union? What do they respect about this international convention? All they respect is that there is a headquarters in The Hague of BTVC, an international organisation that deals with the suppression of chemical, biological, nuclear and other weapons. What do you want to show by adopting such a law, a peaceful policy? When the Americans brought you to power, the first thing they did was empty Vinci. In three stages, the destruction of Vince was done. It was all done with loans or voluntary contributions from the United States. I was expecting some bill of law to form a group that would pick up all these toxic substances, store and send them to Washington, because it's theirs, it's not ours, it doesn't grow on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's what they threw at us, to pick it up so that it could come back to them, let them rub their heads with those gifts. I hope you didn't make out with Mrs. Mary yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62285	The People's Messenger, Paja Momcilov, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Justice Minister, the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this law, it is clear to you, and this could be concluded from the opening presentation of the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Ilic. I could ask myself, "Why?" We are obliged to deliver such an answer in a clear form. First, it is completely unclear for us to discuss this law in today’s day, when we have far more important problems facing this society. We believe that the law is too high, unnecessary, especially at a time when our citizens in Kosovo survive what they survive. What I have to tell you is, we can't understand that you're making one of these little, short, defective laws in a situation where he's already completely outdone. This law has 10 members. You're a lawyer, when you read the title of the law itself, it says well, I'll read it, although everyone knows - about the ban on perfecting production and the creation of supplies of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons and their destruction. Find me a single member who's talking about destruction. Please, here's what I'm asking you, you have to answer - which member are you treating with what law is in the title? These are your laws, ridiculous, illogical, and you, as minister of justice, have been given to defend such defective paper. It's a real shame. In the absence of better suggestions, don't deliver this to us either. That's what we're asking. What are we asking you for? Because yet this country must rise up and not be a banana republic courting another more powerful, writing such laws. Of course, now I've made a hard accusation. I need to explain all this. Madam Minister, you read the dates when this was adopted, when it was signed, when it was ratified, from whom and where. A committee meeting is held in December to discuss this. A preparation conference took place in April. Have you seen what US Ambassador Laura Kennedy has said about what the key problems are today regarding the application of these measures? She pointed out three problems: to check the efficiency and care of their application, to build a global capacity to prevent infectious diseases at global level and third, to prevent bioterrorism. How does this law of yours correspond to three key problems that are highlighted in the committee that should be considered? My predecessors also explained the genetic engineering that we are facing today, which and how it affects the problem that the law is trying to deal with in this freakic way. It's interesting, when you've already passed the law, the convention itself, you know better, probably than I do, there are 15 members. Here, I warn you -- why didn't you put in the law what was covered by the 5th member of the convention, that countries are obliged to if they notice a breach of these provisions to report to the Security Council that violation and to seek debate in the Security Council on the violation of these measures. Serbia, unfortunately, was in NATO's aggression a polygon in violation of the provisions of this law. My predecessors talked about it. I'm not going into it in detail right now. I'll remind you only of the consequences, it's my debt as a doctor and it's my debt as a representative of the citizens, who innocently lost their lives to a single honour called cancer, which eats Serbia today. Today, more than 30,000 people suffer from cancer in Serbia annually. Today, in that same Serbia, 22,000 die from the cancer. The increase is more than 20% compared to before NATO aggression. This government has never talked about the biological threat of a nation, which we can look at from the census report, although incomplete, where again the whole truth is not told to the people, but said – less is born. One of the reasons is for certain that the sterility of our premises is these, and it is also that in connection with the weapons that have been used biologically, which have been applied together with radioactive and chemical. Someone will say, "Do you have any proof?" Of course, never without proof and we don't talk, and evidence is the key interview of the 1999 Spanish pilot, who gives the list, not to quote it, you'll believe my word, there's no need to waste time, where he says that NATO committed an unprecedented atrocities on these grounds and that he was throwing chemical, biological and radiological weapons. The statement stands, and no one has denied it. It's never been denied. Now comes the question – what did the state of Serbia do to support the statements of the direct participants, who bombed us, raise the issue before the Security Council? Did the professional public, my colleagues and my doctors respond to the task? Have we been silent, as the state has kept quiet, not to be resented by America, NATO, globalistic terrorists? We didn't. We did what we could and how much in our power. That was mentioned here, in a few studies. Now I'm going to warn you about the public with these tests. In Kosovo, it was observed, very quickly, that there was an increase in the number of births of children with mutilation. A very large number of new cases of cancer have occurred. Then a team at the Gynaecology and Accumulation Clinic decided to examine it. She applied to our country, to the Ministry of Health for a project approved. He was called – the frequency of spontaneous abortions, premature births and pregnancy development disorders in women in KIM and their newborns after NATO bombing. The Ministry approved this project. It carried out about 27,000 dinars annually to achieve the project. The first support, back in 2007, in addition to the ministry, and you can see how they supported this project, the Ministry of Environment Development also allowed the first studies to be conducted in Vinca and VMA in laboratories. What did they find out? Undoubtedly, in the fruit water of pregnant women and umbilical blood were found poored uranium, along with other toxic products. What happens after that? In Subotica, in the genetic laboratory, thanks to Dr. Jasmine Durakovic, you have and I will quote one of her statements. She said - we worked almost in secret. The results are devastating. The most severe genetic imbalances, genetic errors produced by external aggression, have pointed to the real chaos of genetic material, unimaginable to human species. I won't read any further. What happened when it was announced to our gynecologist meeting, which we held last year in Zvecan? Police broke into Dr. Jasmine Durakovic's lab and banned her from reporting that data. It's our sad destiny and our reality. This law, watch out, we won't vote because of the offensive statement you make in your explanation, how you perfect the Convention. You're so far from the modern problems of the people who brought this convention. I'll also tell you, when the American embassy is up and the ground is off, it has to be done at four locations in southern Serbia. The International Community would have to do so in Kosovo, if it really wants to carry epithets to take care of people and advocate democracy. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62287	Ten minutes and 40 seconds have been used. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62288	Mrs. Komic, I use the opportunity of the Rules of Procedure and I appeal to Article 27, the part relating to the obligation of the chairman to take care of the course of the session, just to draw your attention. The tear gas is thrown at the Serbs at Kim. KFOR says he received an order from...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62289	People's MP, please don't abuse your rights. (Zoran Krasic: Let me explain. It's not abuse. You can see no one's gonna sit in your O.R. You're abusers. People's MP, please don't abuse the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP, talk about possible tragic events, in your word, give me your word that I'm talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, is demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly and mocking all those who are really in a difficult situation. Please don't do this. (Zoran Krasic: I invite you to take care of the order. They're asking the doctor for 45 people's help. The Serbs are asking for help. People's MP Zorana Krasic, please do not disturb the session of the National Assembly. I also ask you, on behalf of those for whom you take your word, think of them, and not of how, by breaking the procedure, you just say what you want. I'm really asking you. (Zoran Krasic: This is not a breach of procedure, this is a scandal. Where are your MPs? Why don't you say Boris Tadic banned the media from reporting this? Shame on you. ) The National MP disturbs the session’s order and insists that I impose criminal measures. I take care of the order in the congregation and take care of myself within the framework of what are the obligations and responsibilities of the chairmanship. If you want to cause an incident, it will be disabled for you. (Zoran Krasic: Give me a warning, so what, is there a bigger incident than what you're doing? And your people get killed out there. If we save one life, if we save a Serb's life, it'll be a success. ( b) National MP, no one in such a way has done any good for those who believe that by noise, insult, and violation of the rules, he protects and defends. Do no harm or disorder at the National Assembly session. (Zoran Krasic: Give me a reminder. Why don't you give me a warning? It's your right as chairman of the National Assembly. The People’s Messenger continues to throw away and ask why I do not give him a warning. That is why, MP, for taking care of the order at the National Assembly session with full awareness of what problems Serbia is facing. Your behavior is inadmissible and inappropriate for a session of the National Assembly. (Zoran Krasic: What did Tadic have a secret meeting with the media? I ask you to stop violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MP, please remember, too, that no one here is afraid when you yell, and that what you're going to yell and yell, throw yourself out of place, will in no way make it impossible for me to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62290	Mrs. Komic, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly right now. First of all, the MP, Mr. Zoran Krasic, who, in some ways, has been impressed by this Assembly, did not shout, as you said, but voiced a protest in the name of Serbs with KIM. I ask you not to do this and as your colleague, Vice-President of the Assembly, and as a MP who at this time, along with all the MPs of the SRS, is expressing enormous concern for the citizens below. Mr Krasic did not report at the time when he wanted to, as you would like to present it to the public to make an incident or anything, but at a time when, like all of us, information came from people, and you should know and know Mr. Odalovic, who is sitting next to you, that a Serbian radical and president of one municipality, the municipality of Zvecan at KIM, Mr. Dobric, when information arrived that over 40 Serbs, and among them there are young people, women and children, asked for help in hospitals.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62291	People's MPs, please do not abuse the serious problem of violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The explanation and information, no matter how shaken, justifies a breach of procedure, does not stand. (Natasa Jovanovic: you are not shaken. Your kids aren't down there. They're somebody else's. No, I'm just explaining to you that you can't violate the procedure because you feel that you have rights because of an emotional or political attitude. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to exercise my right under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, indeed most well-intentioned and unwilling to enter with anyone in any verbal conflict, ask the chairman to accept the SRS proposal to interrupt the National Assembly session, respecting the importance of all the points of the agenda that are under way, to convene a meeting of the heads of parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to come out with a common position on what is the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in relation to truly tragic events in the north of KIM. Simply, we would be the only country in the world in which a parliamentary debate takes place in a situation where a part of its citizens risk their lives. So, we really do ask you the most well-meaningly, and we think that you and we feel the same concern and responsibility for Serbs living in North KIM. So there won't be any damage to the state, there won't be any damage to parliament, at least a session of the National Assembly will be interrupted for a moment, to organise a meeting of the heads of parliament groups and to see together how we can help Serbs in the north of KIM, whose lives are obviously at risk, since KFOR has decided to remove barricades in the north of KIM by force. I am convinced that Mrs. Justice is also in agreement with that idea. I don't think she cares about sitting in the National Assembly and listening to the debate on the draft laws that are still not so dry for the state of Serbia at the moment, that the session of the National Assembly could not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62293	Thank you. The proposal was repeated on the basis of Article 27, and as I replied, I explained that the proposal was forwarded to the National Assembly president, and I thank you for the re-proposed proposal, and that meeting of the heads of Parliament clubs will be held. If none of the representatives of the parliamentary clubs have a proposal for a session with the current topic, then it will be my proposal, but it will all be done according to the rules and in accordance with the procedure. I thank you, given that MP Ivan Andric also had a similar proposal, so that after consulting with the president of the National Assembly, they will be informed. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62294	I hope the Rules of Procedure are still in place. Article 107 doesn't allow you to insult anyone. The pig screams, and Zoran Krasic presents the political attitudes of the SRS. It's totally unacceptable for us, Mrs. Comic, in conditions where terror is being committed against the Serbs in KIM, that you insult here... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62295	National MP, you cannot abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on a subject of agreement and consensus that the subject which is for the National Assembly is for the competent executive authorities and for all those who have a burden of responsibility to lead the state. National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic has a word, and after that, a national MP, Dusanka Plecevic. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: You insult the MPs of the people. Do you want the word Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic? If he can't talk about KIM, let him talk to his mother. ) I ask the People’s Parliament to not insult fellow Members and to behave in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (The Prophet of Radeta, from the city: The traitors, shame on you. ) The People’s Parliament, the Prophet of Radeta, cannot behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and provisions that bind us all to polite treatment. Does the MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic want a word? No, I don't. ) Does Dušanka Plečević want the word of the People's Parliament? No, I don't. ) Does the People's MP Petar Jojic want the word? National MP Petar Jojic is extremely insulting to the MPs in the session room and I give him a warning. (SRS emissaries left the National Assembly session. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić, does he want a word? Yeah. ).
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62296	My colleagues and colleagues, a few colleagues and colleagues, as we said, happened, but the hypocritical policy of the ruling majority is best seen here. We want to talk about the law? All right, the law needs to be passed, it's our international obligation. We don't have a chemical or biological weapon because we destroyed it by donation from the U.S. government, but okay. While there's another manipulation and the loss of Serbs, you want to talk about this law now. After this, I think, there's going to be a seagoing law, a seafaring, but you're not in the O.R. So that the ruling majority's representative is not in the O.R. is proof that they feel it's pointless to continue this session in this situation, but it continues. I have to notice there's a law on the agenda regarding weapons, and the government sent us a Justice Minister. Was it not normal for the defence minister to come to defend this law, to come to the defence minister who brought the Chiefs of Military Intelligence to the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, some time ago, to report to us what happened in Jarinj? That report was filed and we all know what was said there, and we all know that it's the opposite of what was sold to the media as a story, and we all know that we agreed that this session would happen again, and we all know that it would be pointless if it was closed to the public, because that's what we already had. We all know what's going on down there today, and we're going to keep talking about chemical and biological weapons that we don't need to produce and that we're supposed to destroy, which we can't normally produce because we're the only power plant that's been working on, that's being moved from Mostar to Serbia, that we're disabling. It's simple, the work of the Assembly, which has nothing to do with what's going on outside and outside this building, continues. This is our main observation and main warning, that such a policy of dishonest European integration compromises the very idea of Europe, and this is what happens these days when we are served research by which this mood of Serbian citizens for European integration or Euro-Atlantic integration has fallen below 50%. In Kosovo, at barricades, where people have to come because they have a job obligation, regardless of whether they are sick, whether they are able to handle it, whether they are older women or younger men, another manipulation is happening to Serbs for the sake of votes here. President of the Republic, Tadic says -- it is about using these people for party purposes, for some future elections. Let me remind you that the president is the so-called president. Head of the district, Mr. Nedeljkovic of the DS. Does he also use what is happening in Kosovo because of some future elections? You know, the world is laughing at us. If we're looking for an investigation of what happened in Jarinj when the use of firearms and the wounding of more people occurred, and that world knows that our national authorities, the National Security Council, the President of the Republic half an hour after that event, had a report on what happened and who started it first, and that's clear at that Security Committee session, if the world knows that we know who started first, and we say, we're looking for an investigation to determine who started it, then I think we're absolutely destroying the little credibility that we have left, if we have left. Why is the world still laughing at us? Because one government minister in more statements, depending on the mood, KFOR, top security authority in Kosovo under the military-technical agreement, to remind you, declares the enemy side and the military, and another minister in the same government says we must co-operate with KFOR, that it is a guarantee of the security of Serbs etc. Two completely contradictory assessments by two ministers from the same government and both from the same party. Let's say they're from different parties, so I understand, but from DS. I mean the foreign minister and the defence minister, whose presence today, not because of this law, was necessary. Yeah, we're laughing at the world, that's our reality. How are we gonna get out of this? (President: National MP, I have an obligation to remind you of the subject of the agenda, as well as to remind you that there is a foreign minister for this law. I can go back to the birds and pigs that flew across the Atlantic because there were such discussions here, so you didn't warn that it was out of the agenda. I don't want to talk about birds and pigs and who's here to infect whom. Maybe the goal is to talk about it, but people are watching this, they know what's going on down there, and they appreciate our seriousness from it. If you want to stop me from talking about what I'm saying, you can warn me one more time. I'll be a disciplined MP, but I remind you that we've heard all sorts of stories here, so you didn't warn anyone. All right, the foreign minister is in charge. If the foreign minister were here, we could talk about something that is of interest to citizens who are looking at us far more than a ban on the production of weapons that we can't produce, and the destruction of weapons that we've already destroyed. On the other hand, we need to get back to reality and to what life is. We've been recommended to get candidate status. We of the LDP have helped, often many times more than you have helped each other, to get to that. The last step remains to obtain candidate status in early December. You can write to the media you control that we have already received it, but it is clear that it says that we will get it on condition that the dialogue with Pristina continues and that the implementation of the agreements already reached. These reached agreements are an agreement on the customs stamp, an agreement on freedom of movement, which includes ID cards and tables and an agreement on parent books. The dialogue, the chief negotiator says, is delayed, not interrupted. All right. We said we wouldn't continue the dialogue until they got rid of customs at checkpoints 1 and 31. They're not going to move, I guess that's clear to everyone. That means we don't want to run for office. If we don't want to run for office, let's go to the election right now so we don't waste any time. Why wait till December, if we don't get that, if you don't want to do what's left for the candidacy. For the start date of the negotiations, these are the conditions that will certainly fall upon the burden of the future government, but at least the candidacy to win, if we all worked so hard to get to this. It's normal, then, if you want to win the candidacy, to do more than what you do when it comes to the freedom of movement on KIM. It is often said that KFOR is not statusally neutral. I remind you that the military-technical agreement states that KFOR Commander interprets all regulations and laws if there is agreement. I remind you that it says here that it can take all the measures it considers necessary if it needs to protect the people of KIM and KFOR members. After all, I ask you openly from the ruling majority – is freedom of movement and open road status neutral or is it essentially showing status? I think the path that people are moving towards is completely statusual. It's KFOR's authority. Why are you pushing these people into conflict with KFOR when you know how it's gonna end? Or, by doing so, you send a shocking message, in the sense that the state doesn't control those structures that it normally pays. Yesterday, President Tadic said they would continue to have financial support. So we'll give you money, you'll use what Serbia pays as a working obligation and we'll continue a conflict that can't end in our favor. Two-thirds of Serbs in Kosovo live according to Ahtisaari's plan. When you talk to them, they are dissatisfied that the Ahtisaari plan is not fully realized. Do you know why Ahtisaari's plan isn't being realized? Because we didn't accept Ahtisaari's plan. All right, four, five years ago, when we told you that this was a good basis for further negotiations, you disobeyed us. When I say you, I don't mean just DS, then the DSS, the SRS and this Progressive Party were for that policy. But now you're saying that it's not really a bad Ahtisaari plan, it just needs to be improved...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62297	People's MP, I must remind you that it is our mutual obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure. If he can help you, and you have not been informed, MPs Ivan Andric and Aleksandar Martinovic have asked that, in consultation with the speaker of the Assembly, the Assembly, within the Rules of Procedure, discuss the subject you are talking about. I have informed the MP that the message has been transmitted, that there will be a meeting of representatives of the parliamentary clubs and, if no one submits a request for a session with the current topic, that I will do so, so that the space will be asked and answered, so I would ask you about the topic of the agenda. The procedure is the basic backbone of democracy. If everyone respects the procedure, I think there'd be a lot less trouble where they're made, because we're making a personal point of view about when we can respect the procedure and when we don't. I'm not just thinking about you, but if it helps you, in accordance with article 27, I'll keep you posted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62298	I agree that the procedure is the essence of democracy, Mrs. Comic, but you must admit that this procedure must serve some purpose. Discussing the law on weapons that we don't have, as much as it is an international obligation, I respect it, in this situation, not at all to discuss this law, it's not against this law, it's not a dispute, but in this situation when something really happens in the long run, it takes all the citizens of this country, it takes another three, four years, as if we've lost a few years, in that sense, to use the procedure to avoid the story of the essence, no matter what the president is told, he'll decide, but I know how it works. The colleagues of the SRS sent you several initiatives, you chose one, not the first, but the last, to discuss the minister for the diaspora. (President: National MP, the National Assembly can only put on the agenda an answer to the impelation sent by the Government. The government did not send a response to other interpretations, only to the interpretation of Minister Srdjana Sredkovic. I ask you to respect the procedure in that part where the Assembly, I think, is provingly, forms a practice of control over the government, because there is no way that the Assembly is ordering the Government to order a series of responses to the interpretations, so that's why, the truth works. ) Believe me, I didn't mean the Assembly when I mentioned Srdjan Sredkovic, right on the government, to settle some internal misunderstandings in the government by the government giving an opinion on this impelation and then we will discuss Srdjan Sredkovic. All right, that's proof that it's nearing the end of that government, that has nothing to do with the Assembly, we have to respect that. I'm just saying that the procedure is used to avoid talking about something that interests citizens. Who cares about the people who are watching us right now? Who's not interested in what's going on in the north of KIM? We worked many times at 10.00 p.m. and without direct transmission. Isn't this the right time to pass this chemical weapon law, a law on Serbia's maritimeity that doesn't have seas, but it doesn't matter? But anyway, I'm just realizing that what we said at the beginning of today's session and today's work was pointless and I mean the damage of the ruling majority. So I don't understand why the decision he insisted on by the head of the LDP parliamentary group has not been made or you, I will now spend my time, you will say – okay, let's go to the next point of the agenda, we have no morals, but we will pass a law on maritimeism, because it is from Questionnaires and that is our obligation in Euro-Atlantic integration? I understand all that. But will we come to a bid with this policy towards Kosovo, that is, the inability to face reality, to change politics, to tell these people -- you can't if we pay you, we, and the taxpayers of Serbia, to do damage to all citizens, not only to those who live now, but to those who will just come, because you'll spend two or three more years on us. These days, we don't know who the president of the state is anymore, the popes, the academics, are calling for a bloodbath like we're people in 1990, 1991. Well, it's not normal for every time Serbia takes a step towards integration into the European people's family to make some kind of jumbus as it is now being made. Seven, eight years ago, the prime minister was killed, so we wouldn't get here, now it's happening. It's as if someone is in the interest of blood falling there so that absolutely Europe will shut down the Serbian site and say - you are no longer worth talking to. I believe there are many in Serbia, but I cannot believe that the leadership of this country, the president of the state, the government does nothing to account for, to prevent, to cancel and, with effort, which may not be small, make that last step to win the bid. Yesterday, the president of the Republic had a briefing with the editors-in-chief and said it was a chance to win the 50-50 bid. Well, with a policy like this, it's probably smaller. We're asking you -- why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? That's the essence of everything we've tried to say today and get you to talk about something that's really more important than the law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62299	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law, and I am notifying on the basis of Articles 27 of Article 90 and Article 87 of the People's Parliament on the following. A break that will be set will take a little longer than the usual one hour, as determined by Article 87, and we will continue the afternoon work at 1400 hours and by doing a second joint search of the law on maritime navigation and the proposal for a law on bonds and fundamentals of property and legal relations in maritime traffic and a third joint review on the draft law on the maintenance of residential buildings, the draft legislation and the proposal for a law on mining and geological research, which means that today we will be doing 18.00 hours. If all the Rules of Procedure are obtained at 14.00 hours, the conditions laid down for the meeting of the National Assembly to run, i.e. we shall have a representative of the Government and all on the basis of the members who prescribe the submission of the report of the committees responsible for the agenda points to be discussed in the framework of a common principle search 2) and 3). I thank Minister Snezani Malovic and the representatives of the ministry of co-operation and I invite you to continue our work at 14.00 hours, with a note that no matter how difficult and seemingly unsettled the situation, respect for the rules, mutual respect and awareness that there are far more important things than what may be replaced, two words, in the National Assembly Hall will help us all to solve all problems to the common satisfaction and MP Zoran Stojić thanks for his patience during his exposure with the answer if it has been addressed to me that Serbia will do all the jobs on its own modernisation and will be a candidate for the EU member and all that we need to do together. Thank you. I'll see you at 2:00. [[After a break.]] We continue the work of the session in the afternoon part of the joint principled search on the proposal of the Law on Auxiliary Navigation and the Proposal for Law on Obligations and Fundamentals of Their Interventions in the Air Traffic, i.e. the 5th and 6th Points of the Agenda. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, were present also Miodrag Miljkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy and Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Energy. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the 5th and 6th points of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have a total debate time of five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of individual parliamentary groups, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Ambassador group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit their application for the word and with the order of the Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Applications for word shall be received until the opening of the search, joint principle or single search on the agenda point. In view of the fact that only one parliamentary group has handed over the order of MPs or not to the Secretary of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP; MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS - JS; and MP Janko Veseinovic, MP of the ZES. Given that it is now in turn to open a joint principled search, I would ask the parliamentary groups to hand over the order of MPs who wish to speak, to apply for a word, and to Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the proposal for a Law on Maritime Navigation and the Proposal for a Law on Obligation and Fundamentals of Property - Legal Relations in Air Traffic. Does promoter Oliver Dulic, environment minister, mining and spatial planning want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic, please ask the secretary to give the card. There's a word for Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62301	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the honourable citizens of Serbia, these two points of the agenda, i.e. these two very important laws are in the portfolio of Minister of Infrastructure and Energy Milutin Mrkonjic, as he was for objective reasons prevented with his apology, I will have the honour to defend these laws before you today. The obligations and fundamentals of property legal relations in air traffic in the Republic of Serbia have been governed by the laws of 1998 from which the adoption in the European market of air services has seen significant changes in some of the institutions governed by the law. By harmonising our right with European regulations, primarily through an agreement on a common European aviation area, so-called The ECAA Agreement also harmonises common rules on the protection of the rights of passengers and their luggage, the protection of users, and in particular the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and reduced mobility. This also requires increased responsibility, both for air carriers and transport organisers and other transport participants for the full application of European achievements. The ECAA states, among other things, that in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, the European Regulation relating to, the rights of passengers in the absence of boarding, cancellation of flights and delayed flights, the responsibility of air carriers in the air crossing towards passengers and their luggage, the rights of persons with disabilities of persons with reduced mobility in air transport, the takeover of individual solutions from the Montreal Convention in order to equate the air carrier's responsibility system in international and domestic air transport of the Republic of Serbia, which will result in not only a uniform system of air carrier liability in international and domestic air traffic, but also the strengthening of passenger protection measures and the regulation of fair, transparent and appropriate sanctions for breach of these provisions. The proposal for this law is another step in bringing our right closer to EU legislation and implementing relevant European regulations containing appropriate material solutions to ensure full application of European standards on passenger protection. Other provisions of the law on bonding relations and the basics of property legal relations in air traffic will be updated and adapted to the applicable general rules governing bonding relations. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before you is the second item of the agenda, that is the proposal for a law on maritime navigation. The reasons for the adoption of maritime navigation laws are seen primarily in raising the level of protection of the rights of Serbian citizens working in the capacity of seamen to join and register vessels, the creation of a legislative framework that will bring foreign shipowners to enter parts of their fleet into one of the Serb registers of maritime ships, as well as the introduction of appropriate sources of EU law into domestic legislation, thus achieving full compliance with the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia with EU law in the field of maritime traffic. In this regard, the law implements 24 EU directives and regulations in domestic legislation, as well as provisions of the most significant international conventions adopted under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation and the International Labour Organisation. The draft law regulates the conditions and means for safe navigation at sea, seaboats winding the flag of the Republic of Serbia of other vessels, as their capacity to sail in accordance with the requirements of the SOLAS Convention. The designation of the ship's navigation capability shall be entrusted to the recognised organisation, i.e. the Internationally Classified Society, which will supply the statutory certification of maritime ships, thereby bringing the harmonisation of the European Directive 2009/15 and Regulation 2009391 into line. In the part of the bill governing the crew, special attention is given to the conditions of employment, the right to appropriate working conditions on board, health care, medical care, social assistance measures and other forms of social protection. The matter of intervening in the employment of seafarers on domestic ships and ships of foreign state belongings carried out by the National Employment Service of the Republic of Serbia, with the possibility that the intervention may also be carried out by another legal person if it meets the prescribed conditions to be laid down under the legal act in accordance with the requirements of the International Convention on the Labour of Seamen and the EU Directive. In the part of the draft law governing the protection of seas against pollution from ship-based norms were: the International Convention on the Prevention of Sea pollution from ships, MARPOL 7378 with approaches, the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and Casuals and the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Systems used against Breeding on Ships. Finally, the bill also regulates the matter of safety protection of maritime ships and shipyards where ships are built from illegal activities that threaten their safety. This part of the bill introduces the domestic legislation of the basic provision contained in Chapter 9 - Two SOLAS Conventions and ACPS Regulations. In view of the fact that most of the nine shipyards in the Republic of Serbia are building hulls of seaships, this chapter of the bill is even more important. I hope that the upcoming debate on this bill will be constructive and will contribute to the possible improvement of the text of the bill. I thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62302	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Siniša Stamenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellow gentlemen, by passing the Law on navigation and ports on Serbia's internal waters, our country has arranged conditions and a way of safe sailing on internal waters. Waterways and navigation, vessel status and their capacity to sail, crew, search and rescue, ports and ports, surveillance and any other issues relating to inland navigation are legally regulated in this technical law. It is normal that, in the follow-up process of regulating this part, the state undertakes to regulate and ensure regimes and security in all modes of traffic and definitely to regulate maritime navigation, given the great and complex needs of the Republic of Serbia in ensuring imports and exports of many goods on international waterways. We would like to remind ourselves that the European Commission's strict report on Serbia's economy concluded that the country's macroeconomic situation is stabilised, budget costs are under control, that appropriate solutions have been harmonised with the IMF, that they have been adopted and strict fiscal rules are respected, that the banking sector is relatively healthy with all the risks of Eurodependence, and that progress in the rule of law is now even more necessary, above all in the urgent adoption of so-called. technical laws in areas such as traffic and connections, in particular telecommunications, as well as laws governing all issues of standardisation of transport, people, goods and services. The task of our parliament is to create effective, responsible and fully harmonised technical regulations by which Serbia will very soon have to create an ambience of a grateful business environment. In those circumstances, the PUPS Group has seen and supports the need for legal vacuum, technical vacuum and economic vacuum, to be created by unbundling the state community, quickly and effectively compensated by this law, which has a large number of specialities in the standardisation of maritime navigation matter. We are aware that all legal techniques for adopting codes in the area of both navigation rights, both internal and maritime, must be replaced by nomotechnics that involve the separation of both navigations. The separation of sailing matter to an equal and private part may be incomprehensible for many, but with absolute compliance with all UN and EU shipping directives, it will eliminate any misunderstandings and possible objections. Serbia's status as a land block of a country that has lost its seashore, but with the reserved right of a Member State of the International Maritime Organisation, through accepted conventions provides us with all the necessary specialities in standardising maritime navigation matter and the inalienable right to own a commercial, transit and tourist fleet in international water and transport. We must all be aware that this law regulates the conditions and way of safe sailing on the sea of all maritime ships that screw the flag of the Republic of Serbia, as well as that the regulations must be fully in line with international legislation and that we cannot add much or subtract there. The capacity to sail, crew, vessels, protect the sea from pollution from ships, surveillance and any other issues relating to the safety of sea navigation are fully in line with international law standards. The draft law regulates the rights to transport, regulates the legal status of vessels flying the flag of Serbia, the procedural issues of their entry into the registers of vessels of all types of ships, yachts, boats, tankers and all other sea vessels. The law will normally regulate the matter of constitutional and legal or bonds-law relations, publishing rights, enforcement and security of the liability of shipowners and drivers, as well as the conditions for obtaining approval for the performance of the driver's duties, the issue of fleet capacity and all international conditions in the field of shipping law. We must all be aware that the introduction of secondary sources of municipal law in domestic legislation will be difficult to achieve full compatibility of the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia with EU and UN rights. However, as complex a task as this is, this bill in our legislation must introduce 26 UN directives and UN regulations, the EU, which are contained in three legislative packages, Erik 1, Erik 2, Erik 3, adopted by the European Parliament, as well as the SOLAS International Convention, MARPOL. The draft law regulates the mediation in the employment of seamen on domestic ships, but also on ships by foreign states, belongings to the national employment service. I fully support the obligation to introduce PIO sailors, as well as the obligation of health insurance to seamen who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to seamen who are members of the crew of a foreign state. The draft law also regulates matters of living and working conditions on ships in maritime transport, as well as jurisdiction for the conduct of national authorities in the application of Directive 1999/95. EZ. The draft law lays down the required knowledge, as well as the powers to carry out all operations on vessels. The Ministry will prescribe calls, conditions and how to acquire the calling and authority of crew members, ships, merchant Navys, fishing vessels and other types of vessels. It is good that the law regulates the legal status of the master of the vessel, its authority, rights and duties laid down in the legal position of the master of the ship, which are divided into duties in relation to the safety of the vessel itself and the duties of the ship's representative on board, as well as the duties of the representative of the State whose flag the ship is flying. We believe that it is good that this law introduces a system for information and control of shipping, a system of mandatory navigation routes, as well as systems for the identification and monitoring of ships at a high distance, a liter, a system for recording data on navigation, as well as an EU system for the exchange of data on maritime navigation of FESN. The PUPS Group considers that it is not necessary to establish new authorities to work on maritime navigation operations unless it explicitly requires provisions of various EU directives. We support the shipowner or shipowner's obligation to be responsible for any damage caused by a breach of duty. This responsibility stems from the proper selection of commanders, but also from the crew designated by the shipowner himself and for this state should not bear any responsibility. It is evident that an amendment has been submitted to the Maritime Navigation Bill which will contribute to a more quality law and make it possible to apply it easier and we ask the Proposer to accept a number of amendments which are indisputable and therefore there are technical inconsistencies that must certainly be corrected, i.e. to be entered into the Draft Act. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law after considering the laws in particular and adopting amendments in the voting day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this set of united debate, we are considering another draft law of technical nature, which is the law on the bonds of property and legal relations in air traffic. We recall that a recent air traffic law has been adopted, as well as a number of other laws that oblige us to adopt this law on bonding relations that occur in air traffic arising from the contract on the transport of passengers and luggage, on the transport of things, on the pursuit of other commercial activities, on the lease of aircraft, on the liability for potential damages to aircraft in flight, on third parties, on insurance and resecuritisation, as well as in the procedures for the execution and security of aircraft, in the applicable law, and finally and the jurisdiction of courts for disputes with international markings. The PUPS Group believes that the adoption of this law will finally complete a significant job in concluding a multilateral agreement on the enlargement of the common European aviation area, and thus markets. In the context of the common European aviation market, common rules and protection of passenger rights, protection of users, protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and special needs as well as protection of transport organisers and all other participants in transport must also rule. Serbia cannot be an exception in this regard. Under the "ECAA" agreement, we are obliged to comply with our right to European regulations and not only that, we are obliged to provide conditions for the application of single world standards in the field of security, air navigation security and in all categories of technical and professional conditions, civil aviation. This law controls the opening of the domestic market of air services for EU carriers and for the creation of favourable market opportunities for domestic air carriers within the aviation area, making us part of the overall air traffic and we can use all the benefits provided by the "ECAA" programme. The Law on bonds and fundamentals of property and legal relations in air traffic definitely regulates the obligations in air traffic relating to air transport contracts for passengers, baggage and things, to air lease contracts, to insurance contracts, as well as to the jurisdiction of authorities, carriers, courts and international organisations. This law lays down general air transport conditions and provides for a way to carry out operations in the technical realisation of air transport. The PUPS parliamentary group estimates that a truly huge job has been done in the drafting of this law, a responsible and professional job recognised by the international agency. It certainly commends the very high degree of compliance of the rules with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and the Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other. We are pleased that the normative content of the rules has been assessed as a complete fulfillment of the obligations arising from the agreement and the national programmes for Serbia's integration into the EU normative. We propose that the legislator accept a number of amendments which are in fact only a correction to improve the draft law, rather than a fundamental change in the normative, professional or technical provisions of this law. In voting day, we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62304	It was used 11 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62305	Honorable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. So we have two legislative proposals, a proposal for a maritime navigation law and a proposal for a law on bonds and fundamentals of property and legal relations in air traffic. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support both legislative proposals in the voting day. When it comes to the proposal for a law on maritime navigation, this is one of the laws that is necessary to comply with EU rules, with secondary sources of municipal law, in the law is, I think, the 26 precise directives and EU regulations set out in three packages, and that is what my colleague before me was talking about. The law includes all relevant international conventions concerning this particular issue that we are discussing today. What should be pointed out is that this was a matter that was previously decorated at the level of the federal state in which we lived, last time at the level of the SRJ. As already passed the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters in 2010, an unregulated area of maritime navigation remained. It is true, Serbia has no sea today. The collapse of the state of the union of Serbia-Montenegro left Serbia an independent state, has become a continental country. However, she remained a member of the International Maritime Organisation, which results in obligations to bring legislation into line when it comes to this area. Serbia has maritime vessels that sail across the sea and international waters under the flag of our country and must therefore have a regulation governing the conditions and way of safe sailing. This law lays down conditions and procedures, first for safe navigation, which are technical rules and measures that must be met by vessels, then, the jurisdiction of the national authorities, that is the Ministry of Traffic, and as regards the application of the quality system, in accordance with exactly international standards, then, the procedure to be respected when the ship comes to the port of the coastal country in which it agrees. In this regard, it is important that the draft law incorporates international conventions on the protection of human life at sea, as well as the International Regulation on the safe operation of ships and the prevention of pollution, which is also of paramount importance. Because other than the safety of passengers on board, it is very important to prevent pollution that can cause ships. Unfortunately, we are witnessing frequent high seas excesses, such as oil spills and the creation of large oil stains. This kind of eco-excess produces severe consequences for the future of the living world in the sea, and therefore for the human being. It is also very important that the Law regulates the establishment of an independent body that will be responsible for conducting a security investigation into maritime accidents. Although we are a continental country, it is very important that we regulate this area in accordance with international standards and thus accept all the international standards and obligations that come from these standards. I have already said, after the collapse of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Serbia has lost seashore, but we have 5,000 sailors. When it comes to such a law, we are not the only state, namely, such laws have countries without the seashore, such as Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, it seems to me that Austria has such a legal proposal. The proposal for a law on the obligations of property legal relations in air traffic, I would say very briefly, extends the actual responsibility of the airline. It is a law that is in line with EU rules and is already mentioned in the introduction of Mr. Minister, a law that will replace the current law that was passed in 1998. The existing compensation institutes are being replaced, assistance to passengers in air traffic, a system of liability of car carriers that is now extremely extended, and this is of exceptional importance. Once again at the very end, the SPS-JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62306	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62307	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs who are here, I see that the opposition in this afternoon's work remains the only card left, it seems to me to be a replacement from Mr. Todorovic, so the technical services could return it tomorrow if it returned to the Assembly. I would tell the opposition, however, as far as the chairman is concerned, the issues themselves, so that I will not turn away from the topic, that they are not only important laws which are politically very interesting and which can be politically exploited, but also laws that fill legal gaps in our legal system or regulate areas of which the lives of ordinary citizens depend, ultimately and people who voted for them, certainly, to participate in the debate and to try to make elections for better laws. Today we are specifically discussing ordinary citizens, sailors who sometimes have very difficult working conditions, which sail on the far seas, very often without provided basic legal conditions to protect their rights. These are sailors sailing under the flag of the Republic of Serbia, according to the ship's sailor law on which the flag of the Republic of Serbia stands. Today we've been listening to messages from the SRS, but also from the LDP, as we discuss these laws, we're wasting our time, and we're actually just doing the work that we're here for, that comes from the Constitution and the law that regulates this area, which is that we're passing laws and we're dealing with legislative activity. Have we paid attention to Kosovo and Metohija? I believe that, since our time of adoption of the Constitution, the adoption of laws, the adoption of laws on government and ministries, there has been a special ministry for Kosovo and Metohija, but also a number of other sessions of the Assembly that discussed the problems that have arisen in recent years in our southern province. That's where the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic came when all the responsible ministers were to come. We also sat on committees when needed, and what should the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia stop? Well, that's certainly the goal of only one who doesn't want the good of the Republic of Serbia. Just for a little while more on the opposition's non-participation in today's debate. The very interesting messages we receive from the two, we would say, are the opposing parties when it comes to Kosovo and the LDP and the SRS Metohija. While the LDP resents us getting too involved in what should be the problem of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, in the meantime the Serbian Radical Party resents us for not getting involved at all and not counting. I'm sure they can't be right about each other, in fact, they're both wrong about each other... (President: National MP, I must interfere with the reminder that we are talking about the agenda. )......................................................................................................... Yeah, I've been paying attention that I'm going to try to make an introduction, so it's only half a sentence. So we're dealing with the work that the Constitution and the law have put on us, which is that we make laws. Today, two very important laws are on the agenda, as the minister stressed, although they may not be for some political exploitation, especially for those who do not read them. However, these two laws form part of a broader continent that is within the area of public and private law. Public law, the part relating to, say, the Law on Maritime Navigation and the private law of the Law on Bondation and Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic. It's part of a broader whole, because in every branch of traffic we have, or we had two laws -- one that edited this public-law side and the other that edited this bond-law side of those areas. They are fortunately separated, perhaps in some future period there will be the possibility that all the laws in the area of bonding and legal spheres are codified along with the Law on Liabilities, because I would say that in some way we have already entered the sphere to round the law in the area of bonding and legal relations, especially since I believe that the Law on Liabilities of 1978 falls within the order of our most stable laws and that it may be time to codify that area, but certainly this other public-law part of the area of traffic, may once experience its codification, which would certainly create greater security and simpler compliance in that very broad area. I have one question for the legislator of this law, because we are essentially now in a position to have three laws regarding maritime and internal navigation. So, the old Law on Maritime and Inland Navigation, the new Law on Inland Navigation and the new Law on Maritime Navigation. It remained part of the provisions of the Law on Maritime and Inland Navigation to continue, and not a small number of provisions, it was probably more technically simple to do so, but it is certain that it may create a small confusion among those who need to apply these laws, because they will need to read compared to two laws, although they are, in fact, isolated clear continents that remain valid. What's important is that when we talk about this shipping law, it simply refers to ships, other vessels, boats and, above all, to crews of these ships, but I would also say to passengers who sail on those ships, boats and so on yachts or boats. The ministry has been given the role to determine, through a system of quality management, which is certified in accordance with international quality management standards, the fulfilment of the conditions for ships, vessels, or boats. The ministry has also been authorised to investigate maritime accidents through the inspectorate. It will play a new role for all ships flying under the flag of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that part I consider to be about ordinary citizens, sailors, citizens who have citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, living, or related to the Republic of Serbia, this law on maritime navigation, above all, determines the ship's ability to sail. Therefore, it is determined whether any ship can sail, whether it is capable, whether it guarantees the safety of passengers, property on board, ship itself, other vessels etc. This law gives clear criteria what a ship needs to meet so that it can sail, or sail. Technical surveillance is being carried out, detail is being made that every ship must have such standards to ensure the safe life of the people on board, property, even gives a specification of the medical assistance that must exist on board. Otherwise, technical control and control of ships are also regulated, along with regular, there are extraordinary checks, which means that at any time, when the ship is available, it can be examined. The law has made it clear that only the number of passengers registered for, therefore, should there be no ship-to-ship congestion, nor when it comes to passenger traffic, nor when it comes to freight traffic, when it comes to burdens. This law regulates the safety of boats and yachts. It's not meaningless, probably, and in some future period it won't be meaningless, because people go to sea, ride their boats with them. There are those who have yachts. On these yachts are crews, often citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There must also be a guarantee, on which ships these people sail and what security, equal and any other security are there. The conditions of technical surveillance, boating, yachts, etc. are prescribed. What is particularly important is that the detailed issue of the crew is the ship's issue, even detailing what needs to be contained in the labor contract. I will quote only one provision that says that the labour contract should contain benefits provided by the employer for the mariners in terms of social and health protection. So, this is one of the few labour contracts where the employer's obligation to provide benefits in terms of health and social protection for workers is foreseen. In addition, this law provides for the crew’s working hours, or seamen’s working hours, which means that it cannot be longer than 14 hours a day for more than 72 hours in a seven - day period. A minimum rest time has been foreseen, and particularly young sailors are protected. They can't work at night. Here, when you say it at night, it means 00.00 to 05.00 hours. To this end, the legislator was careful and he took care of the protection of the seamen. It is also required that the chamber be entitled to a paid leave for two and a half days for one month, which means a minimum of 30 days during one calendar year. It says in detail that the vacation can be given when the seaman arrives at the port, boarding, or when he can use his vacation, so as not to accidentally spend it on board. This law also provides for provisions on seafarers' earnings. It goes into these details, that the provisions on seafarers' earnings are also envisaged, where they are said to be paid monthly, so that people who sail on ships do not get their profits until they arrive at the port of loading or the port of landing, and that it takes several months, that they are practically tied to the employer, that they do not have an allowance. Payouts are provided monthly. Minimum earnings are also foreseen and this is in line with international labour standards for this area, but it is said, however, that it cannot be below minimum earnings according to our legislation. A minimum number of sailors, which may be part of a single ship's crew, have been predicted, so as not to serve a small number of people, to say, large ships and to endanger their health. This law also regulated the issue of the Navy training centre. He also provided for provisions on marine repatriation. What does that mean? This means that the seamen who are taken off at some port that is not the port of origin of the ship, the shipowner has an obligation to arrange transport to the country from which they originate, or to Serbia, so that they are not left outside Serbia's borders. There is a provision here that is interesting to Minister Dulic. In my opinion, if he had written this law, she probably wouldn't have stood. It's probably part of some international standards, but it bothered me. When it comes to pollution of the seas from ship pollution, it is said, say, that from ships, I assure myself of the provision, it cannot cast out plastics, wood and anything that floats by sea, if the ship is more than 25 nautical miles from land, and food and other waste, if it is far from 12 nautical miles away. In my opinion, it's a provision that goes against the environment, which means that if you're more than 25 nautical miles from the ship, you can throw anything into the sea. It seems to me it's probably related to some convention. I haven't read it, but maybe we could set some higher standards since we've been up to these standards for a long time when it comes to ecology. Just a few words, since I have a few minutes left, about the Law on Liaison and Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic. This is the law of bond relations. He regulates contractual relations in the area of air traffic. It is in some way based on the basic law of the Law on Liabilities, when it comes to the contract on the transport of goods and passengers, but there are also a number of provisions which are specific to the contract on the transport of passengers and luggage in air traffic. The law has a large number of provisions that are dispositive. It creates the possibility for the parties to do their own relations, and only if the parties do not agree otherwise will the provisions of these laws be applied, which is certainly a feature of bond relations and our legal system. However, this is also about the rights and obligations of ordinary people. Here they are resolved and legally regulated issues, such as – the right to cancel flight, the right of passengers to cancel flight, the right to delay flight, the right to compensation, the right to care and accommodation of passengers if the flight is cancelled and so on. In particular, a provision on the rights of persons with reduced mobility or special needs, compulsory insurance, etc. is developed. In addition to this basic contract on the transport of passengers, this law also regulates the provision of other commercial services in air traffic, the lease of aircraft, the air traffic insurance contract and one specific part of this law, which it says is property-legal relations in air traffic. With all this in mind and given the importance of these two laws, I have not even mentioned the EU in a single word. This is in some way also a harmonisation with EU laws, however, in this case, not to be any phrase, as regards the people concerned by the provisions of this law, which have been very often in a very awkward position regarding their rights and the exercise of their rights from working legal and other relations. Of course, because of this, DS will support this law and all the laws that are designed in this way and that protect the rights of workers and that regulate relations that are not properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62308	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to use their right to speak at this session? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, has not been submitted by any parliamentary group, so there are no conditions for having that session. Since there are no reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if anyone who has not used his right under Article 96 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does the Minister want the word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62309	Thank you very much. I thank you for the questions you asked. Of course, I repeat again, this is still an area of expertise with which the Ministry of Infrastructure is much more involved. All the questions raised are related to technical standards, they are essentially harmonising our legislation with all these international agreements and the EU. Basically, they define the parameters that have long been discussed. I am sure that they all contribute to that standard of care for environmental protection, human health, and when it comes to the preservation of marine biology, such as in countries that are on a much higher standard of development, and certainly much higher standards of that protection. Anyway, I'm going to transfer your question to the minister. I believe that in the debate in principle, eventually, some of these things will be able to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62310	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a Law on Maritime Navigation and the Proposal for a Law on Liabilities and Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic. On the basis of Article 27, which obliges the chair to take care of both the session and the consistency of the working bodies, and on the basis of the information I have from both the president of the parliamentary groups and the MPs, I shall set a break of up to 15.30 minutes, for a period of sufficient time and for the laws which are part of the next joint review of points 7 and 8, to be submitted to the amendment, and for the requirements and for both the representatives of the parliamentary groups and the MPs who wish to submit the amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, amendments may be submitted until the opening of a joint principled search or search on the draft law which is on the agenda. So, the work of the afternoon session continues at 3:30. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon part of the session with a joint principled review on: Proposal for a law supplementing the laws on the maintenance of residential buildings, a proposal for a law on municipal activities and a proposal for a law on mining and geological research. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the joint principled search of the 7, 8th and 9th agenda, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, called for today's session, in addition to the proposing representative, Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, to attend Zlatko Dragosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Zoran Ibrović, Head of Legal Service at the Ministry of the Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and Milija Calović, Head of the Department of Normal Affairs, Building Land and Legalisation of Objects in the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search of the 7, 8 and 9th agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the constituency groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, and this is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; a parliamentary group of SRS - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; a United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group of Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; a parliamentary group of DSS - 24 minutes; a parliamentary group of SPS - 18 minutes; a parliamentary group of LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; a parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit their application for the word and with the order of the Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 96(4). Applications for a word submitted by the President or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups shall be accepted until the opening of the search, or a joint principle or joint single search of the agenda item. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Siniša Stamenković – PUPS, MP Elvira Kovac – Parliament group Manjina, MP Milisav Petronijevic – MP group SPS – JS and National MP Radoslav Milovanovic – Parliament group ZES. If any of the other parliamentary groups would like to inform the National Assembly that they have chosen who to present them during the debate of these three laws in a joint principled search, please provide us with this information so that we can inform the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a law supplementing the laws on the maintenance of residential buildings, a proposal for a law on municipal activities and a proposal for a law on mining and geological research. Does the promoter's representative, Oliver Dulic, the environment minister, mining and spatial planning, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are before us today three extremely important laws, which will essentially change and advance the areas they define and will open up one huge, and so far the untapped potential of investment in the area of our society, which so far are for the reasons of the lack of law, but also for the very big problems that have accumulated for decades, which have burdened precisely these areas. Today we have three important laws ahead of us. First of all, it's the Mining and Geological Research Act, it's the Law on municipal activities and the addition of the House Building Maintenance Act. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the enormous work of the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, together with a large number of experts and experts coming from local self-government, our universities, professional organisations, NGOs, in public debates, has been confirmed, above all, the circumstances of the adoption of these laws, in order to complete one cycle of reforms that this ministry started in 2008 and which meant that all those areas that were unreformed, which were in the hands of this ministry, must be reformed in a way that the laws they adopt are effective, provide new investments in job creation, harmonisation of legislation with EU legal assets and, of course, to be proud and honor all those who use these laws and which bring them good. I want to say that we are very proud that these are the last areas that when we reform this law we can say that they are in full compliance with the legislation of developed countries. As a ministry, we have proposed over 40 legislative proposals to this assembly and each area, which was the area for which the ministry took responsibility, has been fundamentally changed, and today it can be seen at a pace and according to the results it has significantly improved. We're very proud of that. As for the first law, the law supplementing the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings, it should be said that this is how we meet the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which has been decided by an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the provisions of the previous law, which has established that the provision of one of the members is unconstitutional. Starting from the abovementioned decision of the Constitutional Court, which takes into account the legal fact of the Constitutional Court’s decisions, which form part of the law under the Constitutional Court, it is concluded that it is necessary to access the proposed amendments. Also, one of the consequences of the decision taken is that since 20 April of this year, as the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Court decision, there is no possibility of obtaining and resolving property legal relations in procedures relating to the recovery of the legal roof, the conversion of the common room into the apartment, i.e. the annexation of joint rooms to the neighbouring apartment, since the provisions which concern the way in which the decision is taken on the availability and management of the residential building by the City Assembly are deleted. In view of the fact that the right of common indivisible property as a specific right of the owner of specific parts of the building, which are mutually conditioned, and that the right of common indivisible property has certain restrictions which do not have other property rights, and the facts are conditional property, which requires the owner to maintain his property in such a way as to provide the other owner with a peaceful use of his property, such regulation will achieve one of the basic objectives of the law, which is to maintain a residential building at a satisfactory level of usability and protection of public interest. Such regulation also increases the legal certainty of participants in the procedure and decision-making, i.e. legal certainty in the administrative procedure for issuing a local and construction permit. Such regulation as regards the way decisions are taken in certain situations is also in line with the European Court of Human Rights' view, which is that property law can be taken away or restricted on condition that it is provided for by law, that this is in the general interest and that the confiscation is a reasonable and proportionate purpose which is intended to be achieved. In addition, the draft law creates the normative assumptions for the provision of the necessary funds for the investment maintenance of the residential building, as well as for the protection of common parts of the residential building. In one word, by amending and supplementing this law, we are solving a huge problem created by the Constitutional Court's ruling, which should certainly be respected, and we are solving the issue in which the owners of the joint housing will solve their property legal relations. We come to another extremely important law, the Law on Community Works. At the very beginning, I want to repeat one claim, which is the attitude of all those who work and participate in this area and know these areas, which is that the area of municipal activity is a great opportunity for the development of our country. In Serbia, 357 companies run municipal activities, while 126 companies established cities and municipalities to carry out housing in the construction land. This other group of public enterprises does not carry out municipal activities within the meaning of this law, but statistically, both of them are the same category. They share essentially similar problems and reform procedures that should be taken into both categories are the same or similar. In these activities, around 3.7% of the total number of employees in the economy of the Republic of Serbia or around 53% are employed. Thousands of people. Public enterprises operate capital in state property and their founders are cities and municipalities. The activities carried out by utility companies in practice are very diverse. Often, a number of different activities are carried out by individual utility companies, some of which are listed as a major activity. This heterogeneity has its justification in an organisational and functional sense, especially in smaller environments, but from the aspect of data comparison and insight into the situation of isolated activity, it certainly causes methodological problems. For example, how many workers carry out each of the activities, which are costs, which are linked to the performance of each activity, as determined by the price of municipal services in mixed enterprises, how accounting is conducted based on costs, etc. Many public utility companies also carry out activities that do not have a communal function: a bureau project, research centres, vehicle maintenance services, and even bread production, the exploitation of stone, the processing of wood construction or, for example, classical financial services, such as the Public Communal Company "Infostane" from Belgrade. In terms of how to organise certain municipal affairs are mutually different. Some of them require a simple organization, while others are both technologically and organisationally far more complex. The Community Labour Act, adopted in 1997, was amended in 1998. In the last 12 years, laws have been adopted or significantly amended, which regulate issues of fundamental impact on the performance of municipal activity, such as the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, the Law on concessions, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Waters and the Law on Waste Management. For this reason, there is an urgent need to regulate this area in accordance with the principles set out and contained in that set of laws. The above-mentioned non-compliances of the Community Labour Act with sectoral laws do not provide the basis for effective and quality implementation of municipal activities. Moreover, the practice so far has long imposed certain amendments and additions to the legal provisions in this area and indicated in which direction and scope they should be implemented. First of all, the current legal framework does not provide for the security and predictability of business to the private sector, as well as the necessary protection of public interest in the process of trusting municipal activities, in order to enable the necessary investment in the municipal infrastructure, on the one hand, but certainly also the protection of what is a public interest. It is therefore necessary to amend the law, to introduce clearer and more transparent procedures for the confidence of the activities carried out, to enable a gradual improvement in the quality of governance and business in the municipal sector, to bring the price of municipal services into line with economic principles. The area of municipal activity in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is governed by a large number of regulations. In addition to the applicable Law on Community Works, which we are changing today, and sublegal acts, this area is regulated by the rules on public enterprises and the exercise of general interest, on funds in the property of the Republic of Serbia, on local self-government, the capital, energy, waste management, water, roads, burial and cemeteries, trade, concessions, public procurement, one set of laws that have been previously passed and which, in their own way, are involved in the functionality of the Law on municipal enterprises. Many of the above-mentioned rules have been passed after the applicable law and in everything that has been created as one legal continent, it is necessary for this area to be better regulated by law. It is obvious that, above all, the provision on the confidence of municipal activities and the Law on municipal activities, and then inadequate provisions on how to form public service prices, does not provide the basis for effective and quality performance of municipal activities. At the same time, the current legal framework does not provide the security and predictability of business to private investors. This is what is fundamentally the main reason for the whole process, primarily by entrusting business or association of public and private funds, to be defined in a good way. What we are looking forward to, too, is that at this point in the assembly procedure and the law on public-private partnerships, which together with the law on municipal activities, will allow investment in municipal infrastructure, in particular private investment, to become a reality. The draft programme on municipal activities is based on the following basic principles: 1. efficiency, quality and rationality of the provision of municipal services; competition of public service contractors, which implies the obligation of units of local self-government to promote and maintain competition for access to municipal activities and in the performance of municipal activities; support for improving efficiency, the number of employees, the number of employees, the price, as well as the degree of investment in the maintenance and construction of municipal infrastructure; protection of public interest, transparency and the public in the process of public service confidence; protection of the rights of utility and services users, quality, quality and availability of investment in the maintenance and construction of municipal infrastructure; protection of public interest, transparency and public pay; protection of the rights of utility and services users; quality, quality and the availability of public service services; and the availability of the cost of services; the cost of housing and cost of services; Finally, security and protection of the right to a municipal product and service to those categories of population who are unable to financially monitor price harmonisation in the municipal sector with economic parameters. The objectives that this law achieves are: creating conditions for the management of municipal activities and for their implementation, which will enable the strengthening of responsibility, rationality and efficiency of local self-government units and public service contractors, increasing investment in the municipal sector and harmonising the principles of carrying out municipal activity with best international practice. The law also creates conditions for informed public monitoring of the process of confidence in municipal activities, by applying the principle of "paying user" and "paying polluter", providing funds for the development and improvement of the necessary municipal infrastructure. By adopting the proposed law, we will allow this activity to develop much faster, so that many citizens of Serbia, who do not have access to elementary municipal services, raise a significant quality of their life levels and that communal activities are carried out at a higher level of quality both at prices and at the quality provided. We come to the third legislative proposal, which is the law on mining and geological research. The reasons why this law is proposed are reflected in the connection of these two areas, because without geological research, primarily mineral resources and reserves, there would be no exploitation of them, and without the exploitation of mineral resources and the reserves of their research would have no purpose. Therefore, the reasons for establishing these areas are one law, not specific laws, as has been the case so far, which are essential in nature and are based on the link between these two areas, which in scientific and technological terms stem from one another, so that reducing the normity in these areas would avoid the imminent repetition of certain provisions, and would also ensure consistent application of basic common principles in terms of rational and efficient research and use of mineral raw materials. The proposed law regulates the measures and activities of mineral policy and the way it is implemented, provides for the adoption of a strategy on mineral resource management, enables a unified and more precise adjustment of the conditions and method of implementation of geological research on mineral and other geological resources, research on geological environments, as well as geological research to plan, design the construction of facilities and recovery of terrains, the way resources and reserves of mineral raw materials and groundwaters are classified, the exploitation of mineral reserves and geothermal resources, the construction, use and maintenance of mining facilities, installations, machinery, equipment, the operation of mining works, the management of mining waste, the recovery of abandoned mining facilities, as well as the supervision of this law, with the implementation of European directives in the field of mining and geology. In the history of the legislative regulation of the Republic of Serbia, it is known that the issues in the field of mining and geological research were regulated by unique regulations, and that was still in the Law on the Mines of the Despot Stefan Lazarevic of 1412; then, the Mining Code of the Kingdom of Serbia, and the Law, which was defined in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, until 1995, when specific laws were passed, and the Law on Geological Research and Mining Law. Problems regarding the application of the same laws have highlighted the need for a single regulation as regulated by other countries of the former Yugoslavia. The proposed law has its basis in all strategic documents and action plans that define the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia as well as in the memorandum and in the 2009 budget, economic and fiscal policy with a projection for 2010 and 2011. Priorities for 2010 also include the creation of a strategy to manage the mineral resources of the Republic of Serbia and it is said that amendments to the law need to be implemented in the field of mining, in order to comply with EU rules. The National Programme for Integration in Chapter 3 point 27 of the environment also discusses the adopted sustainable development strategy for Serbia and the Action Plan adopted with the aim of implementing it to provide a framework for Serbia's sustainable economic development. Pre-exposing concrete measures to preserve resources and with rapid progress in the relevant segments of Serbia's EU approximation. In particular, the issue of mining waste has been regulated and a new basis for the implementation of a very important European directive relating to the mining framework has been set. Therefore, this law took into account all the necessary alignments and translation of the EU directive into our legislation. The proposed law also lays the basis for the education of the state Geological Institute of Serbia, which will deal with geological research of general interest for the Republic of Serbia. The new law will allow for more efficient activities of geological research, mineral resources and exploitation of mineral raw materials. It will encourage the development of mining, regulate the prevention and elimination of harmful consequences caused by the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the closure of mines. It will enable effective collection of charges for the conduct of geological research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, defining the revenues of the state, i.e. units of AP and local self-government, which are of exceptional importance for the living standard of the population. It will achieve full control of the business of economic operators doing both European research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, will implement licensing in the field of mining and geology and will strengthen sanctions for the exercise of the same activities and against the provisions of the law. The adoption of this law will achieve the conditions for the transparent authorisation of geological research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, i.e. the conditions for mining and mineral raw materials-related activities to take up a position that would allow greater contribution to the future, stimulating, economic growth and the possibility of being available in human communities and to support sustainable development in the peace raw materials sector that benefits communities and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The participation of local self-government units and the management of the use of mineral raw materials located on their territory, through trust, authorisation for exploitation and control of them in certain cases shall also be possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the reasons set out in this address to you, I call on you to support this law and I want to say thank you to all the MPs who have submitted a large number of amendments to these laws, the vast majority of them are indeed a contribution to making these laws better, to be much more functional and efficient, and we will accept them with great satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62313	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, MP Jovan Nesovic, the president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62314	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first express my great regret that we are in principle discussing such extraordinary bill proposals in a semi-empty manner, not to say an almost empty hall. In its presentation, on behalf of the Manjin Parliament Club and SVM, talk about the proposal for a law on municipal activities and on the proposal for a law on mining and geological research. If you'll let me start with the third bill. In the current Mining Act, the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials paid by an oil and gas exploitation company is set at 3% of total income, and the new bill provides for a height of 7% of total income. On behalf of the SVM, I must point out that we are extremely pleased that the percentage has been increased from 3% to 7%, but I would like to stress that we have submitted to this amendment, which we suggest that these 7% increase to at least 9%. We're real, we certainly want to commend the government's proposal to increase to 7%, we've been thinking about looking for a 10% increase. I'd like to remind the public and Mr. Minister that two years ago, we had an amendment proposing an increase to 15%, which unfortunately was rejected, so I'm proposing an increase to 9%. And we think it's justified for a few reasons. The exploitation of mineral raw materials is a permanent, continuous process that leads to a permanent outflow of wealth, the very municipalities, and an increase in compensation for the use of mineral raw materials would be very much, even an increase of 1%, very much so for our municipalities that at least part of that wealth would return to them. As we all know and as the European Charter of Local Self-Government states, local authorities are one of the main foundations of every democratic society, preserving and improving local self-government is an important contribution to building a Europe based on the principle of democracy and decentralisation of government. Local authorities under this charter have the right to adequate, own financial resources that they can freely dispose of. The increase in these revenues would not mean much to local self-government alone, so they do not exclude the interest of local self-government, in whose areas these mineral resources are located, but both the Republic and the AP Vojvodina. A significant part of these funds could be used to finance, i.e. co-finance various development projects of the municipality whose realisation is planned in the future. These projects can be in the fields of education, social protection, culture, sports, municipal activities, tourism, or other very important areas for local self-government residents. The increased amount of these funds achieved on the compensation of the use of mineral raw materials could be used to remove damage to existing infrastructure, we are mostly thinking about roads in the municipality created precisely by oil exploitation. The experiences of other countries are also in favour of this amendment and the initiative to increase the percentage of the fee, as the percentage is, for example, Very different in different European countries, e.g. in Hungary, it is 14%, and in some countries it reaches even 30% of the total revenues achieved by the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Our second objection, that is, to our amendment, concerns the problem that the funds achieved in the name of the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials according to the existing, current current legislative regulation at 40% are the income of the Republic of Serbia, at 10% are the income of the AP, and at 50% are the revenues of municipalities on whose territory of course exploits are made. However, this bill and its Article 137 provide for the next schedule, the Republic 40%, the municipality 40% and the competent ministry 20%. In this way, regardless of the fact that everyone knows that the extraction of oil and gas is drastically reducing the very resources of the municipality and that the compensation should return exactly where this poverty is being done, it is proposed to reduce the participation of the municipality from the existing 50%. So, 40%, and the province budget, according to this proposal, is absolutely nothing. Due to this proposal, municipalities would be damaged and even more provinces, SVM MPs have proposed an amendment that we are actually proposing to leave essentially the previous schedule, namely the timetable which was currently in force in a way: that the municipality be given 50% with a reduction in the works that the municipality is given 50% with a reduction of the part of the Republic proposed from 40% to 20% and that 20% of the compensation, according to the proposal, belongs to the ministry, in the event that the exploitation takes place in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is deployed half, half the ministry and the competent authority of the AP. This means that the ministry and the competent authority of the AP would get 10% after these changes, i.e. by accepting our amendment the ratio would be: the municipality 50%, the Republic 50%, the ministry 10%, and that was essentially the previous one. Our final objection to this bill concerns the same member, Article 137, item 5 of the last position of this Member of the Law on Mining and Biological Research, is proposing a way of making available the funds that have been made available from the municipality's oil rental. In fact, this proposal limits the adoption of a specific programme of measures by the competent authority of the municipality to improve the living conditions of local self-government, especially for the construction of infrastructure facilities and other facilities in order to improve living conditions, and that is where the problem arises, to which the consent is given by the competent ministry, i.e. the competent authority of the AP, is thus set out in the proposal. This provision, if it remains this way in the bill, would, unlike the solutions currently in force, mean, the previous law provides for the obligation to obtain the consent of the central government, the compensation programme, and this we consider to be limited to the right to local self-government guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this amendment, means, in fact, centralisation, not decentralisation to which we are all seeking, and the SVM advocates, I would like to stress that it opposes the European Charter and the local self-government, ratified by the Republic of Serbia, whose Article 9th paragraph 7 provides that the subsidy commission must not remove the basic right of local authorities, that under its jurisdiction they have the freedom of political decision. Of course, in the discussion of the details, next week we will discuss the amendments in more detail, and we sincerely hope that the ministry and the government will have a hearing for their acceptance. I'd like to use the remaining time to talk about the Community Labour Act. We only have one technical amendment on this bill. The SVM and the minority parliamentary club believe that the new draft legislation on municipal activities, as we heard from Mr. Minister, is a step forward in regulating this area. The legal text adapts to an already existing situation on the ground, which means that the adoption of this law will create a legal framework for the existing situation, but I must mention that this law could be even more innovative. Until the current legal framework, as we have heard, it has provided no basis for effective and high-quality public performance, nor for the safety and predictability of private investors' business, which was one of the basic problems. The SVM certainly welcomes the protection of public transparency in the process of entrusting municipal activities, as well as the protection of the rights of users, which is extremely significant, the users of municipal services and products to a quality, sustainable and accessible utility service. Public activities, as we all know, involve the performance of the production and delivery of municipal products and of the importance of meeting the needs of natural and legal persons, where the local self-government unit is required to create conditions for ensuring adequate quality, availability and continuity, as well as supervision of their performance. The difference between this, the new bill, and the previous legal framework is that the new bill contains a list of 15 municipal activities, and it has previously contained a list of nine municipal activities. The new bill includes public parking, market management, public lighting, chimney action and hygiene, which is very good. There is also a difference in determining the perpetrators of communal activity in the new Bill proposal, which is to say that the definition of who can be the performer of municipal activity was, in fact, broader, in the current law, public utility companies, as well as companies and entrepreneurs, only if they were entrusted with the performance of certain businesses. Under this new bill of law that we support, communal activity can be carried out by a company, an entrepreneur, a public enterprise, or another business entity. This ensures improved competitiveness, as we have heard, for public utility companies, increases the quality of services in the public service market, as public service companies also participate in the provision of private capital companies, which is of exceptional importance. Our objection, that is, to our amendment, as regards the proposal for a law on municipal activities, concerns the determination of the price of municipal services. The draft law specifically suggests that elements for determining the price of municipal services should be shown in business books and financial reports, expenditure on construction and reconstruction of municipal infrastructure facilities and the purchase of equipment, as well as the profits of employees. It is therefore proposed that one of the elements for determining the price of municipal services be business expenditures shown in business books and financial reports, which is totally fine and understandable, but we believe that, if it remains in this form, experts consider that such a proposal leaves the possibility that the user of municipal services should be needlessly burdened with undue costs and those higher prices of municipal services. It is therefore our proposal to add after this part, that these are business expenditures shown in business books and financial reports, that the methodology, education and correction, the price of municipal services of the institution, that institutions are actually real costs and that, based on these methodologies, these actual costs and the price of municipal services are determined. We certainly try not to burden unnecessary users. What the bill does not regulate, and what I would like to point out, SVM, SVM considers to be a significant regulation of borrowing, as well as capital investment of public enterprises in those situations, if their excessive borrowing could become risky or would endanger macroeconomic economic stability. One of our experts' proposals is that it would not be bad to condition the borrowing of public enterprises by the municipalities or the city's assembly, of course not every borrowing individually, but the SO or the city's assembly could, for example, determine the minimum amount of borrowing from which public enterprises would require the approval of SO or the city's assembly. Our associates have been thinking about whether or not we should suggest that it be city or municipal bigger, but SO and city hall... There are oppositions as well. Similar rules would apply to higher investment by public enterprises. The implementation of communal activity is, when we think about it, a truly meaningful trust in the business, if it is favourable from a macro-economic angle, and from a micro-economic angle, there is certainty that an economic operator who is entrusted with the performance of municipal activities, which produces, provides municipal services, will indeed provide better quality of services and products. In the event that a company carries out market-priced activity and, according to its success balance, operates with a loss in two consecutive years, local self-government should indeed consider continuing co-operation and seek an explanation of the reasons for the loss. When we discussed this topic, we received a very interesting proposal that we should all think about together, through which we will eventually agree in the future. The fact is that in order to increase the efficiency of the work of utility companies, some of these companies may fire several of their employees and keep these people on the street. Therefore, it may be necessary to consider establishing a humanitarian reserve by the public enterprises themselves. The humanitarian reserve would be a framework of funds from which, with proper social control, it could provide grants for one-off assistance to those found in the most difficult situation, if they were found on the street and the funds would be provided by the public companies themselves. Another minor grudge, but we didn't propose an amendment. I just have to point out that in Article 25 of this bill, which refers to the transfer of municipal activity, and after a certain member, the government still controls the work of local self-government, that this may be part of a member in part contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which states that the powers given to local self-government cannot in any way be violated or restricted by other central or regional authority. To sum up, in the end, respected Mr. Minister and Associates, so this is about good bill proposals, but I suggest you seriously consider our amendments and that in the debate in particular we talk about them in more detail, since the deadline was now recent, you may not have been able to see, we have otherwise submitted these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62315	Does the minister want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62316	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62317	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62318	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I must say at the beginning that I am sorry that we are talking about extremely important laws in this composition. They're very important to the lives of the citizens. We are talking about them in the congregation mostly us who will uphold this law. With that in mind, I will shorten my exposure because I do not want to compromise with you, and we will support these laws, but with those who have a different opinion, who think these laws are not good, and all with a view to adopting Serbia's best law. I want to say when this issue and responsibility to the citizens of Serbia bear both the position and the opposition, of course, each in line with their role. And I'm worried about the situation in Kosovo and there's no MP here who's not worried, but we're not going to help by misusing the assembly, that is, the state of the assembly, we're not going to help by putting out one flammable situation with gasoline, we're going to help by allowing the state authorities to do their jobs, by asking the state authorities for information about it, by calling people to peace, not using force. We won't achieve anything by arguing with each other, and there's no parliamentary group here that doesn't even have this much responsibility when it comes to the subject. For these reasons, however, I will say that the congregation does not waste time, the congregation spends time regardless of the situation, and it is ready at any moment to respond to these needs too. I promised I'd cut it short. The three laws, therefore, will support the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day. All three laws the parliamentary group considers to be extremely important laws and calls on the minister, the ministry to pay great attention to all amendments, without looking at who submitted them, all with the aim of making good laws for such an important area. When it comes to the Mining and Geological Research Act, it is both the area and the laws that have a centuries-old tradition in Serbia, so not just an area, not just an activity, but also a legislative regulation of that activity. Here is the goal and the attempt to arrange the area in one place and to allow for development in the area, of course, respecting both the environment and everything that is happening outside that area. We have several very concrete amendments aimed at improving the text, to clarify, without entering, without hitting and questioning the essence. I would like to draw particular attention to the use of this time of debate and to pay attention to the part of the law that speaks of determining general interest. We've got one current situation on the Kolubara mining base. We have a situation that the Kolubara mining base must expand its field of action because it will question very quickly something that is the strategic interest of all Serbian citizens, there will be no coal, there will be no energy. Therefore, no dilemma should be made that this strategic interest must be taken and the state must make it possible, but it must also be in accordance with the law, it must be right and fair and that is the only way to resolve this issue. I also warn you to pay attention to the part that speaks, usually the job ends and forgets, talks about the recovery and decultification of the land. There's land, water, air everywhere in those areas. It's all worked out, it's all questionable. It must be predicted from research through exploitation and such action to bring it into the state that it was before. When it comes to amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings, a brief, one position, that we will support change, we think that it is a completely correct decision of the court because it cannot be someone who has a larger area that has more rights in governance than someone who has a smaller surface and we totally agree with that, but I have one question to think about. With a change like this, we'll have three types of voting. One is mostly members, stays mostly towards the surface of the apartment and stays mostly present. Is that a problem? Did article 17 have to be changed because it's talking about investment maintenance? It has been retained that more than half of the owners of apartments and business parts of buildings that have more than half the surface, as well as these provisions relating to flat roofs, which refer to common rooms, are also something that can go into investments, flat roofs, especially investment roofs, so to speak. Is there any thought about changing that too? When it comes to communal activity, again, the shortest, when looking at the definition, the notion of communal activity, as a function that produces and delivers municipal products or provides a communal service, which is very important for the lives of citizens and where the municipality, the city or the City of Belgrade is obliged to provide conditions in that area and for the scope and availability of both quality and quality, etc., these services, I am now asking – is there something more important for the municipality to perform its functions, the city or the City of Belgrade and for citizens to have neat drinking water, that there is heating, transport, collection of waste water, etc., those life issues of citizens, daily? That's why this law is very important. That is why it is very important to once again highlight these principles on which it is based, in fact, the goals that are to be achieved by law, not only the principle of being based on efficiency, quality, rationality, competition and improvement, etc., and the objective that is sought in this area, I particularly want to highlight the protection of the rights of users of municipal services. I want to point out the need for stable funding, to point out that in this area, economic prices will have to be expressed at some point, but also the seriousness and social responsibility of the state and local self-government is that through one step. In particular, I would like to point out that citizens who do not have the opportunity to pursue the financing of these activities have the right to municipal services and that this is the place of the state, i.e. local self-government to provide such citizens. So when you look at it all, it's about one very important, important law. I'll just give you a few short questions. When it comes to the provision of municipal services, where it is defined exactly who does it, the public enterprise, not to list, companies, entrepreneurs, etc., is a great opportunity to trust businesses, but also dangers. I want to point out this, because by trusting in the activities of performing municipal activity, it is an opportunity to apply a law that is also in the process, which is the Law on Public and Private Partnership. I think that it will have the most places in this area and when it comes to performing municipal activity and especially when it comes to the development and construction of municipal infrastructure, but also the responsibility of local self-government units, how will it do so and of course, and the question of whether all actions can be entrusted, other than the public enterprise? Can water production be entrusted to someone else? We don't think it can, can't heat it, can't transport it, can't run it, can't do it. On the one hand, a great opportunity, and on the other hand, a great responsibility of the local self-government units to do it all the way. Also, I want to point out another question, when it comes to the performance of this action, the main player, so to speak, is the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade, because they need to create conditions and ensure both coverage and scope and quality and accessibility, etc. communal performance. It is they who determine both rights and obligations and service providers, on the one hand, and users, on the other hand. They're the ones who need to predict not only here, as said in one place. Data is one option, when it comes to, let's say, the obligations of the service user, the Institute is being introduced to suspend the municipal service. It is a very serious question, which must be considered seriously. Of course, there is one thing, he says – it can be denied if he does not pay for the communal service established within the time limit. Okay, it's normal to pay for a utility service, but can any communal service be denied? Can the water be cut off? It is given here that the unit of local self-government which determines in which case and under what conditions, but also the unit of local self-government must assume responsibility if it regulates in which conditions and in which cases it can suspend, must also establish responsibility and obligation for the service provider what if it does not perform or unquality service, what if it delivers or does not deliver a communal product or deliver unqualityly? There's got to be that balance. In the end, when it comes to funding, the greater problem with these operations is actually funding. We all know that there is no real development in this area at no economic cost, but I also want to support these principles, when it comes to price fixing, and especially two, on one hand enough, means it has to be enough for it to work, but also the other one that talks about accessibility, about the fact that whoever uses it can pay for it. There is an expression of that requirement, a position, a wish by the legislator that the municipality, the city, the City of Belgrade can subsidise certain categories of population. It's a real measure, not on the burden of utility companies, of utility service providers. This obligation must be made by the State, or local self-government, to take over itself. It's a social function. I will give you an example of Belgrade, with great pleasure, where the city's power is already fully mandated to pay particular attention to this. More than 50,000 households in Belgrade have subsidies for municipal services. That's over a billion plus for total social contributions, that's over six billion. It is a commitment of both states and local self-government, because those who cannot pay can also have the right to municipal services, which should be compensated by the state or the municipality. Given that there will be discussions in particular, and when they will be able to talk more specifically, given that we will support these laws in the procedure, given the state of the assembly, I will support all three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62319	16 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62320	Thank you. First of all, thank you both to each and every speaker for a truly well-worked theme and for defining these problems that we also see as problems. You know very well, when such important laws are written, they are debated and debated in a club that is a very broad social context and require a large number of compromises. I've had a few very important sentences that you've both said. One of them is that the Community Labour Act has not brought up-to-date things into this sector. I must say that from the very beginning, the problem of the Community Labour Act has been burdened with several extremely important factors in society, and this is primarily the fact that the municipal area has not been reformed at all in the last 20 years, that there are very strong trade unions that work in municipal activities and the impact of municipal activities on our citizens' daily lives is extremely large, that there is a great fear that there is no such situation in the municipal sectors, as has happened in other social enterprises, when it comes to the privatisation process, and it took us a lot of time and energy to explain that these laws do not define the privatisation of municipal enterprises, but define the introduction of private capital into existing municipal enterprises, the association of property of municipal enterprises with private capital, in order to get one new value, and to improve the public services, to ensure that we have modernised the services in the 21st sector, that our services would have been made available to the 21st. That was one big problem. Another question was that today, regardless of what we have passed a law that we truly believe is good, that it is advanced, that it will allow in the Law on Public and Private Partnerships, great progress in this area, new employment, great investment, that is the issue of public interest protection. We know very well what kind of problem we always face when it comes to protecting public interest. So far, the practice has shown that a large number of public and private partnerships, which have been established in Serbia so far, have not led to the fact that, on the one hand, we have one better municipal service, an interest in the private investor, new employment and protection of public interest in any case. So that's not what's happened so far, and I'm going to say one example, and I think it's exactly the best example in one other area, which we as the Ministry are covering, which is environmental protection, that is, the problem of waste management. The company that comes to offer its service in terms of private investment comes with 20 of the best lawyers from some side of the country. On the other hand, they are facing a small local self-government, which may have one or two employees who have no experience, not even in writing a contract. Such a local self-government on the one hand, and that firm on the other hand, sign the contract. Who do you think is better protected in that contract? We have huge problems, that now as a state, of course, defending public interest, because we cannot let local self-government get into the problem of losing in courts, because it is certainly a problem for the state of Serbia. Now we have to produce a procedure, which will in all future cases of public and private partnerships, maximum protection of public interest, but which will not be so complex, complicated to prevent investment in the communal sphere that they have to come into. When you say it's not enough, to say, modernizing, it's made in accordance with what's at this point in time the current state of the municipal sphere, on the one hand, and the necessity of our local self-government to develop a communal infrastructure in the future. Also, I think the law has introduced a newspaper that is extremely important and has proved to be the only way we can improve various municipal infrastructures, which is a better inter-municipal organisation. We were three-and-a-half years old as Ministry, a situation where the Waste Management Act and then the Waste Management Strategy envisioned the formation of ecological regions, the association of municipalities around regional deposit management, the management of waste in a territory that is wider than one municipality. The way they're faced, of course with all our social weaknesses, is, above all, the possibility of very difficult bargaining, of finding compromises. The way the municipalities organized was quite problematic. That was why, in 2008, when we took over this sector and the responsibility for implementing reforms in it, there was almost no regional waste management agreement. Today, the vast majority of Serbia has managed to establish a regional base, but the quality of these companies' work remains poor, precisely because there was no good law to define. The decision-making processes are extremely slow, because almost every decision concerning the regional centre must be implemented through the procedure of making local municipalities, which you can imagine how complicated it is and how long it is, when it comes to fast and operational decisions to be made by people who are responsible and at these lower levels. I just think we've managed to solve this problem with this law. I'll be very brief, thank you very much and, of course, all of your amendments will be considered. I think the honourable SVM MP has launched one topic that has been tried by this law to be defined, but the amendment has to be corrected, and this is a question of redistributing mining rents to some future users. First of all, I want to say that we are extremely proud that, regardless of the great resistance that existed, we have raised a mining rent in Serbia and have brought it closer to a European average. The mining rental was a big stumbling block. I must say that Serbia was the country that had the lowest mining rental in all of Europe. Of course, all those involved in exploitation have a problem, when you tell them they're going to have to pay more. On the other hand, the problem with this country was that, due to the low ore rent, on the one hand, but on the other hand, the insufficiently defined target institutions where the mining rentals were being spent, we had a situation that our mines were in extremely poor shape, that there was a big problem with non-investment in modernisation. There are major security issues in the work of our miners. There's a huge degradation of the environment. There are huge problems regarding the protection of the health of people living in municipalities where exploitation is done, on the one hand. On the other hand, the collected ore rent, mostly ends in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and very little funds ends up where it is needed, and that is for the key things that must be financed in mines, in addition to the revenues of the budget, which are – improving the working conditions of miners, modernising our mines, and what is very important, environmental protection. With this redistribution of money, with increased ore rent, we will achieve the effects that, by forming a fund, that is, of the funds that the ministry will spend on miners, projects that will be defined in advance will be funded. This law defines improvement of work, protection of work, protection of the environment. It will be targeted funds that will be collected, as the first benefit, and on the other hand we will allow local self-governments to have that income that will have to be spent in accordance with the programme that we will define and what we have missed to do, and what we will do, by accepting one amendment. There are several amendments that define the province's relations, local self-government. We will ensure that the province continues to have a share of its resources, with which they will have to have a dedicated fund, i.e. a fund spent in accordance with a programme that we will jointly define. It is our goal that every single dinar collected by the exploitation of ore is spent on the effects of the environment and human health, in some ways compensate. That's what our goal is. With this mining law, and I will end it, we have opened the potential of a major investment in the state of Serbia – economic development and the creation of new jobs. I want to say that statistics say that our plan and projection, that precisely thanks to the reforms in this area, we can ensure that in the next 10 years, mining is invested between three and 3.5 billion euros. At this point, the physical volume of mining production is 80 million tons. Our goal is to increase it by a third and make it 120 million tonnes in 2020. This increase over the next eight or nine years, with 25,000 employees, as far as we have in the mining sector today, will allow it to rise to 30,000 jobs. We're not talking about opening 5,000 jobs, we're primarily talking about preserving the 25,000 jobs we have today. Because, believe me, a large part of it, especially the underground explosion is at this point financially, or economically, inconclusive, but we're keeping it as a state, that it exists. We are talking about preserving the existing 25,000 jobs and opening 5,000 new jobs by 2020, thanks to the law that we are adopting today. The industry's income is about 1.2 billion euros today. It is due to increase by 2.3 billion euros, thanks also to the regulation we are adopting today. What is extremely important, income with tied industrial branches, from three billion euros should be increased to six billion euros. We are talking about the basis for a significant social and economic development of our country. It is our estimate that income, i.e. the participation of mining in the gross national income of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to what we are doing today, will increase from the current 2% to 5% in 2020. When we talk about 2020, it may seem very far away to someone, but everyone has to know that the mining area is an area that eats time and takes an extremely long time to think, from the moment it is thought, that there's some kind of ore somewhere that might be interesting to exploit until the very exploitation itself, it's going to take a lot of years. What we can also finally say is that Serbia is a country that is extremely rich in ores, mineral raw materials, Serbia is a country that, thanks to reforms, can find its way and can find the basis for development, especially the most underdeveloped regions in Serbia, which are also the richest in ore and mineral raw materials. So today we can say that thanks to this law, sublegal acts and strategies that we have now opened up the potential for the development of the Alexine swimming pool, we will, of course, allow big investments to take place in all those areas in Serbia where we are now traditionally mining, and when it comes to copper and gold, that we have new encouraging sites when it comes to lithium, which are at this point in the research phase, that we also have new sites of some rare metals, and some even say finds that are the largest sites in the northern hemisphere. It gives us reason and faith that we have very optimistic announcements when it comes to this area. All the amendments you have submitted, and most of them are really good, what I can promise you is that with my team and with me together these days, you will have the necessary meetings to bring this law into line with what our goal is. What I am pleased to see is that through your amendments we see that you have understood the necessity of reform in these areas and that you have understood the possibility of really preserving jobs in these areas and opening new jobs to make life for our people better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62321	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to take a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62322	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have three very important laws that are of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, which is the proposal for a law on mining and geological research. The other two laws, the draft law supplementing the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings and the proposal for a law on municipal activities, are laws concerning all our citizens and are very important. I am disappointed that there are no representatives of the opposition today when such important topics are being discussed. These are the laws where there should be one general agreement that they are adopted and that we give our citizens better conditions for life. The proposal for a law on municipal activities is based on the following principles: efficiency and quality of the provision of municipal services, competition of public service contractors, improvement of the business of public service contractors, monitoring of the results of public service contractors, protection of public interest, protection of the rights of users of municipal services, security of stable financing of municipal activities, phasing out economic prices and protection of rights to the most vulnerable categories of the population. There is hardly any local self-government in Serbia that does not face serious problems in implementing these actions. I come from one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, the municipality of Kučevo, where of the 22 local communities, the removal of municipal waste has been regulated into only two, Kučevo and Rabrovo. In all others, the locals themselves tend to solve the problem. Under this law, a unit of local self-government will provide organisational, material and other conditions for the performance of municipal activities and their development. Article 8 of this Act obliges local self-government units and operators to submit reports and data relating to these activities at the request of the competent ministry, which monitors the quality of the provision of these services. Article 9 of this Act regulates the process of trust in the exercise of municipal activity, which local self-government determines by its parliamentary decisions. I find this member very important. Simply, the capacity of our municipal public enterprises is what it is and is not enough to cover all the needs of locals of all local communities in local self-government. Article 10 shall regulate the performance of municipal activities for two or more units of local self-government. The law regulates the rights and obligations of operators and users of municipal services. Article 28 defines the sources of funds for the construction of municipal infrastructure, but a member of the 30th exercise of inspection supervision. When asked whether the positive effects of the law justify costs, it can be answered that the positive effects of the adoption of this law exceed the costs of improving the quality of municipal services, improving the competitiveness of municipal companies, as well as establishing standards on the quality of municipal services. I have submitted an amendment to Article 25 to this law, and I will discuss it in detail when the debate is under amendments. What is very important to define by this law is often happening that units of local self-government when they adopt the height of municipal taxis calculate it on a flat-rate basis. In my municipality, for example, there is an abuse of a local municipal tax, a communal tax to protect the environment, so citizens, not just contaminants, but ordinary citizens, house owners, sheds and other residential buildings, pay a very high environmental tax. The Government should therefore, by means of its act closer to prescribing public fees, then, the basis for calculating the amount of municipal compensation, the criteria for calculating the amount of municipal compensation, the maximum amount of municipal compensation, the exemption and other issues of importance for determining the amount and the payment of municipal compensation. Of course, the unit of local self-government determines and charges compensation, but it is very important to prescribe the coefficients and all of this by one act that is very important. The second law, which is very important for our citizens living in cities, is the bill on additions to the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings. After buying apartments, this has become a serious problem facing citizens. They often face the problems of those living on the lower floors and those living on the higher ones, whether they are sneezing or failings in the waternet and sewerage. It is simply necessary to regulate these additions and this segment that, of course, impairs all of our citizens. The third law, strategically, is the draft law on mining and geological research. I would like to commend the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Mining and Spatial Planning on well-prepared laws. Many laws have passed this congregation, some have been well prepared, some have had shortcomings, so we messengers have removed them. These are well-prepared laws. What is significant to me as an MP is that this law prevents what was happening in earlier years, which is obtaining permits for some research works, which many companies have used and sold under the pretext of research. That's what happened in the past. It happened ten years ago. This was also the case with my municipality in some period, and then local self - administration then had to after court proceedings to pay some huge fees and expenses for something that was questionable whether or not it was even done under what conditions it was made. The ZES parliamentary group will support these three laws. They are important, both for the state of Serbia and for all our citizens. Once again, I thank Minister Oliver Dulic, and I am taking the opportunity to thank him for the funds he provided for the development of a spatial plan of the municipality of Kučevo, which is about two million and 800 thousand, which is very important, because I come from one of the most underdeveloped municipalities and it was very difficult for local self-government itself to provide funds for such an important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-20-0.u62323	Are any of the other authorised representatives of the Parliamentary Groups reporting for a word that they are using their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), until the opening of a common principle search, the application for a word in writing, and with the order of Members of Parliament, has not been submitted by any parliamentary group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been declared for the word and before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does the Minister want the word? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law supplementing the laws on the maintenance of residential buildings, the proposal for a law on municipal activities and the proposal for a law on mining and geological research. This is what we end the session of the National Assembly for today. On the basis of Article 90, two notifications: for Monday, 24 October 2011, starting at 10 a.m., the President of the National Assembly of Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the sixth special session of the National Assembly, with the agenda of one item: Discussions of the Republic Government's response to the interpretation on the legality of work, business and responsibilities of Minister of Faith and Diaspora Srdjan Srekovic, who submitted a group of 57 MPs to the SRS group, and we will gather on Monday 24 October, at 10 o'clock to work on the proposed agenda. I also remind all present members of the National Assembly College that the session of the College is scheduled for 24 October at 9:00 p.m. The work of this session, which is under way, will continue on Tuesday, October 25th, by opening a joint general search on the 10th, 11th and 12th points of the agenda. Thank you.
