ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50948	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. This special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, His Excellency Mr Mevlut Cavusoglu. I am honored to also welcome, on behalf of the MPs, Nadia Cuk, Deputy Chief of Mission of the Council of Europe in Belgrade, Artemia Karpenka, adviser to the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ali Unal, Media Advisor of the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and Sladjana Prica, Deputy Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs. I ask His Excellency Mr. Mevlut Cavusoglu, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50949	Madam President, dear colleagues and friends, it is my great honor and pleasure to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. The Balkans is one of the priorities of my mandate. Since I was elected President of the Parliamentary Assembly in January 2010, I have visited several countries in the region. It is Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Romania and Bulgaria. In about two months, I will visit Croatia. I am therefore very grateful to the President of Parliament for inviting me to visit Serbia and for giving me the opportunity to address you. Dear colleagues, as you know, the Council of Europe was founded more than 60 years ago after World War II by political leaders who had a strong will to prevent similar tragic conflicts from ever happening again. In order to build lasting peace, our founders decided to concentrate the work of the Council of Europe on the so-called "soft security", based on common values and standards, against "hard security", based on national defence and collective defence agreements. However, this'soft security' and the stability of Europe can only be achieved by strengthening democracy and human rights and the rule of law. These are the foundations of our common European home, which today brings together 47 countries – all European countries except Belarus. So 27 EU countries also share the same values, which are reflected particularly in the current European Union accession process to the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why over the past twenty years, the Council of Europe has become a real school of democracy, and some will even say the EU lobby. Dear friends, today the European perspective of the Western Balkans is more realistic than ever before. The Parliamentary Assembly fully supports the countries of the region in their quest to join the European Union. A lot of progress has already been made in this field. You already know that. The Stabilisation and Association process, involving all countries in the region, provides us with a fantastic opportunity to modernise our societies and strengthen the necessary institutional and economic reforms based on common values and standards. That's how people get close to each other physically. Since December 2010, the Western Balkan countries have become an area of visa-free regime, so that citizens of all countries in the region can travel freely, share experiences and learn from neighbours. This is the tangible result of European integration, which is used by all people in this region. Dear friends, in the past few years Serbia has done much in the process of European integration. Europe is the strategic goal of the Serbian people and the political priority of the government of Serbia and Parliament. Serbia has officially applied for EU membership and the European Commission is now preparing an opinion on this request. Getting candidate status is not an easy task. A great political commitment is needed, as well as a lot of hard work in terms of bringing domestic legislation into line with Member States' practices. I know that from my own experience. My country, Turkey, had to implement very very ambitious reforms to open membership negotiations. I am sure that in the coming weeks and months, you Parliamentarians will have to put forth a lot of effort to pass these necessary laws and to do so within the already established deadlines. Of course, there are always different opinions on how and how key reforms are implemented. Most opposition usually disagree with that way and it is natural that in times of economic crisis, when funds are missing and governments are implementing austerity measures to meet social obligations, when the deficit is high, disagreements between political forces are even stronger. It's a normal part of the democratic process. A peaceful and constructive dialogue is important for society to move forward, but disagreements among politicians should not slow down the necessary reforms. European integration is Serbia's legitimate political priority, as well as the key national interest. That is why I call on all the political forces in your country to work constructively to adopt laws that are in line with European standards in key reform areas, in order to meet all the necessary conditions in order to obtain the 'deserved EU candidate status'. Dear colleagues and friends, EU membership is the future Serbia wants, but membership in the Council of Europe is Serbia's present. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the necessity to end the implementation of Serbia's pre-accession obligations, as well as the constitutional obligations to the Council of Europe. One of the key remaining commitments is full co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Authorities in Serbia have already shown their political readiness to fulfil this obligation and arrest two remaining indictees Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, but the political will must also be translated into concrete results. I therefore appeal to all in Serbia not to spare efforts to enable and facilitate the search for the remaining indictees. It is in Serbia's national interest to close this chapter of recent history and move forward. Dear colleagues, co-operation with The Hague tribunal is important, but there are some remaining issues. In fact, the remaining commitments and statutes to the Council of Europe are virtually identical to the requirements set out by the EU. Let me give you just a few examples. In the latest monitoring report, the Council of Europe Assembly asked for Serbia to reform its electoral system, to amend the rules under which the mandates are assigned to Parliament, to strengthen judicial independence, strengthen efforts to fight corruption, and continue to advance the mechanisms for protection of minority rights. In these recommendations, the SE Assembly proposed that the Serbian parliament develop a concrete road map to end the remaining reforms. I know that the rapporteurs of the Assembly are working closely with the Serbian delegation on preparing this road map and are looking forward to hearing the progress assessments on this front. I also welcome the concrete steps that Parliament has taken in meeting the Parliament's recommendations. Making amendments to the electoral law is a step in the right direction. I encourage you to take full advantage of the knowledge and experience of the Venice Commission in making laws in the major reform areas. Dear friends and colleagues, regional stability is the key to the Western Balkans' European perspective. Not long ago, this region was the scene of the terrible wars that broke out after the former Yugoslavia fell apart. These wars were the most tragic events in our recent history. We all have a duty to ensure that such conflicts never happen in the future again. In this context, I would like to welcome Serbia's contribution to the region's reconciliation process. The adoption by the National Assembly of Declaration condemning the Srebrenica massacre is obviously an important step in this process. Recent intensification of relations with Croatia, as well as a joint visit by President Tadic and Josipovic Vukovar also set a very positive example for the region. Addressing President Tadic to the SE Assembly in January, in which he shared with us his thinking and concrete proposals to improve reconciliation, was very well received by members of the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm sure his personal commitment and engagement will help make further progress in this process. The firm commitment of political leaders to this definition is the key to success, but it is not the only one. Declarations must be supported by concrete actions aimed at resolving missing issues, improving refugee returns, local integration where possible, developing pluralistic and shared views of the past and recent events. In this regard, I would like to encourage you to fully apply the recommendations of the SE Assembly contained in the recently adopted resolution "Resurrection and political dialogue of the former Yugoslavia countries". Dear colleagues and friends, I believe that Serbia is a key factor in the success of European integration in the Balkans because of its geographical position, economic strength and potential cultural and historical ties. Serbia must also set an example to support its neighbours' efforts to get closer to Europe as well. This brings me to the desire to share with you the thoughts of the two specific challenges we face in the region. First, we must support reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is currently lagging behind in the European integration process. Serbia's role in this process is crucial. The Dayton Peace Accords brought peace to people and different ethnic communities in BiH. The Dayton mechanism of joint exercise of state authority, based on division on ethnic lines, was crucial in stabilising the country and restoring confidence. But now, 16 years after the war is over, BiH needs a new political institutional model to move on. Dayton rules must evolve to allow politicians and citizens from different ethnic and cultural miles to develop a common vision of BiH and its European future. In order to meet BiH's commitments, constitutional reform is needed. Not only should the Constitution be brought into line with the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights and Additional Protocols, but it should also ensure that all BiH institutions have the necessary powers and full capacity to implement the necessary reforms, so that all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina benefit from European integration, regardless of their ethnic background. Of course, reforms should not be imposed on the outside. Future amendments and additions to the Constitution should be based on the work of domestic experts and the broadest possible consensus of all political forces in the country. Therefore, the Assembly advocates the establishment of a very serious domestic institutional process for writing amendments and additions to the Constitution. We are also ready to give political support and provide professional assistance. I plan to go to BiH at the end of this month to facilitate talks between key political actors, but we are also counting on your help to provide BiH politicians with support for this initiative. Secondly, the situation in Kosovo is a key challenge for the region, as well as for Europe as a whole. As you know, the Council of Europe has established a status neutral approach based on recognition of the validity of Resolution 1244. In fact, in our previous resolutions, we focused not on Kosovo's status, but on standards. Kosovo must set those standards in order to be a safe place for all who live on it and a place where our common standards are respected. That is why we have decided to initiate dialogue with representatives of the political forces elected in the Kosovo Assembly. Representatives of the Kosovo Assembly are invited to our committee meetings whenever issues related to Kosovo are discussed directly. Through this process, we can bring our principles and standards closer to them, so they can use them in their work. In this context, I must say that we look forward to starting talks between Belgrade and Pristina, in line with EU standards. We hope that these talks will help to find a solution to the problems faced by individuals living in this area, regardless of their ethnic and cultural background and the language they speak. People living in Kosovo are citizens of Europe and must enjoy the same standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of law as anyone in Europe. We all need to work together to achieve this goal as well. Dear friends, at this point there are many important questions on the agenda of the congregation. Just to mention -- Europe is now facing a number of major challenges, such as a general increase in extremism, intercultural and interfaith dialogue and strengthening our human rights protection system -- and I look forward to discussing these issues with members of Serbia's delegation in Strasbourg during our sessions. The impact of the work of the Assembly depends heavily on the active contribution of all its members. That is why I am very much counting on your support and active participation in our work. At the same time, I would like to wish you success in your hard efforts of full challenge and I want to assure you of the full support of the SE Assembly. Together, we can make European integration realistic for all people living in Serbia and the region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50950	Thank you very much, Mr. Chavusoglu. I conclude the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I would like to inform the MPs that after a 30-minute break, we will continue to work on the agenda of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly in 2011, with a general search on the 3rd point of the agenda – the proposal for a law on sport. So we continue at 11.00. Thank you. (The session is closed at 10.25 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50951	FIRST SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION ON 7 March 2011 (Third Day of Work) (The session began at 11.05 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50952	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, 101 MPs attend. To determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are conditions for work in the Hall of 96 MPs. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Konstantin Samofalov. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session next to the representative of the promoter Snezana Samardzic Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, as well as Dragan Atanasov, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports, and Suzana Šulejic, Secretary of the Youth and Sports Ministry. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a SPORT LAW (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Youth and Sports, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament Group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of Minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda of the parliamentary group, the following MPs will be: MP Arpad Fremond, MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia - Unity Serbia, MP Simo Vukovic, MP of the G17 Plus, MP Aleksandar Pejcic, MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica, MP of Sladjan Mijaljević, Serbian Radical Party Group and Nebojsa Rangelovic, Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposer's representative, Ms. Youth and Sports Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Madam Minister. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic Markovic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50953	Honorable Madam President, dear MPs, sport is a system of values that every society should cultivate and develop. The basis of this system of values is that only by working, not in haste or fraud, but by persistent, continuous disciplined work, results are achieved. Sport has its own multiple role in society. Of course, the most visible are competitions and top-notch successes. But sport also has an educational dimension, because children learn teamwork, discipline, respect for opponents, fair-playing, learn to lose and receive honor, because it's important for future life. Sport also has a health dimension, because physical activity and recreation are the first bed of prevention, and good health is a prerequisite for superior results. Sport also has a promotional dimension, as it successfully represents our country in the world, and clubs from small and large cities carry the names of these places with pride. Sport also has an economic dimension, because it represents the momentum of tourist offer, infrastructure development, service and production activities in its environment. In the end, sport also has a scientific dimension, as many modern achievements can be applied in its development. Sport is, of course, analogy to life itself, because it can be a microcosm of ups and downs, triumphs and defeats; sport can also be unpredictable and unfair, often difficult, but with cooperation, teamwork and dedication there is an opportunity for success, for creation and inspiration. Hence, it is no wonder that sport in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stands out as an area of special interest for the Republic. With everything in mind, the need for system-based sports is justified in a modern and comprehensive way. That is why before you MPs and in front of the general public Serbia is a proposal for a new law on sports. In the text of this proposal it was done on several occasions, in its genealogy several groups of experts and administrative staff were embodied in its knowledge. During the work on the law, there were indeed many contributions from various sides: from border alliances, from clubs, from local communities, from central institutions, from NGOs, from government bodies. It is understood that some requirements could not be included in the text. For example, there was a requirement for football players to have an unfettered job experience because they work on Sundays! For example, the requirement that athletes cannot leave Serbia before 28 years ago has not been classified because not only individual rights and freedoms are being violated, it is contrary to EU legislation. Since during today's plenary debate, both love and excellent knowledge of sports in this legislative body will be seen in principle, I need not further explain the argument against such demands, but rather enough to mention the case of Bosnia. The largest number of suggestions we have included in the proposal, because everything that can improve the system is welcome. Before this version entered the public debate, we did a comparative analysis of the law, intensive consultations with colleagues from other countries. I must say that the Spanish Minister of Sports, Mr. Lisavesky, whose lawyers stayed in Serbia for several days and even participated in a public debate. I also spoke to the President of UEFA, Mr Platini, in person, about certain provisions in the law, and he sent his lawyers to help us with our norms. We agreed with European legislation, the White Paper of the EU, the sports documents of the Council of Europe. We compared our solutions to the most advanced countries, as well as the examples in the region. Nevertheless, we have before us a bill that is neither Spanish nor Italian, nor Norwegian, nor Slovenian, but a Serbian sport model. It will apply to Serbian sport, and Serbian sport has its own tradition, its results, and thus its specificities. This is a modern European law, because we took care of it, but the sport model is Serbian, because it was created according to the needs of Serbian athletes. The basic principles on which the law rests are: the principle of free practice of sport, the principle of the protection of the health of athletes, the principle of expertise, the principle of dedicated use of sports facilities, the principle of transparent and dedicated use of funds from public income. The main objective of the new law is to introduce the system into sport, in line with modern requirements. An analysis of the application of the applicable law, which was passed in 1996, and the problems facing both state authorities and sports organisations in the field, has shown that a new sport law is needed to further improve the situation in Serbia's sport. The proposal for a law on sport is the result of a broad consultation process and represents, in a way, the norm of sports reality, which is significantly different and more demanding than in 1996, when the applicable Sport Act was adopted. That's where the paper's in the text. Some of the newspapers in the bill are: the introduction of the pyramidal structure of sports; the obligation of health insurance of athletes; the obligation of licensing; supervision and inspection; national recognitions and awards; the obligation to develop a strategy for sport development, which was so far not the case; more precisely regulation of school sports; recording and privatisation; the formation of a national advice for sport; the distinction of amateur and professional sport; of course, many others. A significant newspaper is setting up a system of sports. It is made of natural and legal persons engaged in sports activities and sports activities. The fact is that today amateur and professional sports represent a completely different dimension of sports. The needs of amateur and professional athletes are very different. In order to coordinate and meet the needs of all athletes, the proposal makes a clear distinction between amateurs and professionals and introduces different types of rights and obligations. For example, a professional athlete must have a contract on work with a sports organisation. There are rules on mutual rights and obligations for sports organisations and professional athletes, with the aim of protecting professional athletes, on the one hand, and to enable sports organisations to work uninterrupted and the continuity of sports results in relation to the funds invested, on the other. Furthermore, a top athlete can professionally engage in sports activities and activities in individual sports and as an independent professional athlete, i.e. as an entrepreneur. It's a significant newspaper compared to the existing law. Then, the sports organisation is obliged to conclude a contract to secure its top athletes from the consequences of the accident. On the other hand, they're amateur athletes. In order to protect and support the development of amateur sport, the possibility of closing a contract on sports activities, which are concluded by athletes, amateur competitors, and sports organisations, which are determined, for example, to pay for sports activities, cash and other fees for the sports results achieved and costs of accommodation and nutrition during sports preparations. Also, given that apart from amateur athletes and professional athlete today knows the category of athletes among this traditional division, the proposal introduces a category of so-called. Athletes of the contestants. The proposal recognises the need for talented young people, who represent the future of sports in Serbia, to conclude a contract to scholarship a minor athlete for sports training. It sets out, in accordance with sports rules, for example, scholarships and expenses for accommodation and nutrition during preparation and competition. The goal of this approach is to support and encourage sport at the top level, on the one hand, but also to allow the base of sport, recreational, school sport and other sports to remain preserved and in some way to remain available to the widest circle of people. Indeed, as you can see, we have tried to appreciate the shades that exist in practice. In addition, given that sport today is much more demanding in terms of physical and mental preparation, the proposal in relation to the Law very precise and comprehensively regulates the issue of general and special health skills and introduces mandatory reviews of all athletes, with a view to avoiding or at least significantly reducing the possibility of injury. The paper in the proposal is regulation of so-called. other people in the sports system. Other people, these are all sports players who contribute and improve sports through their work without being athletes. The reason for introducing this newspaper is the fact that, of course, the quality of sport depends on the improvement of professional work in sport. The basic subject matter of regulation is, as well as in the applicable law, the form of sports organisations as associations. But the way we regulate it is different. Taking into account the autonomy of sports and without the tendency to compromise this autonomy in any way, the proposal has given a legal minimum that must meet every sports organisation. The goal is to preserve this traditional form from today's unequivocal commercialisation. For example, the conditions of the establishment of sports organisations as associations, the content of general acts, the possibility of status changes, sports arbitration, etc. They are in line with new regulations in this area, and mandatory bodies within the sports association and their responsibility for work are specified. In view of the fact that the practice so far has shown that the funds needed for the operation of the association are significantly higher than those obtained by either subsidies, donations or revenue from the budget, the proposal opens up the possibility that sports associations can establish a company or another legal entity, in accordance with the law, to obtain the necessary funds. In doing so, the sports association - the founder has an obligation to use the overall net profit achieved by the company to achieve its sport goals established by the association's statutes. The proposal envisioned conditions for the establishment and operation of the so-called sports companies, in order to preserve precisely sporting activity and to avoid such established companies in practice engaged in other activities, perhaps to a greater extent than sports. Therefore, the proposal stipulates that from the net profit achieved in the current year, a sports company must be at least 70% reinvested in sport. Another important paper is that the proposal prevents the use of sports forms for profit, not sports. So legal and natural persons who do not participate in sports competitions and whose main activity is to provide services to third parties, therefore, sports training and training of third parties, and not members, can only be established in the form of an economic society and cannot have the term "club" or the word "union". Furthermore, the paper introduced by the proposal in relation to the applicable law is also a change of the registration authority. The responsibility for the registration of sports organisations from the Ministry of Youth and Sports moves on to the Agency for Economic Registers. The proposal, of course, recognises other forms of organisation of sports organisations, such as companies, sports associations and city sports associations, etc., with the affirmation of the autonomy of sports organisations in internal relations. One of the most important newspapers in this law is to define the general interest in the field of sports in a precise way, at all levels, at the republican, rural and local level, as well as to create a transparent system of funding sports from the budget. A programming calendar has been introduced and is consistent with the budget calendar. Furthermore, the proposal created the basis for the adoption and implementation of a long-term strategy for sports development in the Republic of Serbia. In view of the fact that school sport and its development are conditions for preserving the nation's health primarily, and then quality and successful sport in one country, the proposal is much more detailed and deals with the issue of school sport than the applicable law. The primary goal is to develop and improve school sport and establish a more efficient system of school sports competitions. In this regard, the proposal proposes that the school hall, school grounds, etc. be used in addition to setting stricter conditions for the use of sports facilities and their maintenance in schools. has the position of a sports facility, limiting the possibility of using school halls only after the realization of school and extracurricular activities. Also, the proposal sets out a much more detailed definition of the framework for the organisation of sports competitions, especially international sports competitions, large competitions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To coordinate activities to prevent violence and misbehavior at sports events, the proposal forms a national council to fight violence and misbehave at sports events. For more professional implementation of the objectives set out in the strategy and improvements in sport in general, sport advice is also established. In order to improve the quality of the work of sports organisations and to prevent the abuses that practice today, unfortunately, knows, the proposal improves the existing administrative supervision of the work of sports organisations and introduces the so-called. professional surveillance, on the other hand. One of the newspapers, or more specifically the necessity, dictated by today, is privatisation in sports. In law making, the greatest interest in the sport public has raised this particular issue. For more investment to be possible, it is necessary to finally resolve the issue of social property in sports organisations and the share of state property, which has not been done since 1996. It is necessary to finally and clearly appoint a titlemaker in order to start more extensive investments in sport. In addition, sports organisations are established and operate in the form of an association, so that the automatic application of the existing Privatisation Act is not possible. The ministry's key role in drafting the proposal was to protect the existence of sports organisations. It was striking during a public debate that sometimes there was a fear of so-called. privatization in sports. This fear is, to a lesser extent, common fear of change, and to a greater extent, due to insufficient information on the definitions of law, but there is no real basis for fear. First, because privatisation is not mandatory. This law does not force anyone, nor commits to privatisation, but only gives that possibility to those who possibly want it. Secondly, fear is unfounded because sports facilities remain state-owned and there will be no sale of halls and stadiums. He won't be able to make no apartments or shopping centers instead of stadiums, because it's practically preventing the change of purpose of the facility. Who's interested in real estate, go to the real estate market, and who's interested in investing in sports, is welcome to do so. Those cases where sports infrastructure is not a majority social or state property and are not subject to this law, because private property remains private. Taking into account all of the above and making a parallel between the applicable Sport and Law Act, it is clear that, as in all other segments of life and sport, little remains the same in relation to 1996 and that, in much of the applicable Sport Act does not follow the needs of today, and therefore, it is necessary to bring a new one. In sports we most often see the end, we see details, we see winners, flags and playing anthem, but the idea and goal of this law that is before us today is to try to, as we have already done to the strategy of sports development, to support the creation of a system in which everyone, from local communities and schools, students and adults, will know their place in sport and in which sport will become a well-organised and organized activity for the benefit of the entire community. The goal is that successes in sports are not just the result of individual enthusiasm. Enthusiasm, of course, is an honor, it is beyond need and without it there is no progress, but successes must rest on the system, in addition to enthusiasm. As you know, there was a possibility that at the end of last year I could put the law on an emergency session of the Assembly. Although there is a reasonable motive for the new law to be passed as soon as possible, I did not manage that logic. This is a system law, there are a lot of important newspapers we want to meet as many MPs as possible, and that is as detailed as possible. So I decided to keep the proposal in regular procedure, and I wasn't wrong. Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs for the amendments they have tabled. For us this means that this legislative body has actively participated in improving the text and helped to improve the law. I thank the entire Assembly Committee on Youth and Sports, which is an extremely active committee, with which we have, and we will have fruitful co-operation and, I can say, a real partnership for the welfare of youth and sports throughout society. I especially thank those parliamentary clubs that accepted the ministry's offer to meet before this debate and discuss the law in detail. I also thank all the other parliamentary clubs that are in the spirit of best intention that this system law has full application have contributed to its better understanding in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50954	I thank the minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Youth and Sports Committee, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. I give my word to the People's MP, Djorđa Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50955	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an extremely important legislative proposal ahead of us. I would like to say that we within the SPS - JS Parliament Club can agree to an analysis of the application of the 1996 Sport Act, we can agree on a finding when it comes to the problems facing organisations today, which the public authorities in the field of sport face today by applying the 1996 Law. Of course, such findings impose what you yourself have said, Madam Minister, in the opening statement, so it is quite clear that we need a new, quality law that will regulate the field of sports in Serbia. So we need a system law that will go into step with time and that will allow what needs to be our primary goal at this point, which is to improve sports in Serbia. When it comes to this bill, it is true that it is a large legal proposal. This can be determined if we compare this legal proposal to the laws governing this matter in the countries of our region or some European countries, but I don't think it's essential at this point and that it's some kind of parameter based on which to judge whether a law is quality or not. At the very beginning, I want to make one conclusion and ask one question. Among other things, in your opening statement, it was said that a broad public debate was being held over this legislative proposal. We at the SPS - JS Parliament Club believe that this is extremely important, that it is important to conduct a wide public debate on every system law. And it seems to me that this legal proposal was also attended by a working group. My question is, who did the task force that was working on this bill? Did the large clubs, which today generally express disdain in public when it comes to this bill, have their representatives in this task force? How often did the task force meet? Did the task force have a chance to consider the final version of this bill? How much are the suggestions and suggestions from the representatives of the task force and the representatives of the sports organisations, the associations of clubs that participated in the public debate that you were talking about? Of course, we don't question the Ministry's intention and we don't want to deal with politics, political demagogy, because it's a particular sport, and I think in that context we all have a clear goal, which is to get as much quality of the law as possible. I have to say that there are a lot of open questions in the public, a lot of questions are asked when it comes to this bill. We really want to believe that after this debate today, after the debate in the details that will take place next week, we will be able to remove all the ambiguities, all the misunderstandings that exist today when it comes to the proposal for a law on sport. For us, the essential question at this point is whether the solutions offered by this legislative proposal are in line with international legal acts, are they in line with European practice and do you think that all the provisions of this legislative proposal are currently possible to implement, or implement in practice today in Serbia? The particularly controversial issue today is the issue of the privatisation process. You said something about it in the opening statement. I have to realize that it seems to me to be a particularly controversial issue of privatising football clubs, because that privatisation is most expected in the public. A few questions have occupied the public's attention at this point, and I think it is important that we get answers to these questions again today. I'll try to formulate them. So does this proposal, through the transformation and change of status, violate constitutional provisions of association? It's something that's been said about the past few days in public. Will the state's right to use the land that has sports organisations, which have sports clubs, be considered state or social capital in them? It is not a disputed property over land, but it would mean that all private houses located on city building land and have a permanent right to use (and to be paid for permanent use) are part of state property. Is it possible for a sports association that owns a building built on land in state property to acquire on that land, instead of a permanent right of use, the right to property, with the compensation of the market value of building land for several years of war? When we talk about sports associations, we should keep in mind that it's about, I'd say, non-profit organisations. Also, when it comes to the privatisation process, I'd like to make some suggestions and suggestions. First of all, I would like to say that the MP club SPS - JS has submitted an amendment relating to the fact that if any sports object is declared an object of national importance, then we believe that such sport value should be preserved. We've amended ourselves to prevent any possibility of such objects being dislocated or torn down to build some high commercial objects, or to change their purpose. Also, this legislative proposal provides that three entities can initiate the privatisation process. The SPS-JS MP club believes it should not be the one who will be able to initiate the privatisation process, because we think it will leave a lot of room for possible manipulations. I know, you're going to say what we said to each other at the Sports Committee and at a meeting within the Parliament club, that it's a practice of the Privatisation Agency, but I'm going to tell you again that this practice has an extremely bad experience and that we want these experiences to be avoided as much as possible when it comes to sports. When it comes to the funds generated from the sale of the capital of the privatisation entity, it cannot (so defined in the law) but, in our opinion, must be directed into the budget fund for the financing of sports, for the construction and reconstruction of sport infrastructure, or sports facilities. Using the word "can" we leave this proposal an alternative that it does not have to. We believe it must, because everything else would seem to be harmful to the development of sports in Serbia. Also, a few of my colleagues pointed out to me, there is one, according to my personal view and seeing the MPs' club, indifference when it comes to members of 169 and 190 of the bill. According to Article 169, all sports organisations, sports associations, sports associations and sports centres are registered in the relevant register in the territory of the Republic of Serbia on the date of entry into force of this law, and are obliged to submit applications for registration within a year of the entry into force of this law, etc. Article 190 states that the government will make a decision under Article 1 190 within a month of the date of entry into force. There's a certain contradiction here. How will the government make a decision a month after the date of entry into force if someone submits a report on the 364th day of the year? One more sentence when it comes to the privatisation process. In particular, given the importance of this process, bearing in mind the importance, complexity, problems, a number of open issues, we have proposed an amendment that says that the provisions of Articles 174 to 192, hence the provisions relating to the privatisation process, apply from 1 January 2013, deeming it necessary for a period of adjustment of acts, for the implementation of this law, for its application in practice and for all other actions, in order to take place in the privatisation process itself. Today is a key issue in public, I'd say, who will be the owner of the Red Star Stadium, who will be the owner of Partizan Stadium. It is an important question, but this law is expected to answer the question of system-based sports financing, and when it comes to professional, amateur clubs and basic sports in younger categories. Support to clubs that represent the base for top sports, but also in the construction of sports facilities, in the construction of sports infrastructure, that is something that is really necessary at this point and which is a priority. Our celebrated water polo team, for example, had to take credit to participate in a big competition. The old Yugoslavia, and now Serbia, once had the world's best handball player of all time, who led the women's handball team of Yugoslavia, Svetlana Kitic, and today the question is whether the women's handball championship in Serbia will be brought to an end, not because there is no one to play handball, but because there is no means for clubs to finance. So, the city I come from has a pretty good water polo club, it has a pretty good swimming club, but it has to travel a hundred miles from Valev to train. We have as a local self-government and a closed-pool project and a Valjev Hall of Sports project, but somehow we seem to be on the verge of an event when it comes to investment and investing in sports infrastructure. So, it's, unfortunately, at this point the reality and these are for me the essential questions. The general interest in sports is part of the law to provide answers, in my personal view, to two essential issues: what is considered to be a general interest in sports for Serbia, autonomous provinces and local self-government units, and how is the choice of a programme to be financed? This is a priority for us and a primary question, which deserves, I think, much more attention than the theoretical definition of certain concepts in the field of sport. Somehow, the 1996 Law, for example, had a quite correct definition and quite correctly defined the meaning of the word sport, and we do not see that some theoretical analysis of the concepts in the field of sport at this point would improve the ambience and atmosphere when it comes to sports in Serbia. For us, for example, it is far more important to create a legal opportunity to fund the participation of clubs in European club competitions from the republican or regional budget. It is possible, for example, that the local self-government unit has no option for such funding, which is of general interest to sports in Serbia. For us, I must admit, far more important and school sport, which is defined in this law in Articles 143, 144, then, sports competitions of people with disabilities, but also sports in the military and sports in the police, which had to be part of this system law. Finally, I would like to say that the MP club SPS - JS has submitted a number of amendments aimed at correcting the legislative proposal, so that we have as high-quality system law, which will regulate this extremely important area in Serbia, which will define both the rights and obligations of the entities in sport, organisational forms, which will protect and athletes, as you said, and sports clubs. So, you need records, you need control; of course the state needs to know how the funds that are invested in sports clubs are spent, but, on the other hand, the central issue has to be the financing of sports and the creation of an environment in which the economy in a particular way will be encouraged to invest in sport. So this law should clearly say, in our opinion, what is the public interest when it comes to sports in Serbia and how this public interest is preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50956	Thank you. I give my word to the MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50957	Dear Madam President, dear Madam Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, when we were preparing an analysis and criticism of the Law on Sports, a lot of questions were not only imposed on us by the text of the Bills and the procedure for writing and adopting it, but also on the general state of society. Today, parliament is discussing an important, basic law, which after who knows how many years, from, I'm sure, quite unwarranted reasons for so much waiting, comes to the agenda. We are now starting this important topic in the shadow of the government crisis and its barren reconstruction, which we certainly know will not bring any significant improvement. Instead of being our main topic on the agenda, the topic will be the calculations around the government that do not answer the question of what the profits are from the tow job. The illustration – we combine some ministries that may be incompatible, in the savings and rationalisation service, and we still need a ministry without portfolios. But it's just the tip of the iceberg of this problem we have. Now I would return to the very essence of what imposes on us the agenda. Why is there only now a debate about the Sports Act? It is a question for both governments, Vojislav Kostunica, as well as for the current government. Here, again to mention the towers, not just now, but in recent years, we've been given an explanation that it's a very sensitive subject and a very sensitive area. Due to such an explanation of all those responsible for this, we have been informed of the bad conditions in sport through Insider and similar TV shows and shy hints in written media about what kind of anomalies and crime is behind the hills when such topics are opened. Now I would refer to the law itself. The Minister's pledoies were full of general places and clichés, and we heard very little about the metrics of the most sensitive questions. We have before us one bill of law filled with bad, and unorthodox and inapplicable provisions. The quality of one law, among other things, distinguishes the way it is adopted, the proportion of its contents and its volume and its content itself. In my opinion, the law is bad for all three criteria. First, the way the law was written and put into practice. The question for law writers and the government that proposed it – were there real public debates and were they consulted by leading authorities in the country in the field of sports law? The answer is no. Where's the evidence for that? Some of the above-mentioned authorities are my colleagues, law professors. I know for a fact they haven't been consulted. Are sports alliances properly consulted? No, and I know it with confidence, I know it as the president of the XSA arbitration court. No one called me for a consult. Who has the right to skip, for example, the basketball union of Serbia as the alliance of our most professional sport? We obviously don't have an answer to that question. Then, the proportion of the volume of the law and its contents. This law has 194 members and also contains provisions compiled from other laws. The question is, are all these provisions placed in the right place? How is this matter regulated in the environment? The Law on Sports of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2006, contains 102 members. The 2004 Montenegrin Sports Act has 74 members, the Slovenian Sport Act has 73. How is this regulated in the countries of the European Union? The Spanish law has 88 members, the laws of the Baltic countries from 22 to 53. It is similar in the neighbourhood, Bulgaria and Romania. Now, to make sure that the lamentation of the law doesn't lead us into malice, let's see what the measure of the law itself says. Is the contents of this legal text justifying its scope? It is only here that we come to inconsistencies, gaps and some bad solutions, and the question is, can this text of the law be improved, or can the amendment be corrected? First, an appeal to law writers: if you can't interpret your role models from European laws, then rewrite them, it's easier and more effective. When I say this, I mean the 1992 European Sports Charter, which is the basic document of the Council of Europe in the field of sports policy management. Article 2 The charter is defined by the meaning of the word sport, far clearer than our confusing and undefined compilation. And worst of all, this first remark of mine seems to be just the tip of the iceberg. The LDP parliamentary group has submitted nine amendments. We were able to endure much more, but we are exactly what is the essence and what is flagrantly inapplicable to try to fix these amendments. Speaking of metrics, I'm just going to give you a few illustrations. We'll give other illustrations when we comment on the amendments. For example, as regards Article 3 of his attitude 3, the question arises – how many ministry employees are expert in bringing some courts? Is it possible that giving an expert opinion should be awarded to the Sports Alliance of Serbia, as a sports organisation that gathers border sports alliances from all sports branches and all sports disciplines in the Republic of Serbia? Or a whole set of members involved in property transformation and property relations. Some questions I wanted to ask were asked by fellow Milicevic, so I will save myself and all the time present. I won't repeat what he asked, some questions are in place. Or, for example, illustration - Article 90. And that's what we've been trying to do with the amendment. It's about a kind of nationalisation of sports organisations. This is a solution in which the government would determine representatives of state or social capital in sports organisations and thus have an active participation in the management of these organisations, which is contrary to the principle of autonomy of the work of sport movement and sports organisations and the principles declared in the Council of Europe documents and the general legal acts of the most important international NGOs. You just mentioned Michelle Platini and his suggestions. It is enough to look at the UEFA Statute and its Article 7 and Article 5, which give me the right. In the end, I would refer to Article 22. As a law professor, I'd say -- if it wasn't sad, it'd be funny. Article 22 states: "Sportists are obliged to participate in the preparation and performances of national sports teams. “ I can’t believe this standard exists. Actually, let me ask you something, did you have any serious lawyers on the team who wrote this bill? How can disposition in one norm be imperative without being sanctioned for it? How do you imagine what is written in Article 22? On the other hand, some basic human rights are being violated by these members. Well, who's the one who can get someone to participate in the national team? Em, you have a disposition that is unsustainable, and you don't have a sanction for it, you're violating human rights with this member. I really don't understand why a member like this was even put into this law. To finish my opening presentation, I'll go back to what I said, I'll go back to the criteria I was talking about – by all three criteria, we have bad legal solutions ahead of us. We will insist on our amendments, because we think it's the only way to get as much serious access to one of these serious issues as possible and to solve these problems in such a serious way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50958	Twelve minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from National MP Borislav Pelevic, authorised representative of the Group of MPs, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50959	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, the respected representatives of the ministry, the respected citizens of Serbia, the adoption of the law on sports is very important for each country, given that it is a matter of matter concerning both our children and our youth, especially all those who are involved in sports. For ten years, it's been about adopting a new law. Otherwise, the old man was adopted 15 years ago in 1996. There were several drafts and a proposal for a new law. But only now, this is the third time in a row for the Sport Law to be in front of MPs. The task force, composed of sports experts, claims, at least most of them, that they were not consulted and that their objections and suggestions were not respected. Since I've been in touch with many of them, it's about sports experts, and since I'm a sports worker myself, I have no reason not to trust them. They claim that everything happened beyond them and that decisive, important solutions were made by officials of the Ministry of Sports, who are not too competent to decide on the adoption and writing of the law on sport. The proposal for a law on sports has many disadvantages. The SNS parliamentary group has submitted as many as 98 amendments, in order to improve this sport law, but it is certain that even so much amendment cannot contribute to the adoption of a better, improved sport law. I am quite sure that our proposal is to withdraw the law from the procedure and to bring a new draft, a new draft of the law with the consent of the distinguished sports experts... I know it's not real, I don't have any illusions about it, but if the law is passed, and you have the necessary majority in the Assembly, it will certainly be repaired, or a new law on amendments and amendments to the law will be passed after a year, a year and a half at the latest, as is the case with the Construction and Planning Act, which was passed a year and a half ago, and it was discussed again last week, of as many as 90 members of that law that were proposed for an amendment and addition. We don't need that. We don't need another unserious sport law, which will certainly be changed. But if that's what you decide, so be it. This law is too large, it's already been said, it has 194 members. Not to mention how many European laws are, indeed, much less, from 40 to 80 members maximum, but just to give examples from the environment: let's say, Bulgaria - 75 members. Bulgaria is indeed an eminent sports force. Not to mention the countries of the former SFRY, let's say: Slovenia 73, Montenegro 74, Croatia 75 members of the law. Our law - as many as 194 members! That's why I think it's too big. It was as if someone was trying to cover up some real non-sports intentions in such a mass of members, which are certainly represented in sport. The proposal for a law on sport also includes many members who match members of other laws that have already been adopted, such as the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Associations, the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. In some members, this bill is even contrary to those laws. Lawmakers could simply give instructions to members of these laws, not repeat them in this bill. What's unacceptable on the scientific side is that the law deals with defining concepts, especially in Article 3 where they try to define certain concepts in sport. Defining concepts in sport is very difficult, because in the scientific theory of sport there are many different definitions, depending on the theorists, scientists in the field of sport. That's why it's not good for us to get into some academic discussion about it. This law in this first part is more personal to some academic work, scientific work on sports, than to a practical law that has a clear application. Thus, the definition of the sport of the Council of Europe is misspelled, when it comes to the definition of sports activities, where the virtually incorrect definition of the Sports Charter of the Council of Europe is interpreted. Here, simply, the words "sports activity" are brought instead of "sports" in the Sports Charter, because only sport is not defined by this law. It is not good for sport activity to be defined as physical and mental activity when the Sports Charter of the Council of Europe defines sport as physical activity. Of course mind activity is meant in all sports, because without mind activity you cannot engage in any sport. I guess this is where it was meant to be chess that way and how it's represented in these definitions of sports. Also, for example, the definition of "sport for all" is not well conveyed. Sports for everything is not a recreational sport, as you state in the bill. Sports for everything has a much wider definition, it includes competitions, because it's one branch of the Olympic movement. Recreative sport deals exclusively with improving and maintaining the physical and spiritual state of man. So, I think it's unnecessary, wrong to define the concept of sport. That would be completely wrong and unnecessary. In addition, this law burdens the work of clubs and the work of alliances with unnecessary administration. We already have records of sports alliances, sports clubs at the Ministry of Sports, and I don't understand why this bill imposes such an administration of clubs, which really burdens the work of clubs, but not just work, but also financial burdens them. I've calculated that there will be over a million documents to be processed. The Ministry should therefore establish a special service, which will deal only with administration, i.e. the deployment and registration of these documents and contributions that clubs and alliances are obliged to deliver. As far as this recording is concerned, the writers of this law are moving on. In Article 188, they undertake clubs and alliances to reregister, under the threat of liquidation and confiscation of assets, contrary to Articles 55, 58. 197. A constitution that prescribes that associations, clubs and alliances can only be banned by the Constitutional Court and by no means by the Ministry of Sports. Clubs and alliances have already been registered and registered with the Ministry of Sports, so let the Ministry, according to this, deliver their data to newly established registers and the Agency for Economic Registers, not to threaten clubs with liquidation and confiscation of property, which is an anti-constitutional category. It is particularly problematic to mix the Ministry of Sports in determining the rules of sports alliances and clubs. All sports alliances, city alliances, football alliances, basketball alliances, tennis alliances, karate alliances must abide by the rule of international federations and there is no place for the ministry to interfere with rules. This law prescribes the rules contrary to the rules of international sports Federations, and this is not good, because we risk the work of alliances and clubs being sanctioned by international sports federations that have clearly established rules. Any alliance, when it regulates its rules, must first and foremost comply with the rules of the international Federation to which it belongs; otherwise, it does not have the right to perform in international competitions. That's very clear. A bad example of the involvement of the Ministry of Sports in the sports rules of the Alliance is regulation where professionals can participate and where amateurs can participate. This is really not good, because it cannot be determined by law, or the bill (Article 158), that professionals cannot participate in amateur competitions, i.e. one part can participate, one percent, and that amateurs cannot participate, and that professionals cannot absolutely participate in amateur competitions. That is the contrary to the decision of the International Olympic Committee. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) made it clear in 1992 that professionals can participate in amateur competitions, or Olympic games. Today, for example, you have that our Djokovic, our Jelena Jankovic, Ana Ivanovic participate in the Olympics, the Davis Cup and all other amateur competitions for Serbia's team. Under the bill of this law, they have no right to participate. Also, amateurs, say, table tennis have no right to participate in professional competitions. This is not good and this is contrary to the Statute and Regulation of the International tennis organisation and to the Statute and IOC Decision. I think it had to be taken care of when the draft was being worked out and when the bill was passed. Secondly, it must be clear to all of us that international federations and IOCs do not allow State and politics to interfere in sport. The state can't make the rules. The rules are made by sports alliances and must comply with the IOC rules and the international Federation to which the border alliance is spoken. It is also proof that the state is overly mixed with this bill in the work of clubs to prescribe the level of membership that clubs can collect from their members. Please, the state directly determines what the price of membership will be in one club or in one alliance! When did this country interfere with the definition of the market, the prices of products and groceries? No, this isn't good. This is really the opposite, and we'll have problems if this law is passed. First, it won't be applicable, and secondly, we'll have problems with international sports Federations. There was talk here, and the Honorable Minister was talking about school sports. Of course, that's the basis for sports. You forgot to mention preschool sports. That's very important. It is very important to specify and mention preschool sport, because 39.2% of our children are in preschool institutions, where they absolutely have no conditions to deal with any kind of physical activity. Of course, not sports, because you can't talk about sports at that age. But we must not forget that 173,203 boys and girls visit preschool institutions. A total of 9,000 educators, 3,000 nurses and 400 associates work there, in a total of 1,670 preschool institutions. This information must not be forgotten because it is the basis of school sport, which is the basis of sport at all. There are words about school sports; one provision, one title speaks of it, however, not quite enough. It is forgotten that only 15% of children currently participate in sports school competitions. Schools mostly have ruined sports halls or many don't have them at all. Less than two hours a week, about, has physical classes in schools, which is not enough. That should improve. In addition, what are the consequences of such physical, not education, but physical work as regards physical education in schools? The consequences are terrible: 25% of our children suffer from obesity, which often lasts for life. Even 80-90% of children have spinal deformity, and 60% of children have flat soles. All of this can be improved by better work in school sport, which the bill had to be slightly different and more detailed to define. I know this is about meddling in the intelligence of another ministry, the Ministry of Education, but that's what you had to have close contact with them and make this department of school and student sports better arranged and arranged for them. It is also about ignoring higher education institutions in the field of sports in this bill. You know that rules have been made in the Ministry for a long time, and that rule on the nomenclature of sports professions and callings and rules on the right to professional work in sport, however, this has never been passed. I suppose it's about the interests of some clubs that want to completely ignore the work of higher education institutions in the field of sports, and that all the guidance on the education of professional staff takes over exclusively sports alliances, which is not good, because then why do we have sports universities, what high school for sport? I don't think that's good. The adoption of these regulations, as mandatory sublegal acts, would systematically regulate the most important areas in sport, which are: calls, the right to professional work and obtaining a license, namely to define exactly who can do everything in sports education. Unless these rules are adopted, it is not possible to systematically edit this area of sport, but rather to maintain the existing situation, which is now left to free interpretation in most cases and often unprofessional work by our experts who educate our athletes and who work with them. So we have under-educated experts in clubs and sports alliances. If the rules were passed, they wouldn't be able to find places in sports clubs if they didn't end up with a weekly or two-week course. That's not good. There must be harmony between working in higher education institutions in the field of sport and border alliances, in order to reach educated experts, who would indeed produce much better athletes than we have now in all border alliances, and especially in those alliances that are interesting to the public, such as football, basketball, tennis, etc. What is particularly painful for sports experts, sports workers and athletes in non-Olympic sports is that this law makes a terribly deep parallel between Olympic and non-Olympic sports. You have here in Article 123 attitudes that truly underestimate neo-Olympic sports and all those who work in them, especially athletes and coaches. You make the decision, you propose this bill to give pensions, i.e. life-long benefits to those who won medals at the Olympics, Paralympics, the Shah Olympics and the World European Championships in Olympic and Paralympic Sports. As soon as they're 40, they have life pensions. I welcome that. There are no neo-Olympic athletes here. And I can agree with that. I fully agree that we need to make a parallel between Olympic and Neolimpic sports, but you're still going. In the following attitude, you say that athletes and coaches who win medals in all these sports, but only in Olympic and Paralympic, have the right to a one-time, or multiple cash fee. There are no Neolimpic sports anywhere. Only in one member do you mention that the government can make its decision on cash prizes and sportsmen from non-Olympic sports, but that's not enough. This is not clearly precise and it is not enough, because this bill makes these young people completely discriminated against. Remember, last year the karate team won first place in the world, teamed up, at the World Cup in Belgrade. They won three more gold medals. What's they gonna get out of it? Nothing, one year's fee, like a scholarship, that's all. Karate, to remind you, is the most massive sport in Serbia after football. There are over 50 other sports that are neolympic. We don't have too many Olympic sports in Serbia. What about these people who carry the glory of our country, bring medals, sometimes even more proudly hold our flag and sing our anthem stronger than some of the Olympic sports? Is this how they should be discriminated against? I don't think so. I don't want to talk about sports where I'm president of the alliance, but let the data from the Sports Union of Serbia talk about it. We are the most professional sport in Serbia, by the number of medals won, in competition from 150 countries. So what I'm saying is, when many young people, I've cited an example of karate, they train hard, they practice, they win medals, and they get a law where their work, effort and sweat will be underestimated, it's not good. Please respect the amendments submitted by the SNS parliamentary group; not in this section when it comes to pensions, we are aware that as non-Olympic sports we will never come to order, but in this part where monetary fees are determined, that you will also include non-Olympic sports, otherwise they will no longer exist. I don't think any of you have been the goal of shutting down these clubs, shutting down those sports, and there's only Olympic sports. What do you want with the youth population that's been practicing in the Neolimpic sports? Secondly, I just wanted to point out something that's very important, where you've gotten into one part of the rules of sports alliances, where you haven't mentioned things at all, but since I'm running out of time as an authorised representative, I'm going to talk about it in the second part of the presentation, in the debate in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50960	Thank you. The word is by MP Simo Vukovic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50961	Dear Mrs Samardzic Markovic, the President-in-Office, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about this sport law, of course it's hard to avoid saying something about sport itself as an act of activity. It seems to me the Honorable Madam Minister was talking about it. Of course it's one of the most important actions in our lives. In general, sport as a human activity has been accompanied by probably human civilization since its origin. It is certain that sport unites in itself many virtues and values, and that is why we often have an emotional and sometimes irrational relationship with it. Of course, with the technological revolution and the promotion of communication sport has become one of the global phenomena, which and how it connects people and gets more and more into importance. When we know that all these facts are difficult for a society and state to allow such an area of human life and activity to be legally inadequately arranged or even to be ruled by a confusion that, in fact, as a result, has serious problems that shake up society as a whole. Serbia, as pointed out in the explanation, and some of the previous speakers pointed out, has the 1996 Law, which in some segments had a good solution, however, from this time distance, it has been overcome in many things, and on the other hand, cannot meet the needs, especially of a transition society, which is changing very quickly and which is required to adapt to the current needs that exist in the field of sport. What is also very important, related to the adoption of this law, is one long-standing, in many segments of barren, discussion about law-making. There's a principled, declarative relationship that we have to, we want to pass the law, but no one can do it. I want to take the opportunity, not because it's the ministry for which my party has taken responsibility, but simply to congratulate the Ministry and the Resort Minister for having even come to the final stage of the adoption of the law on sport. On the other hand, it seems to me that, in addition to the adoption of the Sport Development Strategy by 2013, the Youth and Sports Ministry is rounding up, at least in terms of sports, a huge job, which may not be recognized in the general public as a job that will certainly have long-term good effects, but it may be a cross that has to be worn, for people of value. I would like to point out that in the process of public debate on this legislative proposal, which began in early 2009, this law is absolutely in the shadow of the debate on privatisation in sport, which represents one of the smaller segments of this law. It is quite clear, throughout the discussion during the public debate and during the plenary session, and already through some discussions it is seen, that this tone that follows the law on sport and imposing privatisation as a key topic is forced by several stakeholders, where it is completely ignored what should actually be strategic goals in sport, which are the health of our population and all that are the liquids and values that sport carries with it. That's why I want to point out in my discussion what apparently very few people will point out, and what this legal proposal carries with it. It is, above all, to finally define what the system of sports does and who the participants are in that system, so, athletes, sports experts, sports facilities, sports alliances. Of course there have to be appropriate definitions, it's not a theory, it's a letter of law and it's like that has to exist. What is particularly important is that this law regulates the rights of athletes so far neglected. The athletes, whether they had amateur or professional status, were often victims of machinations, abuse by administrations of different clubs or alliances, in terms of failure to meet the obligations arising from the contract. This law offers an ambience for athletes, in any status, to feel safer. I must say that the law has installed a special section relating to the health of athletes and the obligation for athletes to periodically (listed for six months) to establish general health skills, and with special sports or before the competition itself, it must be done more often and more often. This ensures that we no longer witness those tragic scenes on sports grounds, where many remember the responsibility that should be borne by executive authority, not sports organisations, which should worry about the health of athletes. Also, this law prevents athletes who are found under certain injuries or their health conditions from coercing at any cost, and for profit, to participate in certain competitions and thus permanently or temporarily disabling to engage in sports. This law also imposes obligations on sports organisations, especially when it comes to professionals, to ensure that they are secured in the event of permanent injuries, but also, God forbid, in the event of death. Furthermore, what are the values of this bill is that it is a regulated area of professional work in sport. Professional work in sports, as in other activities, can bring positive effects. If, as experts, they represent people with half-knowledge or ignorance, it sometimes leaves tragic consequences. This law obliges sports organisations to have qualified, highly educated experts or those who have spent at least 25 years in the same profession, to be engaged formally and practically in sports organisations themselves. On the other hand, the law insists on what institutions may be involved in training sports professionals, whether they are high educational institutions, alliances or other sports institutions, but in this area we will have order and we will have an accurate overview of the people involved in sports as a profession in the sports system in Serbia. What was one of the more delicate issues, which we will discuss during the debate, is the status of the sports organisations themselves, often trivially we say - clubs, which have mostly had the status of citizens' associations so far. They were registered under an old law of the 1990s, which practically meant registration, and it was about the Law on Social Organisations and Citizens' Associations. In this way, clubs were mostly registered as ordinary NGOs, without special responsibilities and definitions for the practice of sport itself. This law stipulates that this status must be changed and that we will now have the form of sports associations or sports associations, depending on how the sports organisations themselves have been identified. What does that really mean? Does this mean that through that administrative transformation we'll find out what we actually have on the ground? You have information that there are some 6,000 clubs, that records exist at the Department of Sports. Through the procedure of a single record for all these associations we will have a review of the status and all of what is happening within these organizations. The law takes particular care that these sports associations, which will form the transformation, although by definition they are non-profitable, non-profit associations, because they are aimed at achieving sport objectives, are not bound by hands and can, in fact, through donations, memberships and other economic activities, acquire funds, which are also put forward for the purpose of achieving sport goals. Even these sports companies are obliged to place at least 70% of their revenues to achieve their sport goals. Also, a category of people who are individually involved in sports has been formulated, so that they can be in the form of independent entrepreneurs. This is actually rounding up the status of athletes, which has been a little bit taken into account, and we have been overly declarative about them – it is behavior to just pat them on the shoulder without their legal status in our society and state so far being resolved. What I also want to point out is that in this field of organisation of sports associations, we finally have, through several members set up, a procedure in which the establishment is done, the choice of bodies representing the organisation. Why is this important? Because in Serbia right now, I can define it, there's one caste, one class so-called. sports workers, for which no one can define what their status is. Many organizations and alliances function in the fog, in the middle of the night, where we citizens can't see how the election process is actually going and who's choosing these people, and they've been sitting in these alliances and clubs for decades. I can quote something that is unknown to the general public, that the entire election process and membership records stem from the famous books of members. We'll see what the record process will show in how many clubs there are these members' books. And from the books of members of sports clubs you organize an electoral assembly, the selection of organs, etc., well, in the end, you determine responsibility for club management. So it is important to support this legislative proposal, because through the application of these members, order and procedure will be introduced, which are practically uniform for both clubs and alliances. It is also very important that the law, by regulating these procedures, clearly recognized another dimension in which sports clubs are present today, which is that in one part of the clubs the position of members, even the responsible persons within clubs, were taken up by people with criminal records, who were convicted of economic crime or other acts and who ultimately made decisions or did damage to those clubs, which is not known who was responsible. This law is practically forbidden, and it is explicitly stated in individual members; membership and responsible functions in the club cannot be performed by people of this profile. A special area, which is very important and seems to be the most burdensome sport today, is funding sports in Serbia. Sustainable financing should be ensured. It can't just, it's completely clear, function on budget fees. We need to open up a space for entering private capital into the system of sports. You have one vicious circle. Take any league you want, you don't have an audience on sports grounds, you don't have attractive sports, and no one wants to invest in it. On the other hand, clubs need money. That condition remains indecisive as it is. I think good solutions have been offered. On the other hand, through such a law, the ministry waives discretionary rights to decide on the allocation of funds, already in the most part the two largest organisations we have in the field of sport are the Sports Union of Serbia and the Olympic Committee. They will go through appropriate competitions and united demands to the ministry and participate in commissions that will approve funding to sports clubs in a completely public way, with public insight into almost every segment of the decision to allocate funds. That's very important. What you cannot, of course, skip, is a subject that "eats" this law in public, completely unfair, which is a ownership transformation. Without ownership transformation, which is not just about sports, we cannot implement the many reform processes that await us. The lack of clear titlemakers, as we can see, slows us down a lot in the area of infrastructure, energy, and health care, so it's also in the field of sport. It was brave of the promoter to tackle the solutions offered in this process. True, this law does not oblige privatisation. This law offers a concept, if it enters privatisation, to be the same for all entities participating in the privatisation process, whether they are in sport or not; therefore, they fall under the Privatisation Act. The third thing, those who enter the privatisation process will have a form of open stock society, which, I think, is currently the most desirable, most favourable form, because it will allow the wider interested population and citizens to participate in the purchase of actions and decision-making within their favorite clubs. I'm perfectly clear on the nervousness that comes along, and I have to re-absorb it, from several stakeholders. In order to enter the privatisation process, you have to apply to record your own assets in the next year, so we'll see what we have and what we find. I'll bet we'll be amazed what's been leased, how much property is mortgaged, who's been raising the loans. It seems to me that most of the anxiety comes from it. We will come to privatisation, and most of the work and the biggest result of this law will be the inventory of property. So that's why this law makes it good, which is why we, of course, will support it as a parliamentary group in the voting day. The fact is that through the amendment debate we will come up with certain, perhaps better, solutions, nuances of the law anyway, but it seems to me that in our time and the chairman once said – we should not suffer from normativeism. Is that right, Mrs. Comic? We can't expect this law to solve all the problems that have accumulated in sports for decades. Of course, there is no ideal form, but it is a good step so that we can build on this law in the future and that sport in Serbia, and I think that we all want it undivided in this room and in the general public, at the best possible level of the organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50962	Dear Members of Parliament, before we continue to work, a notice on the resignation of the MP: you have received the resignation of Sava Ciocic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office has ceased, and before the time of his election, MP Savi Cojcic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're continuing our work. The word is given by MP Aleksandar Pejcic, authorised representative of the DSS Group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50963	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers, the Government's representatives, we have long waited for this sport law. Honestly, like the predecessor, I have to congratulate you on this law, on courage. The fact is, there was a form, it was filled with form, but is the essence fulfilled? You had good intentions, but the road to that place was paved by good intentions. We don't think this law is good. That's why we from the Democratic Party of Serbia called it - the law against sports. I'll try to explain in my discussion why this law is against sports. I'll speak as a sports worker, as a man who spent his whole life in sports, was a federal player, a federal coach, a sports worker, and my profession is sports. So, as you yourself said, this draft law on sports has suffered several changes, and we've been waiting for it for ten years. Since this is a constitutional category, we expected this draft law on sports to give quality solutions to our athletes and sports in general. Is that so? I don't think that's the case. When this project began to be realized you formed a working group of experts and experts, who eventually distanced themselves from this concept that you offered us and didn't come to meetings. Simply, if they came out as experts and experts, my question is for you, and the password of your political options is "expert in front of politics", who wrote this law? Were they written by experts or by politicians? That's the first question we want you to answer. Also, it was said here that there was a public debate. The public debate was two years ago, but not about this draft law that we have today, but about a completely different bill. Many criticisms have been addressed in these public debates, and instead of learning from these criticisms, we today have a 193-member law, a conglomerate of bad ideas. The Republic of Serbia has an old Sport Act, which was passed in 1996, which has 88 members and which is much more rational than this law we now have. Yes, in this law we do not have a legal provision on privatisation, but this law did not even see the retail light of the day for one simple reason – because no sublegal acts and statutes related to this 1996 Sport Act were passed. This law is passed for another reason, because the Charter of the Council of Europe was adopted, a document based on the sports policy of all countries in Europe. It would be good to mention how they solved this problem. Thus, for example, Croatia has a 102-member law, which was passed in 2006, Montenegro has a law of 74 members, Slovenia of 73 members, Spain, the world power, which has helped you write this law, as you said, has a law of 88 members, Bulgaria 75 and Romania of 95 members. One logical question arises: will this sport law bring improvement to our athletes, to our sport at all? Will it provide a solution to how we will finance sports and how the state will treat athletes? Will the state create a quality environment so that Serbian athletes can make better results in future times? Because you'll agree with me, lately Serbian athletes don't produce quality results, individually, but in continuity we don't have any medals. Some officials say sports must share the values of society, as society is in transition. However, there are countries in the environment that also have the same fate as Serbia, and their athletes are getting better and better results. I want to show you through the Olympics how much our sport has fallen to the low branches. At the last Olympics, if the medals of former Yugoslav athletes were gathered, they would be between 7th and 9th; Serbian athletes participated in the previous Yugoslav teams with 50%, and Serbia took place between 62nd and 64th in the last Beijing Olympics. I don't think this is a success. It's a failure of Serbian sport. If you remember, the DSS youth asked you to resign after those Olympic games. Perhaps, Madam Minister, if you had resigned then, we would not now have such a disastrous law, which will bury Serbian sport. What I was about to say, and we talked about it up when you were in our Parliament club (I thank you for coming and visiting our Parliament club, because you are one of the few ministers who come to explain the laws), this law favors professional sports, and marginalizes other sports, such as amateur, school, recreational, militia, military and university sports. You have to understand one thing, for top-notch sports there must be a base, and the base is exactly this kind of sport that I was talking about. Some countries, like Russia, America, great sports forces, are growing these kinds of sports, because from these types of sports come Olympic winners, especially in martial arts. We marginalized these sports, put them only through form of public interest, social interest. We talked about the need to develop this matter in particular. School sport is mentioned here through two members, we talked about it here. Someone here also said, and I agree, that the relationship between the two ministries was supposed to give a better result. Our grudge was that school sport wasn't regulated in an adequate way. It has happened that disorderly medical and systematic examinations of children die in these sports competitions. That's what we said and I'm asking you to take that into account in future with the Ministry of Education and I think you'll do it in a good way. Recreative sport is also an important category. Since the Charter of Physical and Physical Education was adopted in 1978, in this context I would like to remind you that certain countries have legal solutions, legal provisions in their laws, related to recreational sport. Given that cardiovascular disease is escalating, I suppose that recreational sport should have a little more space in this legal solution. In Finland, 90% of citizens are engaged in sports, if we talk about EU countries. It's at least 40% in Portugal. When we look at how many people we are dealing with recreational sports or sports at all, you will see one thing – that 18% of our fathers are engaged, 13% of mothers, while grandparents are much less. When it comes to school sports, that's what I forgot to tell you, Madam Minister, by analyzing children and their problems most often arises that children in preschool and school age have deformities. In Serbia's territory, 76% of children who are not engaged in sports, from the school population, are deformities. When it comes to this law, the biggest stumbling block is just transforming clubs. That's where we from the DSS have the biggest grudge. In fact, you said yourself that this is some little lex specialis, that it's a transformation of social capital to the state. In fact, you impose on NGOs, because many clubs are NGOs, only two clubs are professionalized, and these are "Cukarian" and "Worker", without the decision of their assembly, because only they can change the legal structure of the club, you impose that they must register as companies or companies with special restrictions. In this way you create conditions for these clubs to be sold as businesses, factories, etc. We think that's how you violate Article 86. The constitution, which says exactly – is guaranteed private, cooperative and public property. That's the first attitude. That's where you had to take care of the Constitution, because there's a possibility that someone could appeal to the Constitutional Court and that this law would be annulled, precisely because it's anti-constitutional. I'm asking you, in what legal system is it possible that social property can be converted into state property? No legal system of any state knows that. When it comes to club financing, we also wanted to give you a suggestion, because the state got involved too much, so-called. State interventionism. That's what my colleagues were talking about. You small clubs determine that their members can pay 10% of the average personal income. I will give you an example of Leskovec, where local self-government for the entire sport has separated (and in the city we have over 140 clubs, Leskovac is the fifth city in Serbia, you have a state secretary from Leskovac) only 20 million. How will they finance themselves, and many of them have younger categories, they should pay judges, they should pay delegates? How will they finance themselves if they don't pay more than 10% of the membership fee? That's the question to be answered. We also notice asymmetric funding here, as the law says it can finance local self-government, autonomous province and the Republic of Serbia. Sportsmen from the Republic of Serbia are in an uninvited position, because Vojvodina athletes have a triple funding method and will have much more funding, which means that quality sport will go to Vojvodina. Given that we have given them certain rights to the statutes that we adopted, there is a possibility that during some subsequent period, the Vojvodina team will compete with better athletes than the Serbian national team, because it has enabled them to transfer competences and rights from sports. What we also have a grudge, it's the minister's discretionary right. There's too much discretion in this law. Instead of being the one who offers the laws, you will formulate it in a completely different way. The government is thus the generator of corruption. I'm not imputing this to you, there may be a new minister next day, I want to tell you that Serbia is 83rd by perception and recognition of corruption, and that these laws are just the generators of corruption. So, when the minister has a discretionary right to decide some things, it's a sign of corruptive action. I don't want to believe it's gonna happen right now, but I'm saying it's one of the assumptions. What is unclear to us is that we are entering privatisation, and the law on denationalisation and restitution has not been passed. There's a possibility that someone who lays a tap on a certain plot around the stadium might come forward. I know it's settled by other laws, but there's a possibility that he's looking for his property-legal relations, that he's looking for what's his. Dear friends, MPs, I also speak to you, but also to my fellow opposition and government colleagues, in the event of the adoption of such a law, and we think the law should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and completed, Serbia will not have any good athletes such as the Government of Divac, Dragan Stojkovic Pixi, but will be an average sports country. In order for such things not to happen, I ask all of you, as well as you, Minister, to withdraw this law, because it is good for Serbian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50964	It was used 15.45 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? National MP Sladjan Mijaljević, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50965	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, this address, Madam Minister, don't take it personally, but share my reaction with one part of the government, and share a little more with the other coalition partners. So the proposal for a law on sport has caused really serious reactions. For a reason, he also caused great interest, since he covers a large area of life for most of the population, in some directly, in some indirect ones, but there is no part of the population that does not touch. Many experts have responded, even some who wrote the first work version, and in the media very negatively assess this bill. As far as we're concerned, we're always trying to depoliticalize certain areas of life. Sports is one of them. For the past three years, we have had a really good cooperation with the Ministry of Sports and Youth through cooperation with the Assembly Committee on Sport and Youth. Of course, we believe that the Ministry has made a great deal of effort to draft this bill, but this bill is where we seriously differ. We've submitted nearly 60 amendments to this bill. We really could've done that much more. However, we chose to deal with the essence. It is a very important environment in which we have passed this law and in which it should function with certain provisions, therefore, the social and economic situation that has long ruled Serbia, under an exceptional (this is my opinion, and I think also parties) incapacitated and corrupt government of the DOS. I mean this “DOS” in various forms. In addition to incompetent authorities, there has been a lot of interlocking between various touch currents, of course, all to the detriment of Serbian citizens. Of course, over all that is the global economic crisis, as well as the domestic crisis that you've been creating for ten years. We may get out of this world, but it's hard to get out of this home. So it's an environment where we make laws and this sport law. According to us, this law is horny, unfinished, some parts are good, some are very weak, but the good ones are not in line with the situation that has existed in the country for twenty years and it has not been seen the end of it. So, as I said before, a very bad economic, social, political situation. The law, precisely because of inequality, is very difficult to understand. When you start to read it or like us MPs to work on it and see all its flaws and virtues, it just starts sucking you into yourself like some kind of whirlwind that doesn't see the end, so at some level you have to cut and stop there and process it to that level. This situation is precisely why, as it seems to us, and later through the debate and we received confirmation of what several stakeholders were doing, it was done by several expert groups. The first working group of domestic sports experts, which began drawing up the first draft a few years ago, you disbanded. Some experts from this first working group have become serious opponents to you on each of the following drafts. Then some foreign experts also helped you. All in all, these experts' attempts at gathering aren't in themselves bad, but their suggestions, according to us, aren't exactly the luckiest fit into this bill. One part as if they were sports enthusiasts, other sports lovers, third sports workers, and the fourth politicians. According to us, clubs lose autonomy, much bigger and unnecessary interference of the state in the work of clubs. There's also a person who's appointed by the government who walks into the board of directors of the club. I am immediately asked whether we are returning to some Soviet time, so we are getting some new commissioners, or if the Government gives you some money, then she's setting up some kind of supervisor? From this point of view, it looks to me like that supervisor is bringing in a silk gait, because without him, there's nothing more to be done in a club, or sold, or bought. Media reactions, including on assembly committees, were the most related to Star football clubs, Partizan and Vojvodina. Participants in the discussion very negatively interpreted the possible consequences of this bill according to our two or three leading clubs. If these sports experts, like the rest of the interested public, are concerned about big clubs, they have the right to do so. However, I am much more interested in the fate of other clubs, small clubs, clubs of so-called small sports, where athletes compete teamically and individually, and in these sports we achieve world results, we are world champions both individually and teamly. Our athletes in these "small" sports are world champions, both individually and teamly, both men and women, both in senior and younger categories. The parts of the law show disproportionateness: the part about Olympic sport has been widely processed, and it is simply amazing that the school sport in this bill is processed with only two members, and by counting and identifying the activities and the end, there is no improvement of the system. School and student competitions lead to the university, so school sport is not a naive thing. During their course, students practice in the school program, after teaching in extracurricular activities, most of them at their or some nearby school train in clubs that have rented appointments in school halls, large and small, in halls; shooters practice in libraries. This is an example I know, though, it's just an air rifle, an air gun. Dancers dance in the solemn halls, swordsmen train in the halls. In this part of the school sport, it could be long and wide, because what really plan and program do we have for school sport? Look, it's one course of physical education, where you learn about all sports, and the other is when you recognize good predisposition and talent in some kids, so they compete in three or four sports and perform for their school in those sports. As older, of course, the number of sports decreases, and the results and demands become much more serious, until they join the University team. What do we have? There's hardly anything going on in elementary school. In high school, even physical education is mainly done by those who are already seriously trained in some sport, others nothing. In college, she's completely out of physical activity. So who's competing at the universities for our team? It's those students who practice in schools, libraries, halls and hallways in other sports clubs. We're coming back to that question: What do we have from school sports? We don't have anything, we don't have the basics, we don't have the system. To explain to the general public what some have, and we don't, I'm going to use the following examples, let's say from your beloved America. What we don't have, and many other countries have is college sport through college league, so from college clubs basketball, rugby, wrestling, swimming goes to professionals, with a graduate college at a mature age. Do we in Serbia have any serious student leagues in some sport? It's that way in the west, and it's the same in the east. Why, for example, do the Japanese start systematically to train judo at the age of four or five in kindergarten, so in elementary school they have a regular subject of physical education and a regular subject of judo? Because they have a system. The system of organized training and competition has never come to life with us. Who knows if he'll ever come back to life. You, through this bill of law, are also predicting a sports supervisor and a sports inspector. What does their job description say? To get those with an air rifle kicked out of the library and those with swords kicked out of the hallway from the third floor of some elementary school? Do you think they're trained in libraries and not shooting? Or in the halls of the school, and not in the fencing courts with an adequate soft base, not concrete? Why does it work like that? Because our clubs are poor, because our coaches are underpaid, because there is no sponsorship system. Not everything from the budget can be sponsored, I underline – not everything from the budget can be sponsored, state or regional budget, not everything can be financed. We need a more serious sponsorship system. Our athletes are paying themselves to travel to competitions and preparation, clubs, to defend the title of European champion, to raise credit in the bank to pay their way to the European Championship! Nonsens. That's why there are gray and black money flows between the economy and sports, of course. My colleagues will talk more about it in principle and you'll see what's been happening to us over the past 20 years. Of course, only a few people benefit from it. Those who shed tears, sweat, and blood have almost nothing but personal pleasure. Of course, with a number of exceptions, and again in great sports, or rich sports. But in order to get to the big club, to get into the first league, the vast majority of athletes have to go through small clubs, they have to get basic knowledge of sports right in these small clubs and, of course, they'll eventually become big and play in the first league. Our sports centres are in terrible shape, aside from the fact that they don't exist in smaller environments. The ones that exist haven't been invested in decades, buckets more with ceilings in clusters. I think that at the Pinky Sports Centre in Zemun, the buckets on the ceiling have been standing for the last 25 years. I'd like to know what they're going to do about sports inspector and sports inspector, because there's a risk that some bucket, half-full, of about five, six, ten kilograms, of a ceiling of seven-eight meters on the head of some trainer. When I mentioned these two new jobs in sports, sports supervisor and sports inspector, if I'm not mistaken, is this the state administration even a little bit wider and what are you going to pay them from? You don't have any money in your budget for these current budget users either. Or maybe they'll volunteer? I doubt it. Or have you come up with some new way to make money? Here's an example, almost amazing, of how some people in Serbia behave when the authorities get their hands on it. In the winter of Kopalnik, the directorial service, some of the Serbia Ski resorts escorted by police are harassing all those who seem to be teaching a person who is standing in the skis next to them. He's only punishing the showers. So no one has the right to choose who's going to train him, but has to go to a ski school that's got a license to work on the Copalnik. Of course, there must be order and law in the arranged ski resorts, and traffic order must be maintained, but there is no such arrangement as in Kopalnik on every mountain. Of course, these beginners who learn don't learn at the most difficult trails. What licensed instructors have trained during all these decades other skiers in Serbia? It didn't have to be so far, and from now on, it's got to be. A legitimate question arises – since when, from now on? Well, since when are the "Skids of Serbia" under the authority of the Ministry of Economy. In the privatisation part you predicted the following – clubs can be privatized, but they don't have to. However, you predicted there were three interested parties: clubs, interested customers and government. In a well-ordered state, one would say – excellently, many were given the choice to decide what they wanted. But we don't live in a well-organized state. After ten years of your rule and implementing the economy of destruction, when you mention someone in Serbia, the word "privatisation" for Serbian citizens immediately gets sick, because in Serbia the word "privatisation" has a different meaning, meaning – kidnap. Who would buy clubs in Serbia? Those who bought businesses, those who bought Luka Belgrade, those who bought Ustasha, those who made Rakovica an industrial cemetery? Only at the move of Luke Belgrade, from the first chimney of the cardboard factory in Adi Huja, to the last chimney of the heat in Dorcolo, has 15 factories closed, or will it be closed in the shortest time. Of course, mostly by some law, and the rest by certain fraud. Now we come to the issue of privatisation in sports. Who's going to protect some club that doesn't want to privatize from tycoon and co-workers in the government? Can anyone imagine defending a club or a small club that doesn't want to privatise itself when it couldn't defend ten factories in downtown Belgrade? And how to estimate the property of individual clubs? It'll have to clubs alone, a new cost. They prepare themselves, on their own cost, for their deaths, and then they appear “lovers of sport, ” read the tycoons, to see what can be done at a lower price, if they can be free. Example: How many different sports clubs are training at Star Stadium? Check this out, Star Stadium. It is a Star Stadium, but which club, from which sport, bearing the name Red Star? Football players use football fields, but are they the only ones who use football fields? Where are the athletes, for example? You don't think anyone was making track for football, do you? It's probably made because of athletics, and there's airfields and swimming pools with the sand to jump away, the troupe and the skydiving ground, with and without a pole. All of this doesn't need football players, but the football field needs athletes. Where do you think they can throw a spear, a disk, a hammer? Of course, athletes need stands. What do I mean? In law, you predicted that the new owner of a sports facility couldn't change his purpose, but to privatize, or sell Red Star Stadium, there must be several clubs, maybe 20, 30. Who has less or more stakes in that stadium? How many clubs have SD Red Star? In every sport that is being practiced here in Serbia, they have one club; on some list I've come to, they have 31 clubs. All of them invested in the Red Star Stadium or invested through them in the Red Star Stadium. Do you think they'll be able to meet the deadline to register under the new law? I think that's where the courts are going to work, to divide the brothers, and how fast our courts are, that's just a story to themselves. It had to go gradually, step by step. This is how you've created a very complicated situation, plus a situation in the state. How many other sports companies are there with 10 or 15 clubs training in one place? This, as in other places, is about money. All scattered transactions must be directed to the desired flows, and streams to certain registers, which control as few people as possible, and all that towards the Ministry of Economy. Our point is that you make a lot and a lot of sharp regulation, and you give a little. This money you've given athletes over the past three years – it's good, but through this boisterous and extensive bill you should have given system solutions for better conditions, for easier club existence, easier club life, for better funding, or sponsorship and school sport system. I mean, for us in Serbia, the citizens of the Serbian state are the biggest relaxation and dissipation of sport. We create world champions out of this care and relaxation, in almost impossible conditions. This or some other law on sports in Serbia must improve the conditions, better halls, gyms, terrains, sports centres, better sponsorship system, must bring people to practice, not to suppress them, to choke them with additional rules and inducements, to drive them out into the street, to the parking lots, to the schoolyards, cafes, cafes, bureaucrats, various bookshops, games, wrapped in clouds of tobacco smoke, and who knows what else, and what still seems to depend most on the ability and resourcefulness of local dealers. There's a lot of serious questions and few good answers. I think this law is going to be a very negative experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50966	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups coming forward to exercise their right in the session when the presidents, or authorised representatives, have the right to the word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the DSS MP Group, the LDP MP Group, the G17 Plus Group of MPs, the ZES Group of MPs, the Progressive Group of Serbia, the SRS Parliamentary Group. The first to be registered on the list of speakers, according to the application for a word in the principled search of the proposal for a law on sports, is MP Zoran Kasalovic, and after that, MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50967	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, respected representatives of the ministry, at the very beginning, I would like, first of all, to express my recognition to the resolution ministry and the minister because, after some time, public debates and public debates, we have a proposal for a law on sport, which is a system law. He certainly has the intention and desire to express the interest of sports, both amateur, professional, recreational, Olympic, especially disabled persons, which this bill particularly highlights and apostrophe. Then, school sport, for which I would like to be slightly more represented in this legislative proposal and my discussion will mainly be based on this topic; of course, and military sport, which could be more significantly covered by this bill. Also, this bill goes into many other fundamental issues. Among others are two that have already been held in these discussions in principle, with regard to privatisation and funding of sports, as well as the state and participation of the state in the sport itself. The SPS-JS Parliament Club expressed its views, first of all, through amendments. In particular, we will discuss these topics more specifically, but we expect this debate in principle, and in particular, to draw the best solutions when it comes to privatisation and respecting interested and large clubs, i.e. clubs of national interest. Of course, when it comes to funding sports, we believe that the funds that will be made out of privatisation or other means should be 100% or in a large percentage return to sport itself. The participation of the state should be defined in accordance with constitutional provisions, respecting international standards, but, of course, also positive contemporary practice in Europe and the world. Like I said, first of all, I'd like to talk about the topic of school sport, which has already been discussed here. And in the very concept of this bill, several objectives have been declared, some 19; among other things, at regular number 14, whether by regular number or by place of validity, it has been defined as one of the objectives, the development of school sports and the promotion and establishment of a functional system of school sports competitions. The importance of this goal is also confirmed by the European Sports Charter, then the Code of Sports Ethics, which says that the state, i.e. public authorities, should ensure the building of foundations, i.e. sports in schools and around schools. This is certainly a good way to develop a sports spirit among children of school age, youth, and students, which essentially implies qualities such as fair play, honesty, health, teamwork, dedication, solidarity. You'll agree, of course, that's all the qualities that a young man needs to embellish and represent a base for all future life activities of a young man. As a result, the importance of school is recognised in the fact that it is a place where sport first has a mass and humanistic expression. He's based on a non-competitional basis. However, in this place, and even at all in the discussion, I will try to bring out a lot of information that supports my thesis. The data suggests that a large number of abstinents, students freed from the teaching of physical education, and of course, in this situation and from participation in school competitions. In this place, I'd like to say that school sport is very important because of the so-called. a sensitive period of the child. Experts define the period as a period during which physical exercise can achieve very significant and super-average results at that time. If this sensitive period in which optimal effects can be achieved fails, this golden period for the development of appropriate physical abilities will be irrevocable. It seems to me that this proposal, with only two members of the school sport, didn't take much into account in that direction. Of course, there could be one way and a path for planning and programming the physical preparation of young people in sport. It's, first of all, one base for creation, so to speak, quantity, mass participation. From that quantity, surely, it is very likely that a number of top professional athletes will emerge. A 2009 survey by the Republic Sports Institute suggests that our young population shows an inverse character of physical abilities compared to physical development. What does that mean? Our young population shows progress when it comes to physical development. It's logical, because of economic and social progress. However, when it comes to physical abilities, motor skills, and functional abilities, we have the opposite trend and the reduction of these abilities. When comparing this with some results from other European countries, it is evident that our founding fathers are below average in most of these results. This must certainly be the starting point from which the relevant institutions and the relevant ministry, as well as all other institutions and sports organisations in the field of sport, should move towards appropriate measures. In that case, it is certainly necessary to develop and improve school sports. For years, sports and recreation results were estimated only by the number of medals won. The impact of sports and recreation on man, on his health, working ability and culture of life is rarely recorded. I'd say that's exactly the aspect of valorizing the essential value of sports. One of the data that is also not to be praised is that estimates say that regular physical exercise in preschool institutions covers only 5-7% of children. According to available data from health and preschool institutions, the number of spinal column status disorders increased from 60% from 1987 to 85-90%, the foot status from 35% to 65%. Of course, these studies show that they are anomalies at the initial stage. If they left, in older ages they would certainly have gone to a more significant kind of deformity. The same data tells us about the movements of the founding fathers and high school boys. If we add that children today are less active than their peers from earlier generations, it should be noted that a large number of primary and secondary school students are not engaged in minimal physical activity. One part involved in sports activities is included in sports clubs, which are often commercial. Parents need to allocate certain resources. These clubs are normally engaged and under-quality trainers. The specific part we're talking about here is the student population. In Vojvodina, almost an organized sport in the student population died. In addition to some university league that exists in football and basketball, there are no others, and up to 15 years ago, the teaching of physical education in all state colleges was mandatory. We used to have mass competitions, famous school Olympics, where thousands of participants were present. What today characterizes this kind of competition is that a number of participants appear in a double sense: first of all, through participation in their clubs appears in these active leagues, as well as in these school competitions. Of course, some measures should be taken and perhaps applied by the American model, which provides for the creation of a single competition system for these gifted children, leaving the other children with the possibility of a school competition. Studies and polls say that children of school and high school age want to play sports, see it as a way of life, and that they prefer to play on a losing team than sit on a winning team bench. It's one of the basic ways to motivate children to engage in mass sports. In that case, in order to overcome some of these problems, certain financial support should be provided, but also the motivation of teachers, teachers and all those involved in this system. Of course, there is a need to improve school co-operation with local sports clubs and sports alliances. I would also like to contribute to this discussion and some research that has been done in the Central Bank district, to which my municipality has belonged. The data suggests that about 80% of seven-year-olds are intense in front of computers, many of them spend time sitting in front of TV screens and video receivers; only 1% don't watch TV or video at all. These are data that create certain predispositions in this population. If we say that two-thirds of high school students in Serbia smoke and that people around these smokers... So, mostly, that one-third left are passive smokers and consume about 40% of tobacco smoke, with all the consequences. I would like to say that it is clear that the importance of building the foundations of sports spirit in children and youth and sports in schools and around schools is important. This is why I want programmes and projects to be clearly expressed to support school sports. In this respect, the resolution ministry will, in any case, have absolute support for the SPS-JS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50968	Thirteen minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50969	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there are things that I have heard during this discussion and which I really like to say, and there are things that certainly did not cheer me up. Among those who are very fond of me, I will mention them first, include striking love and interest in the sport that exists in this legislative body. It's no surprise to me, but I'm certainly glad to have it re-evaluated. What I am also pleased with, is to quote some relevant documents, such as this survey that you, Mr. Kasalovic, mentioned, research by the Republic Sports Institute of 2009, which speaks of the state of children in schools. It is an opportunity to tell those who may not have known it, although I believe most of them knew that this research had been commissioned by the Ministry of Youth and Sports in order to make decisions and strategic determinations based on evidence and evidence. There was also an opportunity to hear another survey, about the state of sports facilities quoted by MP Mr Pelevic, and what school facilities in Serbia look like. I am pleased to find that this research has also been commissioned by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, together with the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Schools, for the purpose of adopting a National Strategy for Sport Development. It really implies to me that exactly the documents that were commissioned and built by the Ministry of Youth and Sports are quoted in this respected legislative body. Also, what I am very fond of and what I want to say here is that a great deal of effort has been done in careful reading of the law on sports, however, I'm afraid that some things have not been carefully read. Then let me briefly say what is certainly striking. There are things that I don't like, and that's when it's realized that in the Ministry of Youth and Sports (there are some qualifications, I'd call them valuable qualifications) non-professional people do. I don't really know who that type of qualification is, and based on what criteria it could bring. I'll quote one qualification on the unprofessional work of our experts. I am terribly sorry if there is confidence amongst the MPs that sports experts are unprofessional, as, please, there have been mentions; means, not only in the ministry, but in the sport itself we have non-professionals. As Minister of Youth and Sports, I must tell you that this is deeply incorrect. There's one more thing we've done just to improve expertise. The Youth and Sports Ministry has already made its efforts, in a broad consultation process, a regulation on the nomenclature of sports professions, which has just been quoted here. That rulebook is in effect right now. The second rule, concerning the licensing of experts, is not yet in force, although the working group made up of people from the university, people from the alliance, people from the Ministry of Youth and Sports, from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, has made a rule on licensing, which is ready, as a sublegal act, the moment when and if this law is passed. I'll just say that there are things that are unclear about the definition within the National Assembly of the size of the law. In fact, in the presentation of the same parliamentary groups, we have some contradictory demands. On the one hand, if I understand correctly, there are requirements for the law to be shorter and smaller, and then the same parliamentary group requires that the law be extended, namely, to be more extensive in areas such as police sports, military sports, university sports, and school sports. It is my deep request, as a representative of the executive government, that people decide what they want, whether they want a big, large law or want a short law. That should be, one, clearer. Two, what's also striking to me, it's a question of school sport, and of police and military, which, especially in the legislative body, would have to be clear, regulated by some other laws, not by the law of sport. In fact, the Ministry of Education is responsible for schools and universities and, as far as I know, a new law has recently been passed, relatively new and relatively recent, regarding this matter. The same goes for military and police sports and the elements mentioned here. With school sport, seeing as it will be a very interesting topic, it is an opportunity to say that 68 halls, 207 terrains, four swimming pools and one ice-skating site have been built in Serbia during the term of office of this Ministry of Youth and Sports for the time being. The vast majority of these 68 halls, which are balloon halls, which are sports halls, school sports halls, 70% of these infrastructure procedures were just at school, and of these 207 terrains, which do not account for 52 fields with artificial grass, which are also close to school, are more than 50% school grounds. It is a testimony to the seriousness of investments that the Ministry of Youth and Sports, although eighteenth of the budget size, has succeeded in three and a half years to renovate the infrastructure. One more thing about school sports: I will tell you that the school Olympics are held next year in Sremska Mitrovica, the same year as the London Olympics. Evidence of how much the Youth and Sports Ministry invests in this matter is the fact that one NGO, an association of citizens, which is otherwise designated by the Ministry of Education to be responsible for these issues, therefore, the Alliance for School Sport and Olympic Education, in the rooms of the Ministry of Youth and Sports provided the office so that they could work uninterruptedly. We raised the budget from seven million, what they had last year, to twenty million, as far as they have now, and we predicted they had much better working conditions, just to help with the school sport. The last thing I wanted to say on this occasion is to ask the MPs that, with their proven love, interest and knowledge of sports, all of the authority and zeal shown in this topic, and when there is a discussion about the next budget of the Republic of Serbia and that, on behalf of everyone you have defended, we increase the overall budget for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50970	The People's Messenger, Zoran Shami, has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50971	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, there is no doubt a law before us that, not only by its title, but also by its essence, would have to be one of the system laws. Right away, the DSS and I are not personally worthy of the laws by measuring in kilograms, but by what the law says. That's the only way I've ever read this law. First of all, I want to say that the DSS, of course, thinks it's worth passing the law on sports. Also, the Democratic Party of Serbia is aware of how difficult it is to write a good sport law because the problems are numerous and, unlike some other areas, even completely different to each other. I'll just give you a few examples. On the one hand, we need to take care of our high-quality athletes, who are engaged in attractive sports. We also have to make sure that in some attractive sports we don't currently have high-quality athletes. We have to deal with our top athletes and in unattractive sports. Of course, we have to develop sports and sports that are not attractive, and in which we do not currently have representatives. That's one group of problems we have to deal with, as you can see, with some four different categories. On the other hand, of course, there's a problem, I wouldn't call it a school sport... I agree with Mrs. Minister who just said that in some other laws we should deal with school sports, she's right there, that's true, but there's one broad area, which is how to organize young people to practice amateur sports. Today, as you well know, it doesn't work at all. It only works by having moms and dads who possibly have some money pay their kids to train basketball or whatever. Not to mention the well-known fact that a dozen of our most famous tennis players have become big tennis players. Certainly not by taking care of them by the state, but by caring for their parents, they did so in a wide variety of ways. The question arises, how many would they be if they were some logical consequence of state concern for sport? There's something else that needs to be added to all of this. If we don't want to hide, the fact is that our sports alliances, honor of exceptions, in many cases don't work well, or, to be precise, don't work at all, so we have a paradoxical situation that we have top, I don't know, basketball players or top tennis players, and their alliances do nothing, or do anything, but not what they need. I said this all at the beginning, and just because I'm going to say it one more time, the DSS has an understanding that writing a law like this is very difficult. Unfortunately, we don't think the law is right. Not because you didn't try, not because it was written by experts like this, it's simply missing, and it's worth fixing, and it's very serious. I'm not going to talk about details and details, that's what we're going to talk about when there's a debate in particular, but in principle there are three groups of problems. I told you the other day in a conversation at the MP's club, one part of the law was rather declarative about indisputable things, well, that's fine, but in many situations, that declaration could have been simpler and clearer. So, in my opinion, there's unnecessary and too much rhetoric in everything. The second observation, which is actually much more serious, is that there is a whole group of problems that are very important and which the law does not deal with, or does not deal with in a sufficiently concrete way. I could give you a lot of examples, I mentioned one, and I'll mention it here. I think that in this law, since it is a system law for the field of sports, a provision must be found for the possibility of our best-paid top athletes paying taxes in Serbia. Not by ordering them, no one can order them, but ask yourself why most of them have their residences in Monaco. Well, the tax rate, of course. If you make them pay taxes like any other private, they'll find a country where tax conditions are better. I think it's the country's interest not to invite these people to patriotism, just work, that it's the country's interest to make it possible through some appropriate financial laws. The law on sports requires it in principle to predict as a possibility, and then it's a matter of other laws to regulate it. And finally, there's a third kind of question and problem, it's been tried to get rid of them, but I'm afraid they've been solved wrong. I'm afraid all questions related to sports privatisation are somewhat archaic. On the one hand, there's a thread going through somewhere about, let's say, etatism in sport, which we used to have; on the other hand, of course, there's a mention of privatisation, but then it's mentioned, and it's like a great achievement, yeah, I think 70% of it needs to be put back into sport. You know what, I guarantee you that any private who becomes the owner of a sports society, a club, whatever, has zero income, is going to get zero; no one reasonable is going to show a profit, so 70% of that zero is going to be zero again. So I say, I understand, the intention was good, but it was written so it didn't really mean anything. That's the kind of story you have in law as much as you want. That's nice, that reminds me, you know, but that seems to be, I'm sorry, female trend in the government. You know, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic thought she could fill the budget by making some beer tax there instead of 30% of 60%. They won't, because then the people drink twice as much beer and then we're back on the same thing. I understand your need to regulate it somehow, but the way you've done it is not good. It's not good, and it won't help sports, on the one hand, or the state on the other. After all, neither to society nor to all of us who, from whatever parties we come from, are naturally interested, because there are some things in the country that we cannot have special political interests about. One of those things is science, another education, third sport, there's health care. We can't have any political health or political sport. However, we can, I can see that there is once again fashion for various politicians to be presidents of boards, associations, etc. One of them might listen to me. I'm not personally into that kind of solution. It's not a matter of law, it's something else, not to say what. To finish, we can't support this law. We find it useful to pass the sport law, but it could have been much more serious, with respect for the fact that it was very difficult and that's why I started. It's really hard to make a good sport law. Finally, as for good intentions, I fully believe that the Ministry and you personally had very good intentions, but as one Italian Renaissance poet put it, "the road to hell is paved by good intentions". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50972	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50973	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal for a law on sport for LDP is an empty shell, which does not provide answers to the most basic problems and issues sports face in the 21st century. It is not surprising, therefore, that some MPs of the ruling coalition have expressed doubts about individual solutions in this bill, expressing exactly what the Liberal-Democratic Party has insisted on introducing Mr Rangelovic and through our amendments. We should also say that sport in the 21st century is most developed thanks to economic interest. This economic interest in this bill does not exist, and if it does exist, it is given in a very harsh way. People who like sports should be involved in sports, and we must clearly define what economic interests are in sport, because where there is sales of players, sales of television rights and cards, there is this economic interest. Civilised countries differ from others, among other things, because that economic interest clearly defines it, makes it transparent, and I'm afraid it does not exist in this bill. If it doesn't exist, then it will all come back to us as a boomerang, either through violence at sports events, or through various affairs that are related to the functioning of sports. It is not a fight against that arrest in front of the cameras of the unfortunate Jajic, while many other individuals who have violated and violated the law, and are tied to sports, continue to do so normally. The Liberal Democratic Party has already pointed out some shortcomings related to the bill's proposal, and I will try to point to some more. Article 3 defines concepts from the field of sport in an imprecise and wrong way. For example, point 6: "a sportsman is a person engaged in sports activities". This turns out he's a sportsman and a sportsman in his backyard. Point 11: "Perspective (talented) athlete is a minor athlete who, on the basis of the sports results achieved, is ranked according to the national categorisation of athletes, in the category of perspective athletes". We think this is a bit of a strange explanation, because one who is 18 or 19 can also be a perspective athlete, and I'm afraid by interpreting it, he's denied the possibility of what's provided for in this bill. Point 20: ‘Sport rules are the rules laid down by the general acts of the relevant national sports alliances’, etc. There is nowhere to foresee compliance with the relevant acts of European, or world sports alliances. Article 22 for LDP may be the weirdest member. This member, as Professor Rangelovic pointed out, is ordered, we can freely tell the athletes to participate in the representative uniform, without a clear penalty if it does not happen. I mean, we have one legal obligation, which doesn't have any legal sanctions. Also, here is another question – can someone order someone to participate in a representative uniform, is that not a violation of some of his human rights, on the one hand? On the other hand, what do we expect from that athlete who is ordered to participate in a representative uniform, do we expect that he will have the same motive to achieve excellent results as that athlete who does so with his own will? Article 38. The bill of law is, among other things, one of the members who best speak of, I will call it, state interventionism. Namely, Article 38. The bill even sets the level of the monthly membership fee. We think it's inadmissible and it needs to be deleted from the bill. Also, here I will take the opportunity to point out, if it is defined by the bill that there are clubs of national importance, it is necessary, by law, to define which clubs are of national importance, not that the government makes decisions that clubs are of national importance. I think there might be some kind of party decision situation here or something. If we have some institutions of national importance, we really need to define that by the bill. A 96th member for LDP is not good because, among other things, it violates autonomy in the work of sports organisations. All issues related to the organisation and development of sports competitions, including obtaining work permits, should be decided by sports organisations, without the influence of the state and without any consent of the ministry. Article 148 of the LDP can be disputed, because if any sports object is declared as an object of national importance by the Government act, it should be added to the position or part that says that the purpose of the facility cannot be changed. We've made an amendment that goes that way. Also, Article 154 is not good for us, especially from 1 to 4 because this is about the Ministry's discretionary decision on the survival of a particular sports facility. The criteria for making a decision on changing the purpose of a sports facility are quite general. Also, I would like to take this opportunity to note that many documents by the Council of Europe and the EU state that the possibility of making a discretionary decision has the most impact on abuse and corruption in countries in the transition process. Article 180(2) is not good, as it is foreseen that the funds achieved from the sale of the capital of the privatisation entity can be paid into the budget fund for the financing of sports. If that's already defined, we don't think it should be a matter of goodwill, but a commitment that needs to be fulfilled. In the end, I'd like to say that our proposal to delete article 190 is to delete it. If the government determines representatives of state or social capital in sports organisations, we are afraid that this is how some party control is done again, not to say party governance. All this stuff I've been talking about, along with the presentation of Professor... Rangelovic, it shows that we cannot support this bill. Also, we will support those amendments to the ruling coalition that require the prolonging of the application of certain provisions of this law, because we think it is really necessary that all sports facilities and all sports institutions are ready to implement all the legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50974	Eight minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a minister of sports and youth, Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50975	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I came forward on this issue that MP Hajdarevic mentioned about the definition of sports activities. So that there may be no doubt in the future, and it will certainly appear during the debate, both in principle and in particular today, my answer to the question of this definition will at the same time be the answer to Professor Shami's questions regarding tax policy. First, I want to say that the law on sport cannot be addressed in any way by tax policy issues, although it was a really important issue during the public debate, since many people who participate in the sport system in Serbia had the idea to improve the financial situation in sport by regulation of tax policy. Should it be said precisely in this legislature that the law on sports cannot provide that kind of regulation? But what we've tried to do, as a prerequisite, is just to separate activities from action. You will see this throughout the law, that sports activities are defined, such as competition, this refers to competition and other sports activities. Unlike activity, there are sporting activities. Sports activity is the provision of services to third parties and it is something that does not concern competition, which is more cost than gain, which is not the subject of this law; acquisition is the subject of other laws in this country. What's important to me to tell you about this is the amount of monthly membership you're talking about. Not just you, there were more comments from the MPs about this definition in law. In its practice, the ministry has had numerous comments, complaints and problems that parents face; they have just advocated, parents, at all levels, local, regional and republican, to limit membership in clubs. She refers first of all to sports activities. The membership fee is, accordingly, limited to safeguarding the donations that parents have for high monthly membership fees. I'd like to add two different differences that I wanted to deal with. You object to the law that has an obligation to comply with the rules of the border union, but not with the international. I'm taking this opportunity to inform you, if you didn't know, that the border sports alliance, in order to be members of an international alliance at all, must comply with the rules of this international alliance. On several occasions, the minister's discretionary will has been mentioned, to decide on this or that. What is present in the law is that the minister is passing a sublegal act and I ask that you do not treat the sublegal act as a discretionary will of the minister, as the sublegal acts represent only a more detailed regulation of certain subjects in the law. The last thing I wanted to say was the question of the definition of a budget fund for sports infrastructure. You won't be surprised that the idea of the Youth and Sports Ministry was that if funds were obtained from this privatisation process in sport, those funds go right into the budget fund for sport infrastructure, because we are truly aware, as you are, that the sports infrastructure in Serbia is not at all in good shape. I'll tell you that my answer, and before the law, to the question of sports infrastructure was in the Government Act, because when I became Minister of Youth and Sports, I suggested that a small sector be set up within the Ministry to deal with sports infrastructure, which so far did not exist. That kind of answer exists in the Government Act. However, as regards the budget fund for sport infrastructure, during a review within the government's procedure, the ministry responsible for these issues could not accept that both privatisation funds in the area, as well as in any other area. We felt that the compromise we had achieved in the interest of sport was at least that there was the possibility that these funds could be transferred to the budget, i.e. the budget fund for sport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50976	Before we finish our morning session today, on the basis of Articles 87 and 90 of Article 2, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 1800 hours today. I'm setting a break now. This afternoon's session will continue at 15.05 hours of debate in order of the MPs. The first to be declared is MP Jovan Nesovic, followed by MP Judita Popovic. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] We continue our work in the afternoon, according to the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the general debate on the proposal for a law on sport. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic, followed by MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50978	Dear Chairman, members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have today a system law, a law on sport. In addition to sports activities that define and edit this law, sport has other important things, important dimensions that define in one society, and that is something that is important for education, health care, promotional activity, economy, science, tourism and all that has to do with sports. When we talk about one system law, it is very important in the beginning to say whether this law has passed a public debate, because to come to the National Assembly, it is necessary that all the factors, and those to whom the law will apply the law, control the application of the law, say everything they have to say in public debate. For two years, about two years, there was some debate about this sport law. All those who wanted to contribute, from local self-government, border councils, NGOs engaged in sports, and individuals interested, could say their suggestions in different places. On the other hand, there is always dissatisfaction, especially with those whose suggestions for certain reasons could not be found in the law. It is clear that today a large number of debaters and fellow MPs who spoke of the shortcomings of this law said those things that simply certain lobbys could not fit into this law. It's something that needs to be admitted and that's true. There was a public debate. It's enough to go online and type in a few words, you'll see, across Serbia, from north to south, from east to west, especially in larger centres, there were public debates and everyone could talk about this law. Due to the limited time of my parliamentary group, I will only look back at a few things in this law that I think are important, which is, firstly, the financing of sports; we are talking about funding that is related to local self-government, autonomous province and national level, or state. It is defined to be financed by the state by certain programmes and projects. What is also important is to define annual programmes and define public calls for specific programmes. It is often said in this assembly that the ministry is what it decides, sometimes even on the party line it decides on the allocation of funds. This is a sufficient example, where you simply define a specific annual programme that passes professional organisations. So the programmes have their own exact dynamics, or calendar, it also coincides with the budget calendar during the adoption of the budget for a specific calendar year. The border unions define their scholarship-related programmes for certain sports activities, events that are being held. They hand it over to the Sports Union of Serbia. On the other hand, there is the Olympic Committee, which defines its programme. These two programs are united and coming to the Ministry. There is a commission in the ministry, consisting of experts who are representatives of the Olympic Committee, the Sports Alliance of Serbia and the Republic Sports Institute. They are the ones who evaluate these programmes and ultimately propose the minister, of course, the minister is making a final decision. I think it's important that in this law, in addition to the application procedure, it's defined and the approval procedure, but also the contracts, reporting and control of spending. You cannot dispose of state money without having rigorous control and precisely in the law defined that those who do not spend the funds will be suspended; it even comes to the fact that they return funds to the budget if these funds are unintendedly spent, with interest. I think that's okay. If you run state money, taxpayers' money, then you have to act like one. There have often been words here about giving more money for certain sports. I agree, but, you know how, you can give out of the Republic of Serbia's budget as much money as you've defined with the budget and you can't resolve it afterwards through the law, it's resolved through the Budget Law. When it's the Budget Act, if we spend more money on a budget fund, then water polo, handball, cocoa, boxing, karate and everyone else gets more; if they have less money, they'll definitely get less. What's important, there are criteria, there's legislation, there's a strategy, and based on these criteria, the law and the strategy are going to split the money. The other thing that matters is objects. Objects are infrastructure without which there is no development of sport, and that is a perfectly clear thing. It is good that it is defined that there are national facilities, objects that are of public importance and objects that are important for an autonomous province, i.e. local self-government. Also, school facilities have been defined. These school facilities should be for the sport of school children, i.e. young children; they can be used for other purposes, but do not endanger the school calendar of certain activities defined. It is important to stress that sports facilities in Serbia today are not adequate, but it has not been so in the last two years, it is because they have not been invested over the past twenty years. To be perfectly honest, in the past few years by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, since it has been established in the government of the Republic of Serbia, it has been heavily invested in sports facilities. I think there's one more thing that's important. It is important to say that all projects that go towards sports facilities are approved through a public competition. So, local self-government on whose territory it is necessary to build a hall, open terrain, closed swimming pool or any other sports facility to register; everyone has the right, there are certain criteria. On the basis of the criteria, it is defined which are most needed and is trying to take care of the even representation of all parts of Serbia, so that today it can be discussed that there were sports facilities in Leskovac, and in Leban, both in Nis, and in the King, and in Subotica, any city in Serbia. Basically, if we want to develop Serbia evenly, we have to make sure that every local self-government has to get a certain sports facility. In the end, what hurts the most and the most, it's a matter of privatisation in sports. I think it's important to take this first step, and it's a record of the assets of sports organisations and all other entities. I think it's something the Ministry did right. They've all got a year to record. I think it's important to make one database. It is precisely defined here that if, for objective reasons, not all of what is required in that record's application can be defined, it can be extended, but it has to be completed. When this is over, then you can go to the privatisation of social and state property. It is clear that this law must be in agreement with another law, which is the Privatisation Act. You can't have a different relationship, it's something called the conformity of those two laws. It's a good thing sports organisations, or clubs, can't privatize persons with criminal record. It's explicitly given in this law and I think it's important. One more thing is important to define – that the purpose of sports facilities cannot be changed after privatisation, except with the permission of the resolution ministry. I think it's a good thing, because the point is to protect the sporting activities that should take place in these facilities that are the subject of privatisation. In the end, I think this law is very good, that it will introduce enough order in the state of Serbia, that the results in sports and everything that is related to sports will be better than they have ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50979	Eight minutes and fifteen seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50980	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Liberal-Democratic Party expected a much more summary, rational and quality law than this bill that came to the Assembly's agenda. I'd like to come from a member of the First Law, which defines the content of the law. Among other things, this Article 1 states that everything related to registration and privatisation in the field of sport is regulated. Then, among other things, this law defines the basic principles on which it is based. These are, for example, the principle of free sport, the principle of the protection of the health of athletes, the principle of professionalism, the principle of dedicated use of sports facilities, the principle of transparent and dedicated use of funds from public income and the principle of full regulation of the field of sport. What is common in this Article 1 which, among other things, regulates and privatises in the field of sport, as well as these principles? The common denominator is that this law regulates substances that are otherwise subject to and contained in certain other laws. Therefore, if this law regulates privatisation in the field of sports, if it regulates the health of athletes, I see no obstacle why this law would not regulate any fiscal relief. You, Madam Minister, have noted that the law cannot enter into the scope of tax laws concerning certain tax exemptions, or tax reliefs. The very principles that I have listed and Article 1 speak exactly the opposite. We of the Liberal-Democratic Party, above all, resent this law's grossness, given the number of members, i.e. the length of this law. This law is too much about norming, too much about it, and thus burdens the content itself, which should be much clearer, much more focused on the major problem of sport. Let's just say, I'd like to give an example: the definition of a sportsman. This definition includes athletes and those who are recreationally engaged in sports. I think it's rather odd for a law that predicates to be professional and to deal exclusively with athletes, to deal with, among other things, with recreationals. This law introduces some kind of forced labour into regulation, because what is it, if it isn't forced labor, if you force someone to play for the national team, and this one, for example, has no will and desire to do so? He will most likely not have a special motivation to make the most of himself during a game he must be forced to participate in as a representative. I think there's a little too much state interventionism. From these provisions, which are really seas and there are too many, we can just determine that and that there is interventionism. So the state claims to norm and something that may be outside the scope of her jurisdiction. There are problems with this law and what is evident is that some kind of new nationalisation is being introduced on a small door, as the proposal creates the basis for nationalising the assets of sports organisations under the company of recording assets and capital of sports organisations for later privatisation. Under this law, there could possibly be another sale of those immovable property that should be returned to the old owners. Then, the idea that 20% of capital is transferred during the privatisation process to club members without compensation is really questionable, because it cannot be determined with certainty who are members of most clubs in Serbia and who are fans to be recognized by the club, is completely undefined and controversial. So these are the main objections that we have in relation to this law. In particular, I would like to highlight the indication of the conventions that have been taken into account when this bill was drawn up. These are: Convention on the Prevention of Violence in Sports Fields, European Convention on the Prevention of Doping in the Sports of the Council of Europe, Principles of Sports Policy for All, the Code of Sports Ethics, etc. So these regulations, which are set out in the bill itself, suggest that the world really took sport seriously as an activity, as a kind of joint work of all citizens of the world, a common entertainment, and that it has an impact on all people who love sport and sport. (President: National MPs, the time at your disposal has been used. I'm sorry, I just want to finish my sentence. What did our country do about preventing violence in sports, sports events and the like? (President: seven minutes. ) Therefore, calling on all these conventions obliges our country to do everything, including this law, to prevent any kind of violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50981	Thank you. The word has a minister of sports and youth, Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50982	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First, I'll take the opportunity, just for a little while, to thank you for having great expectations of this law. It doesn't surprise me, it's natural for anyone who knows the work of this ministry to have high expectations. I thank you again for that. I am taking the opportunity to express my expectations, which is that you as a MP and your MP group are reading the law carefully, because this 20% capital commitment, as it belongs to the members, has not entered into the legal procedure at all and is not entering into this bill that is before the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50983	The word is by MP Milan Vukovic, followed by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Madam Chairman, we have heard voices since 2001 that we need a new law on sports. Here, we can already celebrate the jubilee as the laws are written; some come to the Assembly, most don't come, and some from the Assembly withdraw, and finally, ten years after the initial announcements of a new law on sports, we have one proposal for a law on sport. Thank God for that, thank the Ministry and the government for that. Why hasn't the law been passed so far, even though there was a need for it ten years ago? I guess it's about the different interests of the participants in the sport, which are hard to reconcile. But it's not our place to settle different interests. It's our job to see what we expect in sports, why sport is important to us, to know what the law needs to bring us. In that sense, it is completely irrelevant whether the law has ten members or tens of thousands of members. We've been hearing this debate all day about the law being too big. So what if it's too big, it's hard for you to read? What can I do to you? It's no problem if the law has many or few members, it's irrelevant. What matters is what the law gives us and what is what we expect from sports. From sports, first of all, we should expect it to be available to citizens, because sport means health. "Sport for All" is a parole we need to adopt. From sports or sports law, we should expect the development of top-notch sport, because it's business, it's also a nation's promotion. Those two things should be put in some kind of egal. The law needs to bring improvements to those two fields. Also, what is unclear with us, and Western European countries have no problem with it, is the status of clubs, privatisation, yes or no. There are various issues open, but we certainly expect the law on sports to solve it. First of all, sports as health. If there is a consensus about something in the scientific world, it is that sitting is unhealthy, and that physical activity is something that contributes to better health, longer and better quality life. Given that we do not all live in a healthy natural environment, not all of us do physical affairs, this means that we should allow sport to be made available to all citizens of Serbia as much as possible. Thank God, there are many different sports disciplines, anyone can find someone close to him and give himself a longer and better life. For children, sport is crucial. Although the child's body itself requires the child to be an active, modern lifestyle, entertainment of a video game type, computers... Okay, the organism itself requires activity, co-worker, so it's possible. That's what we elders don't feel, kids can't sit still. That's what I meant. If it's not clear, we can still talk about it. Certainly, a child's organism requires activity. I'll give you an example: at my place in Kragujevac, a few years ago, when the VAT was reduced for computers, when everyone suddenly got computers, I asked the other – what happens to basketball courts? We couldn't come to play earlier, we couldn't get an appointment to play in those sports fields. Today they're empty. He said -- everyone's in the virtual world, everybody's got a computer, and that's how they have fun, and with health, we'll see later. What do the research say? Kolega Kasalovic has already mentioned a survey by the Republic Sports Institute, and you, Madam Minister, mentioned the research that we all saw as members of the Youth and Sports Committee several months ago at our committee session. Here, for information to your colleagues, you may have had a different perception, but our children are taller, heavier and more immobilized than children in Europe and compared to children in Serbia 15, 16 or 20 years ago. For example, compared to the 1995 peers, the foundings in Serbia are about 3% higher, but are about 13% heavier. Their body mass index is about 6% higher. That's not good. The motor test results show that they have been reduced by 9% on average over the past 15 years. That means that if we reduce another 9% in 15 years, the question is, what are our younger populations going to look like? In most motor tests, student results in Serbia are below average in Europe. Bigger mass, weaker muscles. What's the situation with adults, I won't tell you. Each of us can look at its nearest environment (he doesn't have to look at statistics) and see the spread of diseases that are directly related to lack of physical activity, so it'll all be clear to him. Serbia – a sports nation. I don't think so, based on this data. That sounds more like a phrase. The sports development strategy, adopted by the government in 2008, correctly sees school sport as one of the priorities. It finds that there are not enough classes of physical culture or physical education in schools, that halls are in poor condition, and that many schools, even many places, do not have the opportunity to sport in a closed area. However, no significant space has been given in the law itself, except in Article 150, where school sports facilities can be given to other persons for use only when all teaching and extracurricular sports activities are satisfied. Great, I think we should all support it because it is the fact that in many schools children are hostages to those who have to pay an appointment. I understand school directors, I understand schools, it's one of their rare incomes, which they could use, but if we don't put the kids in school as a priority, where are we going to put them? Not only schooled, but all other sports facilities must be protected. So I support the ban on changing the purpose of sports facilities, putting an end to it, and that's a great idea, because if we leave everything to the market, if we give rich people in Serbia to choose how things work, I'm afraid the whole of Serbia would be, and all of us here, just one big mall and nothing else. Also, I think that, perhaps not in this law, but in the future, a system of school sports should be developed more. That's what many people said today, and that's the basics. Maybe it's not just the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Education and some other ministry, but it's something important. As someone who comes from a university town, I think it's a very important university sport. That's what many colleagues used to mention, but it's not burning to say one more time. Croatia, I read their law, has only two members on school sports, but has a strategy for developing school sports. That's not a bad idea for us. The other thing that the law has to regulate and that it has to advance is so-called. It's a top-of-the-line sport. And here we have progress in this bill compared to 1996 and the law since then. It is very good that a clear way of funding in sport is defined, which projects are related to, by which priorities, which are dates. It's transparent and that's how it's supposed to be. I think it is very good that the Olympic Committee of Serbia and the Sports Union of Serbia are involved, as bodies that have existed for decades in Serbia, which will exist in the future. The departments may combine in one way or another, but I think we can rely on the capacity of these bodies. For example, I found information that in Italy, the Olympic Committee is doing more work, what the Ministry is doing with us. The law further protects athletes themselves, specifically, pay great attention to the protection of the health of athletes. It's something to praise. It abolishes the practice of setting the so-called so-called secret contracts by concluding the contract in writing between athletes and sports organisations and registering with the national border sports alliance. What is very important to me is that national sports recognition is given to every athlete who won the medal at the Olympics, the Paralympic Games, the World and European Championships, that is, if they were champions at world or European championships or conquerors of the Davis Cup or the Fed Cup. It's something we owe these athletes because they won medals on behalf of a country. They wore them on their chests, but we know whose flag went up. For a country that is as poor as Serbia and which is not exactly the best voice in the world yet, I think it is a significant promotion, and we should not ignore it. I was talking to a friend who was in the U.S. the moment Davis Cup was played in Belgrade. He told me that the picture of Belgrade, New Belgrade, "Arena", is a loop at "Arena" by our athletes, the interior of the hall, which has been on national American television all day, something that has no price for our promotion. That is why it is okay for national sports recognition to be given to all athletes who have met the conditions and to have certain monthly incomes after 40 years of life. We must not allow champions to starve or, God forbid, starve to death, as was the case in some countries around. Thank God we didn't have that. What, unfortunately, has caused the most attention today and in previous days is that privatisation in sports. To me, to be fair, it's one of the least important things about sports itself. It's much more important for sport to be available to everyone, much more important what I said a moment ago, the health of our children, than what the situation in clubs is. Far from not having to solve it and far from putting things off indefinitely and maintaining the status quo, because the existing situation is not right. I think we can agree on that. If it's no good, let's see what we can do. What does the law give us? When we look at the state of sports in Serbia, we have two extremes. They're in one, and that's most of them, athletes enthusiasts, coaches, those who are out of pure love of sport, often about personal cost, dealing with certain sports. It's for all praise. On the other hand, we have big capital and big profits. How do I know that as a layman and as someone who's not in the system? I'm just looking at who are the people who are "attacking" in the administrations of some football clubs. These people, I'm not gonna tell you what they do, they're always where the profits are high. It's high time we found out whose stadiums, whose sports facilities, who and what they run. Do we know what happens in clubs? Do we know whose property it is? I don't know. As far as I can tell, no one in the country knows. Everyone assumes, everyone speaks for themselves. It is a good opportunity that in the next year, or as long as the recording process takes, we find out what the state is there, to create a more transparent system in clubs and finally get out of the existing state, under quotes, which is one agony of Serbian sports back in the years. Anyone who says otherwise, I don't think he's telling the truth, consciously or unconsciously. One of the things I'm also going to vote for this bill is the Council for Preventing Violence and Misbehavior in Sports. It may be subjective, because as chairman of the Youth and Sports Committee, I took part in the work of this council, but I think what this council has done is good to establish that this body is mandatory, not an ad hoc body that the government can form. To shorten this whole debate, of course, the law, as colleagues said, is large and should be discussed for a very long time, but I was trying to focus on some basic things. I wouldn't explain the other parts of the law, but I would quote you two contradictory statements and views of sports. Pierre de Kuberten says – it is important to participate. It's important to compete, not to win. Vince Lombardi, the famous late coach "Green Bay Bakers", says – winning is not the most important thing, it is the only thing. I think it's most important for most of us to participate in sports, because it's beneficial for our health. I think that here in the debate in the Assembly we should not allow to have the winners and the winners, but that each of us needs, and in discussions and amendments, to contribute to making the law as good as possible, because that will depend on the future of the next generations, related to sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50985	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is thirteen minutes. The word has a youth and sports minister, Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50986	Thank you. I am using the opportunity for this idea presented by the president of the Youth Committee and sport MP Mr. Milan Vukkovic on the strategy for the development of school sport as an excellent way and mechanism to develop this segment of sport as well... I think it's a great idea. I want to publicly say that, together with the Committee, we will be happy to do so. Secondly, when you have mentioned Pierre de Kuberten in your statement of law, I will share with you a dilemma that I shared with Mr Jacques Rogge, who is today the president of the IOC. Just before we start a public debate in 2007 on the law on sports, I talked to him about that when the minister has one cake that needs to be distributed fairly, he should also consider those aspects such as the results, such as the elements of school sport and the elements of the nation's health. I asked him a question, if he were Serbia's sports minister, to give priority, to best share a cake, in line with a healthy nation. Mr Jacques Rogg, since the Olympic Committee is one of the world's most influential sports movements, he thought, of course, sportingly and told me the following – ma'am, I must say, with all due respect, you are not the Minister of Health, you are the Minister of Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50987	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic. After him, MP Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50988	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, dear colleagues, after a long time, here's the law on sports in front of us. Of course, he's caused a lot of attention, he's caused a lot of controversy about some things, and it's the result of years of waiting for this law, which should define a lot of things. Given the time I have, I will not stick to what many of my colleagues have said, which is privatization of clubs, legalization of property, etc. I'll refer to one segment, one group that is extremely competitive in our country's sports results, which are persons with disabilities, and their participation in sports. I think so far, whether it is this present, without any intention to personally understand me, the ministries have not adequately followed what these people at large international events have achieved as results. They just didn't. I often talk to them, they are simply forced to raise money to pay for the van to go somewhere for an international event, especially when it comes to the European Championship, when it comes to shooting, athletics. Of course, there is a shift and, thank God, thanks to you, Minister, but also to your associates, it's moving. It moves based on projects based on all those tenders, based on international competition calendars, and that's good. It seems to me that this bill does not fully cover, at least not adequately, this category of our athletes. Of course, I've heard it's about the equality of athletes and that's good, because I think people with disabilities are equal to active athletes. It is good that national recognition, in terms of receiving for the winning medals, is at the same level as healthy athletes and athletes with disabilities, unlike some EU countries; in the preparatory talks with us, you said that they have been reduced somewhere, only 30%, as it seems to me, in Hungary, if I understand you well. It's extremely commendable and it's one of the good things. But not all athletes can win top scores, least of all people with disabilities involved in sports. It's just that it's not normal. I'll take another segment, and that's the impact of sports on everyone, we've heard a lot from our colleagues here, that sport has an extraordinary impact on healthy life, on development, etc. I would add another small segment, which is that disabled sports are further affected by the important link between their resociation within society in general; then they feel more important. I think we should pay a little more attention to that than it's ever been before. Not maybe, but for sure. Simply, I expect that in the next period the Ministry has better support when it comes to the results or preparation of top athletes and people with disabilities, but also other clubs and societies in our country that gather these persons and people with disabilities and who are trying to find ways, opportunities to provide them with such conditions for as appropriate training as possible. Many sports facilities that were the subject of the debate here, and will likely be the subject of the debate in the coming days, the privatisation of these sports facilities, are simply not adapted to these people. They can't use them. Very few sports facilities, in terms of open terrain, have all the necessary attributes for these people to be involved in that sport. Some prisoners almost have nothing. It takes a lot of effort and organization to create some means, that swimmers, who have really fantastic results, shooters, who especially have phenomenal results, but don't have adequate shooters, athletes, who have only one or two stadiums where they can go with those wheelchairs... We saw recently, our colleague, one athlete, otherwise, disabled, brought a significant medal from the World Athletics Championship, etc. With regard to what I have stated so far, I expect and believe that such a bill will be a good starting point, both for all the other areas it has covered, so that it covers this area a little bit wider, with a little more adequate access for the disabled, simply to allow even better results to be achieved. In addition to how significant it is to present the fact that our Paralympics from the Beijing Paralympics came with an extremely large number of medals, that this was not accompanied here, there were only a few paragraphs in some public press releases; that the transfer of the opening of the Beijing Paralympic followed half the world, but on our televisions there was no etc. (President: National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. I'm done. I believe that, Madam Minister, you will still have understanding and more attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50989	The word has the youth and sports minister Mrs. Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50990	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to Parliamentarian Dujovic for mentioning this particular topic. From the point of view of the Ministry, I can illustrate to you that in terms of sports infrastructure to adapt athletes with disabilities in practice, from, for example, the installation of elevators in the Sports Hall "The Lake" in Kragujevac to the special adjustment of swimming pools in Svilajnc or Vienna, to the fact that the Republic Sports Institute is also adapted to people with disabilities, both in locker rooms and in elevators. I have to mention, we're planning on doing a lot more. For example, there is currently a special project for the “Veljko Ramadanović” School of Blind and Weaknesses in Zemun, etc. So we do a lot of things for the sports infrastructure for people with disabilities. However, since you have already mentioned the law and the elements of the law relating to it, I will tell you, by one, that, unlike the applicable 1996 law, a new law on sports has been introduced by the Paralympic Committee, which primarily deals with top athletes with disability. Also, I will mention, illustrations are done, Article 114, where as a general interest is cited just as caring about people with disabilities. I will also specify Article 145(3) relating to facilities and predict that all facilities that are being made in the future are adapted to persons with disabilities. In this way through the law, we are not only signalling and norming the inclusion, but we are here and encouraging it, especially with regard to attitude 4, where we are talking about principles, this is the principle of accessibility and equality; we have practically, through this obligation to adapt objects to athletes with disability, we actually cemented it. Through this you see a deep commitment, and you yourself mentioned national recognitions, not to make any segregation between athletes, but to treat them equally and equally, both in practice, as you can see, and in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50991	The word has a folk MP, Miljan Rangelovic, and after that, a folk MP, Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50992	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I think it is already becoming a trend for young generations to simply look forward to discussing the future. Of course, every system law, when it enters this hall, is just a conversation about the future. If there's an area in society that doesn't have a future, if we don't have a system plan, then it's definitely an area of sport. And despite some of the topics that touch this proposal of the law on sports, I want to underline in this place a subject that is above all subjects, and these are children, that is man and that is the life of our fellow citizens. I don't think there's a man who's not happy, so truly happy, when our athletes win, but there's also a lot of people who do sports, who would like to be more serious about sports, but, unfortunately, they're miles away from that serious sport business. If it's weird to say "miles away", I'll explain. We are all witnessing that decades ago, regionally observed, a very uneven investment in the development of sports in our country. When you ask sports workers in Serbia what kind of law they need to be more successful in their sports activities, they say – the law that will let us do. This means that they also need a law that will protect them from all the negative influences that burden sports. How many times and how many years have we heard that the area of sport needs to be further regulated, that it is necessary to adopt a new law on sports. Now is the time to discuss and, of course, adopt this system law. I understand the opposition's disdain, because that disdain in principle only confirms my claim that this is actually a good law. For the first time we have clearly defined categories in sport, for the first time we have clearly defined categories of athletes, sports workers and experts, without which of course there is no sport. To me, as a generation representative who does not want to deal with dirty work, generations whose members are slowly expanding their families, generations who want to live in an orderly state of Serbia, a much more important area defined in the law on sport as "sport for all" and, of course, school sport. Why “Sport for All ”? First of all, it allows us to have a healthier population. I find it very interesting that we save three dinars on a single dollar invested in sports in health. We often hear we have good laws, but we don't have a good application of those laws. I am pleased that this law defines a sports inspector, who will be in charge of controlling the implementation of this law and, of course, controlling all the regulations that will be passed under this system law. On the other hand, as a representative of a political party that directs its political action towards an ordinary man and his life, as a representative of a party that directs political action towards the return of life to those parts of Serbia where life tries to escape, I find it very interesting to be a member of 137 of this law, which clearly defines the powers of local self-government, in terms of development of sports facilities and sports in those places. There's no professional sport that doesn't come out of one basic sport. There is no professional athlete who at some point was not an amateur athlete who at some point did not depend on his own environment. No one here has said what sportsmen from Nis, Književci, Zaječar, Paracino, Nova Varoshi, Leskovci. They say this law is generally very good. I cannot today fail to notice the difference between the MPs who see this law as a means of fighting for better and more successful sport and a better and healthier life and those MPs whom this law and today's debate see as a means of satisfying some of the more or less visible other interests. Most of us, of course, have our favorite club, but that's not why we're trying to come up with all the parts of the law for those reasons. It was a little short for privatisation to become a central issue of this topic. That's why I have to remind myself that privatisation in law is optional, which means it's possible, but it's not mandatory. I'm in favour of hiding behind the sport nothing but sports. I'm in favour of getting those bad people out of this segment of our society. In that sense, I would like to commend the 59th member of this law. I advocate that this topic deals exclusively with sports, and I advocate that the goal be human, not fraud or just profit. Since, once again, for years we have all agreed and asked to adopt this law on sports, I cannot understand some of today's discussions that are now practically against the adoption of this proposal, and even suggest that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. I really can't figure it out. I understand, on the other hand, the same people who are representatives of some opposition parties, because such behaviour represents their party policy, represents their political positions, and we have agreed on the Committee on Youth and Sports, from different parties, that sport is an area in which we have to neutralize the impact of politics. Sports spirit is the essential value of sports. The characteristics of this sports spirit are: ethics, fair-play, tenacity, respect for yourself and other participants in sports, courage and solidarity. These values must be above all individual interests, as each successful society rests on these values. On behalf of the support of these values, I call on the honourable MPs to give their support to this proposal for a law on sport in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50993	Thank you. People's MP Smiljana Milisavljevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50994	Thank you. President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are sure that we are all agreed that our best athletes have really done much to raise Serbia's reputation in the world, which we are all very proud of, and that they are in some way representing our ambassadors. But the controversy is opening up about it, also said MP Shami of the DSS, whether they came to the top results thanks to our classic sport organization model or thanks to their families, who had to take a lot of risks and sacrifice. Many families cannot risk existence to support the advancement of one of their talented children through sport. That is why we from the Democratic Party insist that the state take the initiative; otherwise, the public will never know about many great talents. It's something that's inadmissible. There is no doubt that sport is a matter of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, and this law finds itself, but because of many problems and indeterminateness and that it represents an activity which is necessary to be thoroughly regulated. This law first and foremost gives the sport and all the players around the sport always lacked, and that's responsibility. The good news is that the sports development strategy in Serbia has been raised to the highest level. So it is very important that the strategy is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and brought by it for a period of five years. The law gives a broader framework in which the development of sports should move, with clearly outlined objectives and envisaged implementation through the budget. I must stress that through this law, I have tried for the first time, my opinions are successful, regulation and precise definition of sports associations, from establishment, title, membership, property, to resolving disputes within the association. So far, the practice of organising sports associations has shown that this classical form and the way it has been organised, the truth, leads to some results, but with many problems, difficulties and no guarantees. It is precisely because of the inaccurate rules as well as what is relevant to the level of local self-government, the province, the Republic, that the system of personal acquaintances and connections has often tried to obtain the financial resources necessary to function and, most often, the mere survival of clubs, from any branch of sport. The paper of this law is how to define and pursue general interest. So through funding and co-financing of programmes and projects on an annual basis, and related to areas of general importance. It's very important that in a precise way it's defined and controlled by budgets, and I welcome that, that's an example. If the applicant of a specific programme fails to comply with the deadlines and programmes provided for by the contract and does not justify the financial report, the ministry has the mechanisms to terminate the contract. A major controversy in the sports community has also raised the issue of ownership over the assets of individual sports associations, so that in certain cases they may also move towards the demarcation of ownership and the initiation of the privatisation process. So, privatization yes, but previously we need to know what share of ownership in sports clubs there is of the state and who does the recording. All controversy should be removed. In an opening statement, the minister said clubs should not fear privatisation, that it is an option. Because of these controversys, it's important that we have an answer to the question of who decides on the privatisation of clubs, whether the government, the Ministry or the club assembly. All the misunderstandings need to be removed, because there's a lot of dust going on about privatisation, and this is the law on sports, not the Star and Partizan law. As a good example of privatisation, the former Socialist country, which had a similar organisation and organisation of sports, has undefined forms of property managed by the state. Just entering private capital into clubs in these countries has led to tangible results. As well as technology, sport must keep up with time, and laws must follow the standards imposed in sport. It's important that we protect both athletes and people who think well of sports from the criminal influence that exists there. During public debates, including today in parliament, doubts about the change in the purpose of the sports facility were raised. Although the law lays down the strictest procedure in which a change of purpose may occur under the general urban plan, I believe that this part should be defined more precisely in order to remove all doubts. As the minister said, even we at the Democratic Party don't want tomorrow in a place designed to build a nice stadium, or where there's a nice stadium, a shopping mall pops up. During today's presentation, I've said it's very important to invest in top-notch sports. Now I speak as an educational worker. I work in high school and, indeed, crucial for both the state and society is to invest in sports. In the era of vice and disturbed values it is necessary to direct young people from the street to sports grounds. If we don't offer young people sports as an alternative, like a branch they're going to catch up to, I'm sure they'll get hold of another branch, but I'm afraid in most cases it'll be street and crime. So sport is very important, because it has both an educational and a health dimension. They are both responsible for state and society, not only because they have to enable young people to develop and advance properly through sport, but also have to motivate them to adopt healthy lifestyles, that the values that sport promotes apply in all areas of social and social integration. The situation in our school sport, to be open, is not on such a model level because in inadequate conditions, in some schools, sports activities are performed. Some schools in rural areas don't have sports halls at all. The example works, in the municipality where I live, which is the municipality of Zvecan in Kosovo and Metohija, there is a high school with a large number of students, which has no sports hall at all. We can accept that fact because it's an old school, which didn't have as many students as it is today. But what I cannot accept is the municipality of Zvecan from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija in 2009 received sixteen million for the renovation of this school; the school was renovated, another floor was upgraded and no sports hall was built again. It's already something that looks like bad practice. I must support my colleague Milan Vukkovic's proposal for a school sport strategy. And it's very important that you accepted it. With this in mind, I will monitor the adoption of sublegal acts and how the conditions and criteria for defining and organising school sports will be explained. It's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education and then I'll have concrete suggestions. I call on the representatives of the Youth and Sport Ministry to define more precisely the provisions that have caused controversy and shared opinions in the sports community, precisely because of these controversys, so that this significant area of social life in Serbia is better regulated. Democratic Party MPs will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50995	I give my word to the People's MP, Miroslava Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50996	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the reasons why they conditioned us to discuss today the draft new law on sports is numerous. This is the first of four priorities of the Youth and Sports Ministry. Because of the limitations of the existing law, which was passed back in 1996, it was necessary to make a modern approach to the overall and broad problem that exists today in sport. This approach is manifested in clearly defined objectives and compliance with standards, i.e. EU Charters and the International Olympic Committee. Some of the objectives that would have to be achieved by implementing the future sport law are certainly: defining the pyramidal structure of sport; adopting, as well as implementing the strategy for the development of sports in the Republic of Serbia; controlling the spending of financial resources; developing and improving school sports and school competition systems; and preventing negative phenomena in sport. The impact on the draft of this law certainly had changed norms in domestic legislation, as well as the need to introduce various forms of control in the existing way of funding. The most important newspaper that the law adopts is: defining the rights and obligations of all entities in sport; protecting the rights of athletes, where the general interest is elaborated, starting with the signing of the contract, through various types of insurance and health care, all the way to protection from any kind of discrimination of athletes; the obligation of licensing in sport or obtaining a license to work, and I consider this to be of particular importance, because it is the only guarantee that in the future there will be no unprofessional work, both on sports grounds, starting from coaches all the way to medical staff; the public calls for the delivery of a funding programme, which I consider to be of great importance, because there is no possibility of funding all sports activities from the republican budget, i.e. from the budget of local self-government, only this kind of approach allows to determine the priorities of general importance of decision-making of support and funding of certainprojects. This bill puts a serious emphasis on sports facilities. In this direction, I believe that a significant role will play a planned record of the assets of sports organisations, in order to represent not only a good database, but also to enable their transparency, i.e. insight into the ownership structure of each individual sport organisation, i.e. its assets. The registration of sports facilities over the next year will determine who manages the facilities, which owns them and what percentage they are in, so they will be able to make estimates of the structure of the capital. This will create a good basis for possible privatisation in the future, which will be only optional and not necessarily mandatory activity, and the government of the Republic of Serbia would give consent. All of this is necessary, because today, unfortunately, in Serbia, we have many sports facilities that are failing, which are neither known nor maintained, nor who is investing in them. Some believe that they should be concerned about the state today, but we think that the state, or this parliament, should pass, long or short laws, as we are told here today, but good and quality laws, which will regulate this area and we should worry about the implementation and implementation of the law. I think it is a good thing that Article 190 leaves the possibility that, because of the social importance, tradition and popularity of a sports organisation, the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government may remain in power. Article 148 defines the concept of sports facilities of national importance, which is determined by the Government, and they cannot be the subject of privatisation. The very important segment of this law speaks of school sport as organised teaching and extracurricular activities in the field of physical education, which includes school competitions. Here are the sports activities of students and their sports competitions. It is also important to say that school halls and terrains are school facilities that are the priority of using school classes and extracurricular sports activities compared to recreational activities of persons outside the school. This law encourages people with disabilities to, on the one hand, make a greater contribution to this sensitive population, and on the other hand, society commits itself to creating as many opportunities as possible for the mass organization and integration of this population at both local and state level. Perhaps this is an opportunity to express my satisfaction over what has been done to improve the conditions for developing school and recreational sports in Loznica, from which I come. Two swimming pools have been built for three years, numerous school playgrounds, and at the end of the course there are final work on tennis courts, a modern trim track with all accompanying facilities. So, conditions for supporting some future talents, but also for those who want to devote part of their free time to recreation and a healthy way of living in our city. I believe that this law cannot solve all the problems that have arisen and accumulated in sport, but it is certainly a major step forward, which will speed up the improvement of sports and activities related to it at all levels, starting from school, through recreational, all the way to professional, all with the aim of developing sports and providing better conditions for achieving the top results of our athletes, both in team and in individual sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50997	Thank you. I give my word to MP Žiki Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50998	Dear Madam Chairman, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that I am only recently a member of the Sports Committee and to express my satisfaction with the way this committee works, it works and because there is not a single form of politics in that committee. This has been contributed, of course, by the Ministry and by the minister himself, who is regularly in the sessions and, as far as I can see, has good communication with the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Vukkovic. I think it's a signal that all other committees, more or less, need to function. My colleague just said that young people should be offered sports as an alternative. That is true, but not only as an alternative, but as a prevention, because sport is the only means, with what you wear from home and what you get from school, against all the bad things that the street carries. I am pleased that after a few years of announcement, after years of public debate, we have the opportunity to talk in parliament and finally adopt the law on sport, one system law. We have had a long public debate, the law has not been done in haste, and it does not take place quickly and therefore represents a transparent process, for itself, of course, in accordance with European standards, and shows the state's desire to deal more seriously and quality with this matter. We're all aware that it's hard to reconcile all interests in all sports. If you do not know, 96 sports there are and it is really hard in one such document to reconcile everyone's interests. I will remind you, I will pass on a statement from the Committee Minister to one absurd - that we had a request from large clubs, which was met by the people who made this law, the request of a large club to install in this law an unfettered internship for footballers because they play on Sundays! It should be pointed out, among other things, that this law defines the rights and obligations of entities in the field of sport, protects the general interest, but also the rights of athletes, regulates privatisation in the field of sport, defines the system of sports and all organizational forms in sport. It is positive that special attention is paid to the work of the Sports Council, especially in the country where we live, in which we have lived during these twenty years, although, when it comes to violence in sport, it is much more a matter of the prosecution and the police, and only then a question of sports and sports workers. It's the same case with the doping issue. It is one of the major problems not only of our countries, but of other countries, both in the environment and beyond, and there is also an even more energetic state reaction, especially the interior ministry. What is positive and what needs to be pointed out is that in the clubs, as my colleagues have already said, they cannot be convicted persons. I will remind only of various Spasojevics, Arkans and the like, who kept footballers in a slave-owned relationship, who staged games and laundered money across clubs. It's certainly something that, unfortunately, continues to a lesser extent today, but certainly something that this country has to deal with in the near future. We have such absurdity that everyone who deals with sports, especially football, who is the most famous and widespread, knows that very often clubs are in a situation that judges have to pay to play fair. When you look that, on the other hand, you have a movie arrest as big as Dragan Jajic, then it's clear to everyone what kind of country we live in. The problem of expert supervision is also important and positive is that this law deals with this topic. Discussing children for a better result is not something that lasts since yesterday, and it is certainly not easy to solve this problem. That, of course, is what the inspection issue is all about. So far they may have been, we could say, not sufficiently clear criteria when it comes to standards and working conditions in which young people train and compete. There is simply a need to draw a line below which can no longer go. The big problem is, too, the issue of hyperproduction of clubs. I assume you'll agree with me, Madam Minister, is a particular problem at the local level. There is also a need to form standards and, of course, there is expected to be the largest aid from the ministry, especially when it comes to the statutes of clubs, where we also had absurd situations: let's say, clubs are created just to get some subsidies or, say, even more absurd ideas, to open up some restaurant or bar. Of course, this law also introduces some positive changes when it comes to these problems. The objection that the bill is large for me is meaningless and I feel that such arguments should not even be dealt with. The remark that may be standing is that school sport is not defined by this law, which is a shame, especially when it comes to school facilities. The law is, like any other, living matter, subject to change. What is positive and what should be commended is that we should continue to invest when it comes to disabled people and their sports. The particular chapter of this law, which may have caused the biggest controversy in the public, is the necessity of clear ownership transformation, primarily because of responsibility, but of course because of the increased development of sports clubs and societies. There are high expectations, but there are fears of privatisation in sports. Special care is shown by small clubs. I believe that this is mainly due to insufficient information, but also to a tendencyal manipulation of certain political factors. The law itself denies all arbitrary and casual interpretations. However, I agree that there is some anxiety, as the privatisation process is entrusted to the Privatisation Agency, which has little experience in privatising sports clubs. The difficult situation is, in any case, the perception of citizens who have come from, we must say, not very successful privatisations, whose effects citizens are suffering today. It is necessary to exclude from this process objects and land that are nationalised, which have real owners, whose property, hopefully, will be subject to the restitution law, which we believe will finally be passed. This law, like many others adopted by this assembly, shows that the European Union is increasingly mental, not geographical. That is why the Serbian Renewal Movement MPs will support this law and we call on all their colleagues, including members of the opposition, to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u50999	Thank you. National MP Elizabeth Paunovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51000	Dear Presidents, distinguished Madam Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, we have before us a proposal for a law on sport, which deals in an integrated and comprehensive way with sports. I'd have to comment first on the objections made about the scope of the law. I think it's much more important that the law deals in a comprehensive way with a truly complex matter, because sport is part of life in a number of aspects, and it's less important whether the volume of the law is larger or smaller, so I really don't think these remarks stand. I would especially point to two aspects from which, essentially for the first time, we have access to sports, which is to enable a wide-ranging approach ("sports for all"), where social cohesion is contributed, which is very important, especially today when we have very inadequate, intolerant and violent behaviour, in connection with sports or sports events. By promoting sports and making everyone equally available through sports activities, it is possible for young children, young people, and later also with top athletes, and then with their fans, to promote a tolerance and above all human and normal, civilized approach to sport. Otherwise, sport loses its meaning. In addition, as a doctor, I would like to point out another aspect of the law that first deals with sports regulation, which is a health aspect, through the protection of the health of athletes. Not just athletes, but all those who are involved in sports, from children, through amateur sports, to top-notch sports, which I think is very important. On the other hand, the minister quoted the president of the International Olympic Committee as saying. The gentleman is absolutely right; when the minister in charge of sports is doing his job properly and the area is being regulated properly, which, in any case, was done by Minister Samardzic Markovic, then the health minister has much less to do and easier to do his job. As a doctor, I think it's very important. I am particularly pleased that the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the European Union's approach to public health in all policies are insisting. This is really one real approach, as other areas do and promote health in the right way. So as a doctor, it is particularly important that for the first time, by giving away sport and giving equal opportunities for all of this is promoted, and on the other hand, medical examinations and general and special health skills are introduced. The Institute of Sports and Medicine Sports is decidedly getting its place. Perhaps in the future we should consider that this place, especially this section of sports medicine, should find its more precise place in the health care system. But in any case, since the sublegal act is passed by the minister responsible for sports and the minister responsible for health, it is another step towards promoting the principles of health in all policies. Perhaps in the future and place of the Institute of Sports and Medical Sports will be better determined in a better way, as an institution that promotes an active preventive attitude towards health. I will vote for this law, our parliamentary group will vote and I call on all fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this law. The bill is good and promotes what are the universal values that sport should promote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51001	I thank my colleague, Elizabeth Paunovic, and I give my word to MP Chikiriz Mirk.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51002	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Ministers, MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, our political party, as a correct and constructive coalition partner, followed a complete course of making a significant, system-based law on sport, but also media articles on the law. Somehow, a picture was created in public, which we are all aware of, was approximately expected from this law to regulate the status primarily of football clubs Red Star and Partizan, to determine whose property is and, more or less, to determine the owner. Of course it's not the task of this law. The law created a normative environment and a normative framework for the comprehensive development of sports at our country level, from school age to professional sport. In doing so, I appreciate the discussions of my fellow opposition colleagues, but I expected something that we haven't seen, and we're pleased with this law, that they're telling us and that there's a valid argument behind it. For what? I think that we have all witnessed that we, regardless of the correctness and constructiveness, have been able to often dispute many members of the law or the legal provisions of many ministers and not be our personal attitude towards the minister, the ministry, etc., but rather the desire to come out of this National Assembly as much as possible. However, by following a public debate and analysing all the provisions of the law on sports, we can say that this is a modern, comprehensive and good legislative proposal, because it regulates everything that needs to be regulated and does not touch everything that should not be touched. We all thought about privatisation and what the final solution would be, because there were more options, however, the law respected other laws, so that it would be in line with the Constitution and the legal system, above all with the Privatisation Act, and started in order, if someone wanted to enter the privatisation process, and it cannot be mandatory, because most of the sports organisations and clubs rest on one other basis – on the citizens' association, on enthusiasm. Sports, whether we see it as a top-notch sport and watch only top-notch athletes... It seems to me that the law deals elegantly with the sport that all citizens are engaged in, from school to school. In the Sports Development Strategy, the Ministry gave a clear vision of how it sees the development of sports from 2009 to 2013 and the law is only one finale of the strategy. Surely a new strategy for sport development will be adopted after 2013, in accordance with the situation at hand. Dear colleagues mentioned the state of sports facilities, the terrain, the state of health of the nation, etc., but this was about the objection that it was all, which is why the situation is what it is, and we are all aware of it... The ministry carried out the necessary analyses, and before the MPs described the situation in the Sports Development Strategy. It seems to me that responsibility for the inherited situation cannot be on the one who inherits the situation, but on all previous ministries, governments, etc. The situation is what it is. Is he okay? It's not. Are the top results of our athletes who, in poor conditions of preparation, are the fruits of enthusiasm to achieve the highest results? Most of the time, yes. Here the law no longer leaves everything to enthusiasm, but systemically regulates everything from club status, from privatisation, from surveillance. For the first time, the Institute of Sports Inspectors is introduced, from health insurance, regular health checks, funding, controls, etc. Indeed, we from the Serbian Renewal Movement, which perhaps sometimes we like to find something that doesn't stand, in this law we couldn't find something that would suffer a serious complaint. That is why Serbian Renewal Movement MPs will vote in favour of the legislative proposal, with the Latin "Menz Sana and corpore sano" ("In a healthy body of a healthy spirit"). Finally, to say one joke, not to be like the time of Tito Yugoslavia, when a famous official attended a sports competition, he eventually welcomed them with the words: “I welcome you all with the Latin sensation of Veni, see, shout, what they will say – in a healthy body a healthy spirit.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51003	I give my word to my colleague Tijana Nikolic. (Not present. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word. He's not present. ) The People's MP Gordana Komic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51004	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in these few minutes, I'd like to share three evaluations and two questions as to the content of the Sport Law proposal, which we're talking about right now. The first assessment refers to the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Minister Snezana Samardzic Markovic, and this assessment concerns my sincere regret that the excellent results that this ministry has in sectors for which it is not often enough reach the public, and apparently also to us MPs. That assessment is that even when we have results, it's as if we're ashamed of the good news and the results, because they seem insufficient and small to us, because it seems like someone's going to be very suspicious to see if it really is, and it is. Which is why I am grateful to the minister that at least part of the data on what the Ministry has done has been sharing with us, with the desire that all the ministries in which there are good results speak. Our mentality tends to believe only in bad news and that in the abundance of bad news, we feel that the good news doesn't exist at all. Therefore, my assessment that the ministries that really have results, which have evidence relative to the previous period, was the difference between the two governments or the ten-year gap, however, should provide evidence, as some in Serbia are slightly better off than some of the ministry's results. If we just try, it's my estimate, that with measure and constant checking, we still list good results, which, I repeat, the Youth and Sports Ministry has, we'll see that it's so much easier to find energy to solve things and where there's no results and where there's only bad news. The second assessment I want to share with you is about passing the law. The proposal for a law on sports, as we have heard, as we have testified, some of us have participated in some stages of the adoption of this law, has been passed, by many estimates, for too long. He was supposed to be in the process by now, and he wasn't. When it comes to the adoption of a law that takes too long before it enters the procedure of parliament, there are two reasons why this is happening: either there is no political will to pass the law or someone who does a job for which he is paid and the competent does not do his job. For both estimates, I have evidence, since at this very session we are discussing the social protection law, which has waited twenty years for political will, political consent and agreement to be made. We're still waiting for such political will, consent and agreement on, for example. The law on the restitution or law on the selection of MPs, which would clearly define the mandate of the MP, plays the role of this house of citizens of Serbia, in which we represent them and in their interest we should work. So that's one of the reasons and that's the context of the law that there must be, too, dialogue, because there's good news and bad news that can be shared. When someone doesn't do the job they're paid for, so there's no law or sublaw, we're also testifying, and that's the state for which I've asked the parliamentary question, because once the law is passed, it can't be applied because there are no sublegal acts. So, what's the problem with bringing in a sublegal act, who doesn't do his job? We have testified here, too, that MPs say that the previous Sport Act has never been applied, whenever it has been brought in and however it has been brought in and as much as it is working or not. Why? Because there were no sublegal acts. What do I estimate is that there is no political will, no agreement, no consent or knowledge of how political consent is achieved or someone is not doing their job? It is an impression in the public of Serbia that we are either not making enough good laws or that good laws, once passed, are not applied or applied selectively, which contributes to the overall growth of social injustice. The third assessment I want to share with you is an assessment of the course of lawmaking and my application by the Ministers for Sport and Youth and other Ministers, whether or not they exist at the moment, whether they exist or not in a few days, about the way in which the amendments and amendments of the law or the new law are discussed with the MPs at committee meetings or here at the tide. And with the representatives of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment and with the representatives of this ministry, I had a misunderstanding on issues I failed to get an answer when it comes to amendments and amendments to the law. I repeat my request to everyone to prepare an answer to the question, because I will not give up the question, whether it's a member of the board or not, and not at the tide. The question is, when amendments and amendments to the law, then the Government's representative must give us a clear, summary and brief answer – what happened in applying what requires changes and additions? It's not a question that can be left without an answer when any MP asks. Another kind of question, which I will not give up on committees and plenary, is that when I ask, hypothetically – the law you propose has come into force and what is happening, explain the procedure to me, explain to me the consequences of this member's life and the work of a man in Serbia, man or woman, organisation, sector, city, business society, association, whatever you want. A representative of the government must know the answer to such a question. I have asked two questions of this kind on the Committee and, unfortunately, I have lost my answer, and it concerns the provisions of the Law on Sports, those of which there is suspiciousness, regarding the recording of assets and the recording of capital. So, who records the property, who does it? Second, when is the capital recorded? Does the net amount of capital or capital with debts, banks, loans and all others be recorded? The difference is huge. No member of the law says that. The answer – it will be in the sublaw, not good enough. Before we accept that the law on sports is necessary and that we must regulate the situation in the sector, we must have a clear answer from the government representatives, which everyone in Serbia understands. In this regard, why do I insist on answering these two questions, asked once when amending and supplementing the law, the second time when a new law is passed, as in the case of a proposal for a law on sport? Because we exist, we as the legislative body of Serbia, and the government, the ministry and courts, so that one of these would benefit Serbia. All the talk about how it can't be explained, that it's very complicated, all that mystery about law enforcement has to stop once. There are two ways to stop it – either to agree for ourselves that it is bad for all of us or not to give up on asking us all for a clear, summary, crystal clear answer, without mystification of what's going on; the law on sport came into effect yesterday at noon, for example, what happens Wednesday with a sports organization, a sports club, what happens where and by what procedure. The law on sports regulates one of the areas that has, metaphorically speaking, and I hope that none of those who are directly engaged in sports will take it as an insult because it is not an insult, it has elements of chaos and the need to settle, that everyone knows their rights and obligations is undeniable. Most of the provisions that are in front of us in a very good way, if we are still given additional answers, are governed by an important area, an important sector in society, which, for example, refers to slightly smaller citizens than the Family Law. Family law applies to all citizens; it is a "small constitution" in laws. The law on sports is the following by, to put it this way, the number of users, or those to which the provisions should apply. For all the networks that the sport law produces, what is called – types of sports (school sport, military sport, police sport, recreational sport, male sport, women sport, high school sport, whatever you want), it is not logical to make laws and regulations about the types of sports. It is either a sport law or not a sport law, but its essential network feature is such that it requires the co-operation of other ministries directly in charge of those areas. With that in mind, just one illustration and one last question, which I hope the minister will give us an answer, which concerns the status of female sports. The theme is not appropriate. I would talk about the status of a woman's sport and if it wasn't for tomorrow March 8th, which I congratulate all of us heartily, because a lot of women were killed because some women, that we today have the right to vote and that our colleagues, friends, consider our friends natural that we sit in benches together with you, which, not a hundred years ago, but 50 years ago, was completely unimaginable. It's not appropriate, it's a coincidence. I'd ask this question even if it wasn't for March 8th. Women's sport status. Because it's an area where there are additional problems and when you sort out everything there is to do with sport law in various sectors. When I say the status of a woman's sport, I don't just mean whether they're equal in front of the provisions of this law, clubs, or types of sports that are exclusively women's, only male, if at all there are, what I suspect, or whether the eye that's funded is equally open for men or women's sport, and whether the promotion in our society that this law allows in sports sectors is such that we're equal to the law, if we're women who want to play sports or if we're men who want to play sports... In that language that is usually said, when these laws are at issue, it would be the gender sensitivity of the provisions of the law. Does the law distinguish the models for women in the area and for men in the area? I want to believe that if there are such provisions or if there are such tendencies in society, we will work together to reduce or remove them, because I believe that women and men must have a completely equal chance of access to all the resources that enables and opens up the sport law. As you noticed, I wasn't talking about the last members, but in the context in which the law is passed, because I consider it, and that's my personal assessment, always much more important than the provision that can be considered, changed by amendments, rewritten, etc. I tried to get through these few minutes and ministers and my colleagues to the MPs and, of course, to bring the public of Serbia closer to what a good law is to be passed in one abandoned area, how political will, agreement and agreement are being reached, what we could do and what we will do in the future to dialogue with the political agreement on us missing laws, which have been done long enough, come before and in what way, in the interest of all, and MPs of the opposition and MPs of the ruling majority, the government, and above all the population in Serbia, we reach an agreement on what answers, to which issues, the government must give. To go back to closing the first sentence. And this ministry and other ministries have a lot of good news, a lot of good results. I would ask the minister, because, not by chance again, but because it's true, women are usually braver to say things that the environment doesn't tolerate. The environment in Serbia does not tolerate being told that there is good news, that there are good people who work a lot, that there is potential in Serbia, that we can, if only people in public affairs do much more. I think a list of good results from your ministry would do to promote sports just as much as good provisions and good answers, and, of course, joint work in the future on the provisions that cause the most public interest. I will give my voice to this law in principle and I will take part in the debate in particular. I would like the sport law to be another stone in the mosaic that we are promoting the joint work of all of us in the Assembly, mutual political communication between the executive bodies, i.e. the government and us, and most of all to pass a law that will bring much good to the citizens of Serbia, both women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51005	I thank Vice President Gordani Komic. I give my word to Minister Samardzic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51006	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs Comic, first of all, thank you for these comments regarding the first assessment, and this is insufficiently the presence of good news in our public. Perhaps you have been able to come from the overall public appearances that I am sure in frustration and with other colleagues, to see and state when I often publicly complain because certain destructive elements, I will say in this case, regarding sports, even hooligans, have as much free publicity as they want and space in the media as their souls want, while, for example, I am a witness as president of the Youth Fund, four thousand young talents in Serbia, which have been scholarshipd by the state since 2008 until today, have no space in our media at all. For that one must fight further, further efforts must be made, while, unfortunately, some destructive elements have as much space as they want. In that name, of course, I will not abuse or use this esteemed home, but I will go straight to the answers, more or less, to your questions. Before that, I just want to say, since you have been commenting on the issue of sublaws, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has brought in seven sublegal acts related to the applicable law, in an attempt to improve at least what we have as a framework and legal form in favour of sport while the applicable law is in force. Justice works, I'll tell you that at the Sports Council, which the Ministry of Youth and Sports established as an informal body before the law was passed, and after the law was passed, it will become an institutional mechanism, we've already formed the elements of a group that will deal with the sublegal acts of the moment when this law is passed, because we believe that they should improve the situation in sport along with the law. I'm going to mention the National Sports Council one more time, since there was talk here about the Sports Development Strategy. When I became a minister I found such a state that we had never had in previous history anywhere, but unfortunately nowhere... We wanted to have at least a reference to some strategy for the development of sports that was brought in, perhaps, at some point in our distant past, even if it was in the past and the last century. Unfortunately, there was no strategy to develop sports. The Ministry did the pioneering work. I think it's our job and it doesn't take a special medal to win. However, I will tell you that when this law was passed, we planned to immediately launch a new strategy, which will be valid since 2013. I have no ambition to bring it as a minister of sports, because the current strategy will be valid until 2013. There's a lot of work to be done. However, what I want is to prepare the ground in a broad consultation debate with a future minister, so that when she or he comes after the next term, she does not find the taboo of the race, but rather the number of data she can then take into account, so use or reject. It's important that we do this job, so we don't have a situation like I did, unfortunately. Let me apologize to you on behalf of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for not getting an answer, adequate enough, as you thought. It is an opportunity to answer these very specific and direct questions now. Before that, let me tell you that, in fact, the Ministry of Youth and Sports... Or, to illustrate how seriously I take this home I will tell you that the Anti-Corruption Strategy was brought, as you know, back in 2004. Under the strategy brought by this home, privatisation of clubs is seen as part of the fight against corruption in sports. I'm taking the opportunity to tell you that we take this very seriously, and that's why, among other things, we have introduced the elements of privatisation into this law. You asked for records and who recorded them and what they recorded. Most things are said in article 169. I'll give you a concrete answer. Before that, I'd just like to tell you that this recording job that's supposed to be done by the Youth and Sports Ministry. I'll tell you that it's from the Ministry's point of view, which in the Sports Department has employees, along with the secretary and assistant, a total of 11 people, for 96 city and sports alliances and about 16,000 clubs, so we're 11 employees, and that's an additional force on the villa for us. If you believe that the Ministry is doing this, or requires in law these elements of the record, out of anger, I will immediately confirm that it is not, but out of necessity. Here, and for what purposes: that it is fortunate that we have found such a condition that someone has done this job before us, I will not name anyone, but there are competent institutions who unfortunately have not done this job, either because of a small number of employees, and a large number of jobs, for any other reason... But we have found such a state where there is no accurate and accurate record of what the property of a club is. There are records of clubs. There you were, Mr. Pelevic, quite right. However, we have no record of these elements of property. The illustrations work, the Ministry began to produce an interactive database on the state of sport infrastructure. No one made us bound by any legal act, of course, but we felt it was the duty and the job of a ministry to do so. We've been working on this for two and a half years, and not even today from local self-government we can get all the elements we should have for this kind of record because, believe it or not, in many local self-governments and today there are objects that don't even have a license, and yet they are used. We wanted to have a comprehensive database and before this law was passed because the law also requires the categorisation of objects (here it is mentioned, the Pejica People's MP mentioned it), of which they are of national interest, which are of regional interest, and which, possibly of local interest, will therefore be allocated budget funds for their maintenance. Now, the answer to who records it. So it's the Ministry. It will, of course, have this kind of knowledge and the Republic Property Directorate, which today does not have this kind of knowledge. If there were, it would help us greatly in the model of how the most efficient and the best work of privatisation is done. So, the Ministry is recording. Does he record gross balance issues or not? I'll tell you, yes. We're looking for a financial report. Article 169 lists what we want to have; among other things, the gross balance in the financial report on the total assets. For other elements, we can do it later, so I don't hold back the MPs. I'm taking the opportunity to say about women's sports, thank you for asking that question, I've been waiting, because maybe it's not right for the minister, the other female minister, to be in some way a female chauvinist in sports. I'll tell you how much we've done in practice, along with the Olympic Committee and their women's sports department, and of course with many others. However, in the law itself, under one, we took great care of the native sensitivity of the language. Please note that we have tried everywhere to make that sensitivity feel. Two, in Article 4, where we talk about equality, we especially make sure that this equality applies, as we have said, to persons with disabilities. Of course, men too, if they feel unequal to women, and of course women, who should be equally equal in our society. Let me also mention, in Article 114, which defines the general interest, under specific programmes (that is, point 12) women in sports are mentioned. Of course, children and athletes with disabilities are mentioned. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 134 and 137, where rural and local general interests are defined, the issues of women's sport are even the first two points; so the second point is both in local self-government and in general interest at the level of the province. So we tried to have this kind of mild positive discrimination; not excessively, because I remain in the position that equality is the first principle and that we shouldn't even be too apostrophetic about these elements, just give them a little more space in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51007	I thank the minister. I give my word to MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51008	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in the debate and in the context of the proposal for a law on sports, heard a lot – and how this will help children deal with sports and how the law will finally apply to sport. A few questions must indeed be asked to those who propose this law because, firstly, the group that proposes this law has not shown in any privatisation until now that it wants to be by law in Serbia, justly and without robbery, without kidnapping, without privilege. The question is, can we believe it's going to be like that in sports? A team before what is most interesting in the property of this law, which concerns several clubs, two of which above all, is certainly a problem to be seriously discussed, not only from the level of one political party, one ruling majority, but from the level of interest of all Serbian citizens. The question arises here – why is only a year and a half of the amendment of the Law on Associations, which applies exclusively to sports, so that all other associations in the Republic of Serbia are subject to one rule of privatisation, while sports associations and alliances are subject to a completely different regime? I'm not asking a question here which model is better, but only does it violate the constitutional principle of equality before the law for the same types of legal persons? In the reasons, no explanation was provided for such a derogation, although this would be logical given that there were no essential objections or problems with the application of the privatisation model of the Association Act. If there were no provisions of these Articles between 169 and 182 of the law, and to the sports organisations, Article 2(2) would have been, according to Article 2(2). The Association Act, applied the privatisation regime of the Association Act. The privatisation regime of the Sport Law proposal is inconclusive, vague, inconsistencies, and in certain parts is the opposite of the nature of the sport organization. This applies both to the process of recording the organisation's assets in the field of sport and to the privatisation process itself. A simple example, in Article 169(1) of the proposal, requires that the obligation to register assets also have sports centres. However, if you try to find what is meant by the bill, you can't find it, either in Article 3 that defines the concepts, or in Article 110 that regulates institutions and companies in relation to sport, or in Article 146 that regulates the types of sports facilities. Organisations listed in Article 169(1) The proposal is not all sports organisations that exist; for example, professional associations in the field of sports are not included in the youth and sports register. According to Article 169(1), the requirements of registration are, therefore, subject to the examination of the status of the property and to organisations which, according to their registration, are exclusively private. Namely, the concept of a sports organisation in the current Sport Act includes sports organisations as associations and sports organisations as companies. How, for example, will property be questioned over a club that is registered as a stock company and owns its own? Such an approach calls into question the constitutional provision on the non-violence of private property, which is also guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. The provision of Article 169, when connected with Article 170(2), forces the club owner to prove that the club is his, although according to the Business Society Act, it is not disputed. According to Article 169(1), the purpose of filing a registration is that the Ministry of Youth and Sports shall establish the parent records and make the registration. What kind of records are also subject to the registration, it is not clear, especially since Article 172 provides that the function of the Ministry is to record, in the application procedure, the data on the entity of recording and on the sports facilities it uses. So there's no birth records and registrations. The planned solution becomes unclear when it comes to the fact that the registration of sports organisations should be conducted by the APR in the future, and that the parent records, which include the records of sports facilities, are run by the University of Sport and Medicine of the Republic of Serbia. This is a member of the 63rd and Art. Article 107(2) of the proposal. What's this really about? The law on sports regulates very serious matter, it's not just property. So you don't think we could fall for the story of getting rid of whose stadium and the area around the stadium, even though the reason for the law is really just that. It's that a whole social branch of life, from the moment a child walks to a deep age, should fall under someone's influence. You can praise your efforts here in the field of sports, you can say how you've done everything, and then, as you present the bill, ask us to push ahead for a bigger budget for the Youth and Sports Ministry. Then what's your job? You, at the government session, nod each other's heads, get along, negotiate, and beg the MPs here to provide more resources for your ministry. The Minister of Youth and Sports, who is not satisfied with the budget, resigns because it is not respected, firstly, his right to have a budget worthy of representing youth and sports, and secondly, the right of youth and sports to have someone who cares for them and who doesn't care about financial resources to take care of them. Kids can't strike, athletes can't strike. I don't know if you know how many of them don't receive food or obligations from the contract, how many of them are exposed to managers who have neither soul nor heart, have only money; how many of them get a plane ticket and go on a journey into the unknown, so they return completely disappointed; how many of them don't get disputes in Serbia and get disputes in Europe, because in Europe the rules are rigorous, and no one can break them, nor the one who is at will of power, nor the one who doesn't. There's one basic thing you haven't solved, and it's the behavior of sports. As much as you try to welcome the athletes who win medals at night, that's your reputation in the eyes of Serbian citizens, because those who don't care about sports are waiting for them. You didn't fight for a man to be able to go to a sports event with his children, to be a sports event, to participate in the stands and those who are seven to 77 years old. These stands have been turned into a polygon for showing the lowest passions, for testing new chemical resources. Of course, when it comes to some victory and one of our athletes or clubs deserves success, wins a medal, wins a place, there you are among the first, almost like you were running, like you were jumping, and you were kicking the ball, and you were jumping into the pool. When it turns out that it's not well organized and that many sports have no more and that our children don't grow up at all like we did, along with a body education society, with various amateur clubs where nothing cost you anything but training and giving you one more sandwich, and in the family it was at least one meal more; when we remind you that you don't even have a physical education anymore, that nobody cares anymore; when we remind you that whoever wants a top sport in that sport should invest, out of that sport, that it benefits... And the state should not benefit from what it invests in its children to deal with sports, the state is of great benefit if those children are healthy. Of course, there's no military service anymore, so we won't even have the details of how many children are capable of the military, and how much they aren't, but you know very well how they've fallen down the criteria for recruiting children into the army just because the children were unprepared. Just as basic school criteria fall to the school of knowledge that children show, that at least someone would finish, or that teachers wouldn't be beaten, even by students, because they gave a bad grade. There's a lot that's changed worse in this society. Even those with good intentions participate, consciously or unconsciously. Even those who run children, youth, sport, culture knowingly or unconsciously participate in this, help create in our society some new models, patterns of behavior, some new patterns, something that we all strive for, and that no longer has anything to do with our origins, our qualities, or our codes, we introduce completely new codes. Just as college will remain a dreamy place for poor children, soon sport will become just a dreamy place for children who have no money. Where is the role of state and society? Apparently, she's halfway there, as soon as you tell us here you don't have enough funds for your ministry. No agriculture, no youth and no sport... Where's that money, where's that money from the budget if there's no money for what's vital, what else have they been fighting for? Who was so influential as to secure money from the budget, and you didn't get who you were? Are you satisfied with how you managed to fight the budget for this year? Or maybe this sport law will bring money? He won't. This law should distribute more correctly the money we allocate for sport. I'm not the one who's going to attack if you start around sports stadiums to build some buildings, I think they're huge areas and I need to use them, I just want to know who's going to build them. At what price will he get it? Will those thirty shareholders, who are now enrolled, be made available to those surfaces? Here some who represent themselves as large liberals in the area of the economy have wondered that the state did not state it. Why didn't the state take over first? Maybe because sport would pass as well as many companies that the state has taken into its own hands, which we will soon talk about, again, through the ministries that are in your party. Everything the state takes into its own hands, it's meant to fail in this country. The ordinary world thinks -- here's the rescue, cancels the state's privatisation, here's the final rescue, now the state will worry about it. Then after a month, it turns out that the state wasn't thinking about it, but just wanted to calm down the strike, to have the minister show up and say he's busy now, that there's no crime, that the privatisation was suspicious, and that's over 90%. Will our children run faster after this sport law is passed? No, they're not. They're malnourished. Parents cannot take care of them enough, even their physical appearance and their health. State's out of the way. We listen to the Prime Minister who says it's all private business. The countries that invented liberal capitalism today don't behave as harshly as we do, or at least they don't hide behind a shield called liberal capitalism. It's all private. I don't care if 200,000 people are out of work, that's what the privates fired. Since they come to the burden of the state, which the state didn't care about, I guess nobody cares. I want you to know that this law does not make any changes and that it is not only brought in to be brought in. If there were more laws for obtaining EU candidate status, this law may not have been necessary, and if someone urgently needs facilities used by sports clubs, then you have found a time when this law will be passed. Now it's gonna open up to them. They took part in writing this law, and they know very well how they're going to do it. This may be the fate of over 90% of the laws passed in this assembly since 2001, so that they are written by those who want to exploit them until they are changed, "until the Vlachs can figure it out". So, from the moment this law comes into force, you'll see the vultures gathering around the prey and watching them take away the prey. That's why our stadiums are empty, so no one in the open space, where there used to be 60,000 or 70,000 viewers, except once a year, is interested in sports. So don't take your kids, I guarantee you don't take your kids to sports, even though you're sitting in that box, but I don't think the lodges are the safest place for sports. Believe me, it's not safe where the ordinary world goes, we don't take children or grandchildren there, because you didn't provide it. It's your biggest failure. Will some rich guy buy a club, whether a Russian buys a club, whether it's an American, that's less important, and that's the purpose of this law. For the sport law, it is much more important to me when children will start attending sports events and when parents will start performing where their children participate. Everything else is our defeat. Everything else is not the interest of Serbian citizens, especially those who pay taxes. So, of course we can't vote for this law, although you and some others have worked very hard to prove that we're working together. But we're the only ones who can beat you, beat you with better ideas and better behavior, and that's why we don't want to look like you. Otherwise, if we were like you, you wouldn't have a single second of peace, how dissatisfied the people are with your rule. I wish you that this law does not even experience the EU's condemnation, as lately all laws do not pass the European Union filter, which is now much more careful to see what we are doing because it is preparing to ensure Serbia's candidate status, perhaps even the start of accession negotiations. If that law passes their filter, believe me, it's much easier than to pass a filter of our citizens. From now on, they will take care of every dinar they invest in the Serbian government to budget it, to make Serbia's citizens better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51009	Seventeen minutes and fifty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51010	Dear Monsieur Nikolic, I am very pleased that you have heard my application for the budget and that he has found his way to your ear and that you have thought about it. My appeal was made in principle, and I was hoping you'd be more detailed about it. Because this assembly passed the Budget Law, and this year the Ministry of Youth and Sports managed to raise the sports budget by 40%. So I've done my job in this context. I didn't complain about that aspect, but in principle I appealed for it, and I hope that such an understanding clearly finds its way to your heart. As far as sports events are concerned, things that are not done in the framework of violence in sport are not done as they should, indeed, not in the management of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, in the good part or in the government's authority, but perhaps mostly in the third branch's jurisdiction, which is the judicial authority. There's one more thing I wanted to say, some kind of misunderstanding about the question of the lowest passions. I don't know what you meant when you said that. If you've implicated those who come to sports stadiums, most of the time, they're people who cheer. For me, it's not low passions. It's for me, people who cheer for their club are the ones who love their club. Loyalty should certainly, as a form of value, be supported, and it should be distinguished by those who are hooligans and destructives. I suppose this comment of yours was about them, not honest fans, who are still in the sport. Lastly, I would be very pleased if this parliament were to determine whether our children were malnourished or fat.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51011	The word has been given by MP Filip Stojanovic, followed by MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51012	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers have recently rightfully warned that the proposal for a law on sport has been done very badly and that it has been designed to sell out these few sports clubs, as has been done with our economy. It would be better if the proposed law, as it was done, was called the law on the sale of sports clubs' assets. The Red Star notes that all of this is done by the ministry responsible for privatisation affairs and the Privatisation Agency. Even the registration of sports organizations as a trusted job was given to the Agency for Economic Registers. Our biggest football clubs are treated like factories, hotels, shops and bureaucrats. Autonomy is being taken away from clubs as citizens' associations, and the government is thus trying to undo the social and universal importance that sports societies have. This bill provides for the possibility of nationalisation of "Red Star", "Partizana" and "Vojvodine". Under the bill, it is possible for the government to decide a month after its adoption on the declaration of "Red Star" and "Partisan" for sports organisations of national importance. At that time, the government appointed a representative of social and state capital in the "Star" and "Partizan", and without its consent, it is not possible to adopt a statute. It would no longer be possible to conclude any contract, take credit, give a mortgage, nothing in clubs could be done without the government's consent. This practically means that the government can take over our two biggest football clubs, namely nationalising them, which Zoran Ivosevic, the chairman of the Red Star Legal Commission and former Serbian Supreme Court judge, warned in "Politice". As a capital representative, the minister in charge would practically name the administration, and then everything would be sold. Experts rightly warn that there is a serious danger for clubs of national interest, such as Red Star and Partizan, to be taken over by the state. In that case, the Serbian government could appoint board members, which is quite the opposite of the European Football Union and the World Football Federation rules. The European Football Union could punish us for the sport law and ban our clubs from competing on the European stage because it does not allow any political interference in sport. But why would we hide the real reasons for this anti-Serbian regime to pass one of these laws? Your bosses in Washington and Brussels are bothered by the successes of our athletes and Serbian clubs, which best promote the Republic of Serbia. Some do not respond because they are in line with their concept that Serbs must be presented as bad people. That's the only reason you want to hand over sports companies to tycoons. Then the tycoons will give you a piece of money for government officials, the Democratic Party, G 17 plus other parties. That is why I, from the Serbian Radical Party, am ordering – leave sport alone, let the athletes themselves run sports policy. Since I've been a sportsman and a sportsman for many years, and I have a number of friends in sports, especially in football, the situation is well known to me. And what is the real picture of sports in Serbia in the last 15 years, and how have our press and the media reported it? From 1999 to 2006, dozens of sports workers and several club presidents were killed. Three of the presidents of the Bezanija Football Club were killed in 1999, Petar Milosevic, in 2000, Radoslav Trlajic and in 2006 Goran Mijatovic Mita. Then two presidents of the football club Zvezdar were killed: in 1995 Miodrag Misa Niksic and in 2000 Branislav Trojanovica. In 1998, the leader of the Football Club "Zeleznik" Jusuf Jusa Bulic was killed. In 2000, the leader of the Football Club "Obilić" Željko Raznatović Arkan was killed. Again in 2000, the president of the football club "Slavija" from Novi Sad Branislav Lainovic Dugi was killed. In 2004, Serbia-Montenegro's General Secretary-General Branko Bulatovic was killed. The motives of these murders, from the source of the police, are predominance in football contributions, but also in the drug market. Murders and abductions in sports are due to major financial interests; they are billions of euros from transfers, sponsorship, advertising, TV rights sales and other sports activities. No one can even estimate the amount of money in the craft and how many individuals earn from various malfeasances. All major football clubs, as a rule on their boards, have the most powerful people from the world of politics, police, businesses, tax police and justice, and are thus protected from serious investigations and controls. The football, that is, the sports mafia, is the means of sports with crime and politics. In that chain, the most important money is the transfer of a player. According to all the laws, money from the sale of football players, measured by millions of euros, should go to the club and the other state through tax payments. However, in the absence of any control, but also by making double or triple contracts, and with all that, legal relief, money, apparently ends up in the pockets of individuals. Over the past 15 years, Serbian clubs have sold hundreds of players, or even several football teams, without any control. UEFA and FIFA allow their own regulations to regulate their own contracts, so the Football Federation and the First League community have the right to simply not have the right to control transfer contracts. It is a way for everyone to do what they want and not to suffer any legal consequences because of the violation of the law or the non-payment of taxes. The price of one transfer ranges from several hundred thousand to tens of millions of euros. To achieve a better price in sales, it is important that the player joins the team. In that case, there are various pressures and everyone is trying to get their player in, so the selectors mostly don't decide which players will be in the team. In parallel with that, there are more and more criminals who become managers, who own several of their own players, and that's our biggest clubs. Large profits from the sale of players go into the pockets of officials and suspicious persons who represent themselves as managers, through sport launder money obtained by selling drugs or other illegal businesses. The games are being staged, and through the control of the bookies the money revolves around the circle of the privileged. Sports competitions and alliances are often a front to pour money from the budget into the pockets of private faces. The sports mafia is the only one whose jobs have not been touched to this day. Why did the state authorities not investigate the allegations I was just talking about, even though their portion was long known to the public? How is it possible that all these questions are still open? The Serbian Radical Party believes the proposal for a law on sport should be withdrawn from the procedure in order to further improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51013	Nine minutes and fifteen seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51014	Thank you, Chairman. Since, on several occasions, Article 190 was referred to as some kind of interventionism and very often interpreted as a member who would possibly introduce some, as you and your fellow MPs have expressed themselves, the State Commissioners in club management, I use the opportunity to say, I am convinced that you know this, since in the National Assembly today a great knowledge of sports is demonstrated, that the current Sport Act (please once again, see Article 78) implies the possibility of the State to appoint its representatives in sports clubs and alliances, wherever there are elements of state money, capital or ownership. If this exists since 1996, and the bill only implies it, why haven't you initiated amendments to the existing Law on Sports and Article 78 of the existing Law so far, asked to be thrown out, if that bothers you so much? It is a legislative framework that exists, and in practice it has not been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51015	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. After that, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51016	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, it's good to see you today in this room, first of all, because this law is ahead of us, and it's been waiting a long time and it's been announced. I'm glad to see you, because for three years we haven't virtually seen you defend the laws in the field of sports, although this firstborn of yours today seems to have been enough to stay in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in that reconstructed government, which may be, on the one hand, your success; on the other hand, it seems to me that if one minister in the government, this so far, did and how many successes he has achieved, the government would count 17 new, unknown persons. This law is a system law, which should regulate the field of sport in all its segments and completely, in one vertical, but when you read this law well, and I belong to those who read the law regardless of how many members are present in front of us, so when you read this law well, you see that it has only one goal, which is to become an instrument to which the party G17 plus, i.e. this "cameleon", which is represented as the URS, rules and fully under the control of Serbian sport, and in particular it refers to stadiums, swimming pools and other sports facilities that, behold, are located on very attractive city building land. It's visible from more facts. I'll just list some. This law treats sport as an economic and economic activity and, secondly, this law gives the Minister of Sports extraordinary powers, in certain parts and discretionary powers. You have denied and said that it does not stand in the law, I will tell you the members of the law in which it stands. Let's talk about what discretionary powers are. These are actually situations where the minister makes decisions from case to case, not sticking to established procedures, because it does not exist in these cases, and without fully clear and precise, defined criteria. All of us here know that this discretionary right is actually a very well-tagged road leading to corruption. This government, which normally keeps talking about how it is and how it is fighting corruption, little or no in the laws that are here before us, gives great discretion to the directors, ministers. Thus, it contributes to the fight against corruption in a completely negative way, in fact, accelerates corruption, so it is no accident that Serbia is going downhill on the list of countries where corruption is present and how it is present. You state in the light of this law that you have respected the European Code of Sports Ethics and the European Sports Charter, and they say that sport must be protected from political abuse. My impression is that this law is just doing the opposite, that this influence of politics and the state leads to perfection. It's very interesting that on your ministry's website, whether it's an emergency or something else, there's no bill like the one that's before us today, but it's different. I just don't understand if it's necessary to hide something and what it is to hide. I have already said, and it is repeated by the opposition MPs claiming that the law is too large, and MPs of the ruling coalition say it has nothing to do with it, we just have to read it, it's not a problem, it's a really big law. If we compare it to similar laws in an environment that regulates the same area, it is twice as large; if you compare it with similar laws in Europe, you also see that it is very, very large. But it's not a problem, I'm undermining again, this abundance, or the abundance in this case, if it would bring some good solutions. In this case, this abundance does not contribute to these better solutions, but rather complicates very simple things. Lawyers say he's out of his mind. The concept of the law is bad, there is no such thing in the world. That's true, that's what people who are really into sports say, those who are into it and that's what many other people who are interested in this area say. Although he is so great, he explains many things, he doesn't even need to explain them that way, but that's why a lot of things were only touched by authority, some he didn't touch. That doesn't mean, Madam Minister, that I'm saying that he needs to be bigger, but I'm saying that you should have made some selection of what's important, what's less important, and what's most important. Let's see which areas only the authorities are touched, and I think they're very important. It's, first of all, a recreational sport. You say you used the European Sports Charter, the Code of Sports Ethics and the Charter of Sports for All. They state there that the role of public authorities (which always implies that there are other, secret authorities) in Serbia to take measures to ensure that all citizens have the opportunity to play sports. It's very complicated for Serbian citizens. You, me and everyone here know how big a problem is, first material, that people can deal with, then, conditions where they can deal. I think it is very important, and Serbia should go that way, it seems to me that there is nothing in this law to mention, that public authorities are encouraging the provision of opportunities to engage in sports in the workplace. I didn't find a word of it, even though I tried to find it, because I like it. It is a very good concept, which some European countries and countries worldwide use and thus do well for their citizens and for the working people, who and how well they do after sports. While I have already mentioned this recreational sport, it seems to me that it is an excessive promotion of the NGO "Sport for All" in some way and discrimination for all other NGOs involved, so it would be good to tell me what the criteria, the way and the reason to choose this NGO are. You've also commented, but I'm not going to step away from it, at the cost that you and I are going to have to take a little bit of a step into it, and I have to admit that this area and how well I know it, so it seems like we need to discuss it... You don't mention it anywhere, nor do you arrange the field of sports in the military or the police in any way. You had to do it, even if it was because of the fact that fighting sports, let's say from my sport, which is judo, a lot of medalists for this country came from clubs that are under police and military patronage. On the other hand, you're saying there's no need for you to do it, it's going to be the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Police. They say the same thing, when we commented, they said – it will be regulated by some other law. As you can see, when there's a lot of midwives, they're usually squishy kids. In fact, we skipped one area expecting who would be in charge. We also question jurisdiction when we talk about school sports, which is also in this law only the authority touched in two members, in Article 137, where you say what school sport is... There you are, I must say hello, doing the right thing, which is that for students and students who are engaged in extracurricular sports activities and sports competitions, you have predicted that you have to do reviews and determine the health skills to practice school sports. That's all that matters. I come from school and I know what kind of problems people can have if they don't have these. So the question of jurisdiction for school sport is a question we need to discuss. I think it's very important. How are you in charge of the school Olympics? How are you in charge of the school sport strategy if you're not in charge of school sports? Whether you should sit down with your colleague Obradovic, who I see has a very big problem with his school still on strike, working half an hour, and kids have to make up for Saturdays, weeks, I don't know how many days and so on... You had to sit down and discuss what to do with this area, which is a basic sport and which is actually very important for the health of the nation. Although you're told that you're not a health minister, I think you're a smart woman, who and how she knows how much sport is actually the basis for having healthy children and a healthy nation. I've come up with the results of some research, and I think it's important to say something about it. The latest research on children of school age says that children are not physically active enough, making them deformities of the spine and other disorders. Of course, it's about investigating the Republic Sports Institute that you said you ordered. It's okay, and I really think that these data are important, but then there remains an open question – if you already have all that information, do you think it's necessary to stay in two members at school sport? We have data that our children of school age, that's the age when children grow up, when it's very important to deal with sports, have spinal deformities, chest, feet. And, most importantly, it is said – if Serbia wants to have a healthy nation, it must deal with preventing, or propagating physical exercise and healthy life, not just the results of top athletes. I'm someone who advocates this theory, and I think it's very important that this topic is discussed for the rest of the day. By the way, it's very important to say that parents who give children to various sports teams came to us and commented that they have problems with various coaches, who have coaching schools, but no knowledge of pedagogy and psychology, because what they teach these kids is aggression, you have to win and kill the enemy. I'll finish after my time's up. This law, according to the Democratic Party of Serbia, is a bad law. He can't be corrected by amendments, although we've tried that, we've written a lot of amendments. My impression is that the law needs to be withdrawn and made much better, and that's already a job for a future government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51017	Madam Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51018	Thank you. I would just say for a moment, while you are already from judo, you certainly know that Dano Pantic and Mara Kovacevic are carriers of public recognition, and they are from the sports unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51019	The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51020	Thank you. From my colleague Pelevic, as authorized by this agenda point, I was given, so to speak, by arrangement, four minutes to talk about what I think nobody really mentioned about this law. You have seven minutes. ) Did you make sure that you broke the line between sports, business and politics, which was neither traditional, nor existed at the time you were talking about today, about this article of the 78th Law, and say that there were good things in it? Do you remember that the word amateurism, that amateurism, used to be a prerequisite for sports? Is there a fault for all of us and all of those who have allowed the profit to become, as the legacy of liberal, market capitalism, particularly important, deciding and most important in sport itself? I know the profit and the way to make money and the sport can't be avoided, and you shouldn't, but you had to find a way to save, in some areas, amateurism in sport. I think this law sport is actually promoted as art, less as art, and more like a skill of earning. Tell me, have you in any way treated what is today a problem of reality, of the world and of ours in particular? For example, can one be commended that sports revenues are just prizes in competitions? Are there laws and laws behind the contract with athletes, or a lot of confusion and abuse? Is there a way behind sponsorship and advertising through sports popularity or is there a lot of dirty roads, if you will, after all, and party financing? Have you tried to avoid it at all? If it's completely regular for sport, like the production of sports equipment, so that one who can't achieve a top score at least can wear a "nake" shoes... Are you making sure that in construction, when building stadiums, ski trails, sports courts, there is something that will promote sports, not muddy sports? By refusing to discuss the Public Procurement Act, in which the Serbian Progressive Party predicted that it would also prevent the setting up of the tender, you showed the Serbian public that you do not care that there is order and legality in sports revenues. What is the most popular sport income in Serbia today? The bookies. And that's something that goes with sports. Young people today, instead of sports courts, are in bookies. There is no business that is not trying to "sport" from energy drinks to doping funds. Did you do something there? We know that China and India in the world are known as the largest sports equipment manufacturers. We know that 30 types of balls are produced, from that basketball, the biggest, over the smaller ping-pong, to a game ball that is (if I do not pronounce correctly, do not mind me) called ‘subuteo’ and has a diameter of 2.2 millimeters. Where did we find our place in production, production in general, or are we destroying industry and production here, even in the area of accompanying sports activities? In the area, it earns close to four billion euros, in China and India. What would that mean for a Serbia? We have modern sports activities, and at gyms, at a time when, for example, in 2005, an Iranian Hussein Rezadeh had 263 kilograms and was as heavy as a concert piano, and the weightlifting and that kind of sport promotes in fact body design. These are the absurdities that sport offers us, and instead of promoting them in that positive part, we take over from the world only what, for example, one Italy did... We have not even taken over their experience, that in the 7,000 gyms, as many as they have, they turn the annual turnover of fourteen billion euros. Who in this business called sports, which is no longer amateurism, makes money? Intermediaries, managers, those who have acquired actions from the property of society and state on sports grounds, those who have connected sport, business and politics and who charge other people's talent, trading it without any rules of the games. You have not defined them by this law, and that is why this law cannot be voted on, but very important issues are being raised, which you are staring at, because someone else, not the state, not the citizens, but one lobbyist group of friends, which you are trying to promote in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51021	Madam Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51022	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, I think you have raised some very relevant questions for sport and I am grateful to you. I'd like to express my surprise earlier, how is it that you're experiencing sports in such a dark way as you've just presented? For me, as for most Serbian citizens, sport is a source of joy and what our athletes achieve is something we are all proud of. On the question of whether we've properly regulated the gyms or not, I'll tell you to take a closer look at those elements of the law relating to the separation of activity, which I've already talked about. It is not only that why we have defined ourselves for these separations, tax policy and the possibility for tomorrow's tax policy to be adapted to better investment in sport, but also that element of activity as providing services to third parties treated in this law with a desire to prevent exactly the situations that exist in some gyms. However, I am particularly pleased and particularly important to me that you have raised the issue of doping. I will tell you that because of all those activities that the country of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia achieved in the previous period in November last year by the Council of Europe, I was elected by the vote of 46 countries of the Council of Europe, in a contest with a Russian candidate, as a representative of the Council of Europe at the Governing Board of the World Anti-doping Agency. If you didn't know that, maybe it's because I haven't talked about it enough, but I will tell you that I feel it as an honor for the state of Serbia, not because I represent it, but because the Republic of Serbia, which is often watched and evaluated by the Council of Europe, now has the opportunity to actively participate in the creation of a Council of Europe policy, and especially at such an important international forum as the Governing Board of the World Anti-doping Agency. Also, I'm going to tell you that recently on Interpol's board of directors had a very serious report on what doping funds in the world look like. The Interpol has just characterized a doping break as organized crime. That is why I launched, in collaboration with the interior minister, an initiative to form a unit within the framework of the MUP, or a small section within the Department of Drugs, the Anti-doping Department. It's one of the many activities the Ministry and Anti-doping agencies are doing. That's why I'm very glad that you mentioned the issue of doping and gave me the opportunity to inform you and the citizens of Serbia about this important fact. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: Replica, please. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51023	In a strict sense, there is no basis for replication, nor can there be replicas to the minister's presentation. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: How can he not? She misunderstood me for doping. For this type of exposure? Here you go, replica. I thought what the minister was talking about wasn't a reason for the replica, but I have the impression that you're experiencing that you're misunderstood. (Tomislav Nikolic throws out of place. You don't have to be a lawyer, Mr. Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am a professor for you. Never.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51024	I mentioned doping in the context of one finding, that there is no business that is not trying to get into sports, starting with the production of funds as energy drinks, and towards doping funds. Please, putting out troublesome things, the original but unsettled, unspeakable problems in sports, the lack and insufficient promotion of amateurism, you cannot translate into a dark experience, my personal, sports. On the contrary, I stand for amateurism in sports, in the part where it is necessary. I wanted to talk about sports and I wanted to make a parallel between politics and sports, where it's necessary to keep love for this idea or love for sport, which can be amateurally and represented and promoted, because it's the only one that's unsullied, and the people recognize it. I'm really sorry that the Serbian Progressive Party has, on your part, been seen as someone who experiences sports in a dark way. No, on the contrary. To add to your fight against doping, which I respect, as well as everyone else, the Serbian Progressive Party advocates, for example, the fight against drug trafficking in all possible ways and in all possible places, not only in Belgrade, but in all cities. That fight against doping funds, corticosteroids to strengthen body weight, etc. We add to this fight that we are fighting within the party by doing our regular political activities. I claim to you, amateur love and amateur politics and sports are recognized in our eyes. I'm sorry you didn't see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51025	Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51026	Of course, I deeply apologize to Parliamentarian Tabakovic for obviously misreading this kind of painting of sports on the dark side. Believe me, I've had that impression as part of your presentation. I'm just going to tell you that we obviously share deep love for amateur sports.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51027	The People's MP Momcilo Duvnjak has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are having a debate on the law of sport. You've announced this law as one of the best sports laws and it's been done in the last ten years. In one sentence, as my fellow MPs have said, this must be a law against sports. The sports audience, professors, doctors of the DIF, former athletes and current athletes are asking us in the SRS who wrote this law on sports. We ask the minister, and the minister has already answered us in principle who wrote this sport law. You said the Spanish took part in the making of the sport law, there were four or five days, the Italians and the Swedishs gave the advice. One thing's for sure, the law on sports has to write a profession. This must be done by people from Serbia, professors, DIF doctors, former and current athletes. In today's debate, no one has said, and I will tell you – as much as you from the ruling majority try not to show the state of sports, one thing is for sure, the sport in Serbia has destroyed politics since 2000. This is best seen at the Red Star basketball club, not to mention other clubs and sports. You hurried with a proposal for this sport law. Someone must be in a hurry to pass this law, to start the privatisation procedure, and it applies, one thing is for sure, to football clubs "Red Star" and "Partizan". Although, in this bill, the law states that privatisation can and does not have to. Privatisation is impossible, according to this bill. Until it is determined whose property, who has worked, who has participated in all this, it will be a long time. I'm talking about one case: I come from Kruševec and someone explain to me how the football club "Progress" will be privatized? On one paper, it says that the stadium belongs to the city, in the second – the sports center, and in the third – the state. What do you think, a man will come to buy dirty, torn-up uniforms, bathing suits, a club that has five accounts, in which is corruption and crime? He won't. Where's the bankruptcy proceedings taken? He won't. Such clubs in Serbia are 80% of your cases, that's for sure, and you have to admit it, from football, handballs, basketball. Don't tell us here about tennis and swimming, tennis and swimming are special sports; there people themselves finance their children, the state only boasts when medals and first places, that's reality. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, in the bill of this law, you had to, number one, put a school sport, not put it in two members, 143 and 144. You had to think about how kids who started playing sports from the first grade, from preschool, should be represented in the first place in this bill. You should've thought about making a deal with the Ministry of Education, and that's the most important thing in this law. If the professors of the DIF were to teach physical education in primary schools, at least twice a day, we wouldn't have fat children or flat soles or wrong spine. One thing's for sure, then we'd have, like we used to, full school sections: basketball, football, handball, volleyball, karate, martial arts, etc. That's for sure. One thing's for sure, the professors of the DIF wouldn't be at the employment bureau in this number. This is the most important thing for this law. What's the big deal? What does sports start from? It's from the smallest ones. The most important thing here is to pass the law in order to start privatization. Madam Minister, in this law you had to make it clear and write how to finance sports from the budget of the Republic and local self-government. I'll give you an example of how it shouldn't be done. But this is where the law was to be passed that local self-government in the budget has to set aside 5% to fund sports, and you'll certainly have a sport. Here's an example: in Kruševec, 62,000,000 dinars are allocated from the Kruševec sports budget; of which, believe it or not, 42,674,000 dinars go to football, basketball, basketball and handball 57,641,000, and to all other sports 3,400,000. Let one of you explain to me, Minister, by what law is it under what law, to explain to me here immediately, that football and the football club "Progress" can be allocated to 39,000,000 dinars? By what law, where does it say? What do these in the ruling majority tell us? In order to survive the coalition, we must give money to the football club "Progress". I ask the question, would we need money from the Republic? No, you wouldn't. Let's deploy these funds. When it was in power some other option a year, the SRS, DSS and SPS, for all clubs it was evenly distributed from the budget. If this money, instead of 39,000,000 football, were to be singled out for example. All the other sports and 30 million left, with 30 million from the city budget, could all the other sports be financed? I would. We'd have both in elementary and high schools, and arranged gyms and equipment, and we wouldn't have these halls full of recreationals, but we'd be students...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51029	Mr. Duvnjak, I'm sorry, just one brief notice, you'll speak for so long. From this moment on, we're out of direct transmission, there's gonna be a delayed transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this law does not cover sports centres; in Belgrade alone there are forty, and in Serbia I do not speak. In this law you have listed only in one sentence, there are no people who do not play sports in those sports centres. Now I ask you, what about these people? These are the people who work in maintenance, and they belong to sport: locksmiths, electricians, those who clean water, accountants, cashiers, guards. We here, in the end, will tell you openly, whether you want to accept it or not, we have to admit – there is corruption and crime in our sport. Madam Minister, it is impossible in one country that the former president of the Football Union is in prison, the secretary general has been killed, basketball player Haris Brkic has been killed. What does that mean? That our sports alliances are run by troubled people. I ask you only one question – do you know who Mr Karadzic is? How was "The House of Football" made in Pazova? Who is Mr. Petricevic, who was doing the work? Is that Mr. Karadzic's next-door cousin? Did he open the company for a month before he started making "The Houses of Football"? Not to tell you who Mr. Dragan Djordjevic is. I'm deliberately speaking names because after this, the authorities should deal with... The vice president of the Football Federation, who, along with Bogoljub Stepanovic, called Gods, participates in match-fixing. We set an example of football games in Kruševec a little less than a year ago, we said the name and name of whoever was involved in it. The whole public in Serbia knows that the match "Red Star" - "Cukurički", where "Cukarički" won 2-0 in Krusevec. I ask you again, Madam Minister, and there are such cases in Serbia every week, since this week when the football championship started, so while it lasts, why doesn't it answer, when we from the SRS asked the question, that the goalie Punjakovic was involved, that only two people in Belgrade could raise money and know the result at the bookies? No one in Krushevec could have paid in that bookies. This is what I'm telling you on purpose, for that reason. I'm just going to give you one more example of what happened to you. When the handball team coach was to be selected for this world championship that has passed, you well know that then Branko Gardasevic, president of the expert council, resigned and said he would not participate in dirty actions and setting up who would coach the handball team and prepare the worst for us. He was absolutely right. At that time, the political Democratic Party, with the help of Petrovic from Sapac, appointed Veselin Vukovic. What did we get? She's ruined our Democratic Party sport in the last ten years. I don't want to list all the other sports for you. That is what we will do when the amendments are submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. I suggest you pull this law out of the process to dorado, that we have one right and good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51031	National MP Milos Aligrudic is not here. Otto Kishmarton has no more time. Dragan Zivkov isn't here. Borislav Pelevic doesn't have time. Dragan Acimovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51032	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on Sports of the Republic of Serbia was passed in 1996, so it is normal for one such law to be passed after 15 years. In the meantime, a lot of things happened, changed, even improved in the field of sports. The old law did not cover enough sporting activities and activity, so this law had to be drafted much earlier. A number of reasons could be listed for the adoption of a new law. One of the important issues is the irregularity of certain issues important for the functioning of the sport system in the Republic of Serbia, both in force and in this bill, for certain areas, as well as inconsistencies with other legal regulations. I believe that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is aware that sport is of special importance to our country. That is why we MPs, regardless of political commitment, must approach this law very seriously and take critical account of certain provisions of the law which are not sufficiently defined and which allow for further abuse and illegality in this area. We are witnessing daily negative events in the field of sports, from the lowest sports organisations to the very top. It can also be heard in the media that political powermakers manage which sports organisation; how much athletes are abused in political advertising certain parties; the abuse of young athletes, discrimination and illegal resales, as well as a particular problem, which is the unresolved property and legal status of certain sports organisations. By reading this law, I gain confidence that the main objective of recording and privatising sports is a process that will allow individual powerful people to have more space for the cheap purchase of facilities and the entire assets of sports organisations, as previously done in the economy. The state institutions of the Republic of Serbia do not invest enough financial resources to develop mass sports. This gap is filled by private persons; they invest their own resources, but with purpose and intent to make a huge profit. The task of the state is to in various forms omass sports activities through the construction of the terrain, halls, i.e. sports facilities, because without adequate sports infrastructure it is impossible to develop mass sport of school and student youth. Private funds and private initiatives should be developed in elite sports, but under the strict control of state institutions. In practice, private individuals use young athletes to invest small funds in them, make huge profits on the free sports market, and thus discriminate against young sports talents that are not under their glass. All these circumstances that I presented during my presentation suggest that the state has not paid attention to the development of sports, and the provisions of the Sport Law are not complete and do not guarantee executive tasks and the role sport plays in the field of social life. For these reasons, the SRS will not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51033	People's MP Dobrislav Prelic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you were in your opening statement quite affirmatively defending this law, but I just don't understand what your affirmation was founded on, given that the Serbian Radical Party, in close analysis of the law, has come to the conclusion that this bill cannot be supported. We've tried to submit amendments as much as we can to fix something. I hope in that part you'll have the understanding, that you'll look at the amendments, I think, above all, they're meaningful. The only thing we can agree with you at the start – the SRS thinks the sport budget should be bigger. In addition, we believe that some other laws should have been passed earlier, which would have been easier to address accumulated problems in the field of sport. Given what all our athletes in world, European and Olympic competitions have done to date, I think we can rightly say that they are the best ambassadors of our country and of our country. Starting with that fact, it is clear that the state must also take all necessary measures to improve its obligations to athletes. The sport law awaited everyone with great impatience, primarily sports organisations, clubs, but also athletes themselves; not all other participants in sports events, events, as well as visitors to these events should be forgotten. We've had opportunities today to see that absolutely all MP groups are very interested in passing this law. I think everyone recognizes a branch where we actually achieve extraordinary results, that we are definitely a nation that is extraordinary, I can even rightly say, and above-averagely talented, when it comes to sports, simply, when it comes to all branches. That's what they say, first of all, the results in the competitions. However, the question arises whether all will be satisfied with such a legal solution? Our opinion is that it will not, for the simple reason that the bill was predicated to an extremely difficult application, given the fact that it had to precede the law that would transfer ownership rights from the state to local self-government. Then, ownership of sports facilities was to be defined and, in the end, to solve all the issues of sports facilities, among other things, risk and safety assessments in sports competitions, I think you will agree that this is very important. It's been a long time since many of our sports facilities were built. They are currently in a financial bad situation, so they were unable to maintain these facilities adequately, or even objects that were representative of character. Now many facilities can't even get permission from our commissions without talking about international commissions and conditions and criteria that we need to meet to participate in major competitions. One such example is a wonderful hall in Nis, where handball competitions can not be held now because we have been banned from the European Handball Federation. The state won't or can't currently make certain recoverys and corrections on the hall, and the town of Nis has no money for investment maintenance and reconstruction. This law satisfies the general form, but certainly not the essence. It goes into some other laws, some other areas, regulates issues that do not have legal, but sublegal form, which would say – work is good and the subject is missed. However, it is quite clear here that the law is passed for the so-called so-called. European principles, not because of the essence of its application. This law will experience the fiasco next year, unless amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party are accepted. We're not talking about us, we're trying to convince you and direct you to the basic application of this law. We're trying to fix something that, believe me, is really hard to fix right now. One moment, while I was reading the bill, I found myself in a dilemma about whether it was a law of sport or a law of faith. This will give you a chance to see in one amendment, whether or not you have lost it, but I hope you will accept that amendment as well. In another situation, I wondered whether this was the Ministry of Sports and Youth or the Agency for Business Registers, and in a third situation I asked myself whether privatization of sports clubs would be carried out as well as the privatisation of business entities so far. As far as privatisation is concerned, it is absolutely clear to our public how it has been done so far in Serbia. You said there was nothing to worry about and that you guarantee there would be no abuse. I ask you, since you say, Madam Minister, how can we trust you, not just you and the political party you belong to, but in general, since the arrival of the DOS in 2000, when, for example, in previous elections you promised 1000-euro actions and none of that? How can we trust you that when certain sports collectives are privatized, and especially our top clubs, there will be no abuse? You have the exclusive right, as minister, to bring sublaws and regulations. That's all I'm afraid of. You can simply adopt a regulation that, after a time, declares that a particular facility is no longer of national importance, for various reasons, and that privatisation is made. Let me just give you an example of one of our own, so to speak, a serious club. Currently, in this situation, it is "Vojvodina", which is our third club, after "Star" and "Partizana". For a time there was the manager, or chairman of the Management Board "King of Sugar", Mr. Kostic. You know that “Vojvodina” has an exceptional sports complex towards Veternik, across the street, which was built by a village called Lipov gai; there Mr. Kostic planned to build another such settlement. He has already agreed on a location to remove a complete complex, however fortunately, both the citizens of Novi Sad and the football club Vojvodina, at the time there was a Serbian Radical Party in Novi Sad and it was prevented. After that, the gentleman immediately retired and “Vojvodina” received new leadership. He probably estimated that there was no longer any interest in investing in sports, specifically at the Vojvodina Football Club. I would not like to offend the promoter, but I must ask you, first of all, did the MPs who have read this bill (I know that the ruling majority do not read the laws mostly, since they blindly trust their leaders) clearly that in certain chapters the law could also regulate the size of the uniforms that our athletes will wear? On the other hand, it does not get into the essence of key problems, such as ownership of sports facilities. How will there be privatisation of sports clubs if you don't know who owns the facility? Or is there something else behind this? It seems sooner to be that the state will somehow re-privitate itself by selling sports clubs. Once again, the state or, rather speaking, individuals will make a profit on something that no money has ever invested in. Will it happen after the privatisation of sports clubs, as it did in companies? When you analyze certain cases, I'm talking about top sports collectives, the way some of them put our politicians on boards, and even ministers, clearly says that there are certain intentions. By contrast, many of our prominent athletes have been arrested in a very transparent manner. You say you talked to Michelle Platini. Yeah, we don't doubt it. Did Michelle Platini ask you if it was possible for one football legend, the best footballer of all time in Serbia, to arrest you in such a transparent manner? Do you think that would allow France to be arrested in that way by Platini? Would Brazil allow Pele to be arrested in such a way? Believe me, you wouldn't, for sure. That our sport, like the other segments of our society, is slowly mastered by the mafia, also tells the facts: eleven prominent sports workers, club presidents, club directors and General Secretary of the Football Federation have been killed. How many murders were discovered? Now I guess it's clear to all of us that certain tycoons run from the shadows to certain sports collectives. With this law, the state interferes with something that is not her job, and where it should react, as in the case of our water polo team, you remain silent. Not to mention the basketball alliance, where coach Dusan Ivkovic didn't get nine salaries. Misery! Not to mention our football team and the Genoa riots. It's just a special story. You called our fans hooligans. The same hooligans participated in the burning of this people's congregation. Then, Mrs. Markovic, they weren't hooligans. What the SRS resents you, when it comes to this law, is that you have paid the least attention to the treatment of talented and prospective athletes, of which our future depends. Then it is clear that the objective of adopting this law for the government, or individuals from the government, is primarily to protect certain topics that are of interest to it, not to improve sports, especially the development of our talents. I remind you that the greatest athletes, not only in our country, but in the whole world, expressed their talent and perspective just as amateurs, were either underage or had no professional contracts, in big competitions. This law, or individual members, has now made it impossible. Here, above all, it was taken care of by big clubs, and by the so-called, so-called big clubs. Little clubs and collectives were least thought. There are so many of those kids that we have more than three-quarters of the athletes in them. They are very important not only in the pyramid concept of sport development, but also in improving the basic goal, which is that as much youth as we can get involved in sports. You couldn't protect that category of kids whose parents don't have the means to pay, that those kids are into sports. You failed to allow individuals with special needs to attend all sports events and competitions. You have failed to identify yourself in the clearest way against disorder and hooliganism, which is currently, you will admit, perhaps the biggest problem. You failed to encourage border sports alliances to organise international sports competitions to popularise sport and economic viability. You haven't solved much with this law. It seems that it is important to just pass the law and tell Europe – here, the law is in line with the European requirement and with your orders, and that it will not be partially acceptable for our sports organisations and individuals, it is not so important. I hope that in the debate in particular, we will have more opportunities to talk more specifically, not only about our amendments, but also about... The law will certainly not be withdrawn from the procedure, but I hope you will accept a certain number of amendments. I'm sure we'll soon have here, as well as when other laws are at stake, changes and additions to the law on sports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51035	I thank and give my word to the MP Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry and the Honorable Chairman, listening to my fellow Members' statements today, as always when a new law is passed, you will hear many conflicting opinions. I think that's good, because it's the only way that it can be influenced and passed by some law that will serve in application and be able to apply properly. What do you say now individually about the sport law? It's a wide-ranging leprosy that could be discussed for many hours, just like we discussed today. In any case, like many MPs, time is limited to me. I'll also agree with the people who criticized this law, because there were elements, at least from my corner, where they rightly stated some of their observations. I will also agree with the representatives of the ministry, who certainly have a good intention of passing a new law after so many years, because there is a second time and a situation in which we live. As far as that goes, it's a matter of discussion. No law can be ideal, but we are trying in a way to bring it in line, as best as possible, under certain conditions. When we say the law on sports, there's a lot of stuff that gets intertwined from amateur sports, school sports, professional sports. There are a lot of sports branches here, and if we were to personally expose ourselves, we'd be trapped in a trap that can't be solved by exposure to one MP or all of us here. I think that this law has wasted a lot of time on dismemberment, which is a good idea for the ministry, to create sports associations that will sort of gather young athletes, to the border union, to the sports association, some pyramid that will be made of the Ministry and down. I must say that we in the Committee on Sports and Youth, where we have good co-operation, discussed and tried to make our contribution. Even I tried to make my contribution as much as I could. In some ways, the ministry’s hands were tied to sports associations, sports associations, and how they function. This stems from the many laws that we have passed here in the Assembly without thinking about their consequences in application – the Association Act, which was passed two years ago; at that time we spoke, even I spoke as an opposition, but there was no hearing, he was voted. I've been warning of some failures that will happen in application, and they're happening now. This applies to associations in culture and other associations of citizens. Now the Sports Ministry has tried to solve a rational problem through sports associations. There's been a problem with the Association Act. The Association Act has been passed so that three members can establish an association, even a minor. First of all, it's a collision with each other. This association can be registered, and it is further said that this association can function and which bodies it should have, and it is said: the statutes of the association are adopted by the assembly, the assembly is elected by the executive or the board of directors, vice-presidents and certain supervisory authorities in that association. Now I wonder, how can someone register a particular association that needs to have its own statute, its own bodies that have passed that statute and the rules of that association, if there is no assembly or executive body, if the law has provided that only three people can register it? So all these bodies and all the other things are going to happen about that after. Of course, now you get into other problems – if a certain sports association comes into a situation that has fewer members than the founders, it means three, it goes out. What if that sports association has five members, seven members? What congregation do they have, what supervisory committees they have, what administrative bodies they have, and how do they function? By law, you can't close it, because there are still five members, and the same has the right to compete, and now I'm going back to one financial thing, at the Sports Department for certain programs that they're supposed to be dealing with, in various areas. He has the right to compete and get the money. A failure has now been made that allows a group of people, and already there are many such associations in Serbia, and there is always money and everything in sports... Wherever the money is, not just in sports, there's always manipulation. Certain people will be able to manipulate financial resources through these associations. Here, the Ministry tried to do the best it could, so it lost half the law to clarify how these sports associations should function, because the Ministry of Sports has prescribed a number of members of the Association Act. It's all right, but only the last registration of the association and their closure, their property... Finally, there is one member who says that when the association goes bankrupt or some financial failures are made, all members of the association bear a burden, consequences. It's very unfortunate for members who have no idea how this association is doing business, how it gets money, how money is spent, to bear legal consequences, if I understand correctly. Some things can't be packed there. I think this Association Act passed knowingly two or three years ago. Since it refers to citizens' associations, it corresponds to NGOs, which are so registered in Serbia, and no one knows how to finance and whether they are even controlled by anyone in this country. This Law on Associations of Citizens is now being translated into sport, into culture, everywhere, and it creates big problems. I think we should have asked for an amendment to the Association Act, firstly, so we could solve this part. The other thing, there's been a lot of talk here about amateur sports, about school sports. You've all been saying, not to repeat, that in our schools there's more physical education on paper, that there's a little bit of a cartoon, that this should be dealt with a little bit more in the law, more dedicated to that part, because when young people can get out of it, and when they go out on the street, they're going to go to a bar, there's drugs, and there's all the dangers they're following on the street. There was an end to the Privatization Act. And that's a lot to discuss here. There are a lot of sublegal acts here that rely on some other laws. The finding is, in any case, well-intentioned. When it comes to sports, we're all well-intentioned, because sport sort of keeps the nation going. They say - in a healthy body a healthy spirit. There's been a lot of crime in sports for a long time, big marifeluks are being conducted, financial transactions, football sales; so much has been written about it, so much is already known about it, so much has been brought to the public. The state was trying, not only this government, and earlier they had always promised to deal with certain clans, mob groups that had influence in sport. Of course, mobsters always find influence where money is, not just in sports, and in business, culture, wherever you want. How do you solve that? This country needs to be saved. I'm not saying the Youth and Sports Department can solve these problems through laws. Perhaps the greater focus could have been placed on the problem of privatisation, how to make as little space for crime as possible and rely on certain laws in the area of justice, police; you said you had contacts with Minister Dacic. The state only appears at some point, when it suits her. No one's into hooligans. I don't go to games long, just because the spirit of sports is lost, but I'm sorry we got into a situation where hooligans... I say hooligans, and not all hooligans, we used that term wrong, there's a lot of kids being seduced. There are certain leaders, there are certain connections between members of the board of clubs and people who lead from the shadows all our big clubs, and it's a public secret, we all know that. Now we're going to put a certain man, whether he was that athlete or someone else, because of some affair on the front page, we're going to decide to deal with crime, and those in charge, who are pulling the strings in sports and financial transactions, are the directors of certain clubs, companies, they're still staying, their names are not mentioned anywhere. So that's where the weight should have been thrown, of course, as much as this sport law allows. You're not the justice department or the police department, but I think that's where the space is left and the question is how this law will apply when the time comes to privatise sports. I could still talk a lot, like any of us, but I think we all have good intentions to contribute to the improvement of our sport law, just like you who wrote it. We'll see, we have amendments, you'll look at our amendments, so you'll probably adopt some of that. We'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51037	Thank you. You left 15 minutes for your colleague, to whom I give my word. The word has Milan Škrbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51038	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I am the last speaker on this list; there are 15 minutes left, it can't last much longer, only if the minister will address me after my public address. So, I'm talking about sports and I don't think anyone's mentioned what I'd like to mention in these 15 minutes, and that's the most important thing to say, past the sports clubs "Partizana", "Stars" and other things. I'm going to base my exposure on something that no one has talked about so far, and that, you agree, Madam Minister, modern sociologists say the level of sport development is the best indicator of the general development of a society. In order to analyse the structure of sports in one country, it is necessary to analyse the situation, problems in the following areas (and we have had plenty of time and years to analyze it): school sport, professional staff, sports infrastructure, top and quality sport, and, of course, very important for one country, recreational sport. What's important is that it's a source of funding. Article 71, entitled ‘Immunity’, states that a sports association can obtain funds and generate revenue from contributions, membership fees, donations and gifts, subsidies, inheritance, interest on deposits, loans, dividends, services, sponsorships and other commercial, marketing, business and business activities, in accordance with the law. I say, an important source of sports financing must be tax reliefs, which I don't see in this article. Sports must have a big tax charge. Is that supposed to happen? It's not. Is the state a strong privatisation partner, as a guarantee? We don't see it from this law, and that's what it takes for those who are interested in investing in sports. That security doesn't exist for people who are willing to invest in sports. The collapse of clubs is the result of the withdrawal of state and financing companies; so far it seemed so. It all depends on funding, though. We can make an ideal law, and whether there will be profitous interests, possibly some who are interested in investing, at this point, through this law, I don't think there will be. Privatisation may be the most interesting, but not the most important job waiting for sports workers in the future, because a good funding system is the solution to many problems. Small sports or so-called. non-commercial sports are a big problem. Serbia and these sports have world-famous results, world-renowned individuals and athletes, clubs, which nobody mentions in these unfortunate times. Extremely few are represented in the media, which is disastrous for the development of such sports. This has contributed to giving up many interested finance for these small sports (you will agree, there were very few) or sponsors who sought their chance just to present their businesses or companies through these sports. Of course they gave up, newspapers and presses write about many other things; that's what someone was talking about before me. That's not what this law says. Small clubs in all sports in Serbia are in the interior, mostly; they recruit talents and leave them to take care of themselves as they know and can, which means shutting down a large number of such clubs in Serbia. You'll agree, it's not the perspective of sports in Serbia. What we in the SRS Group absolutely disagree with, and we have seen many debaters from the ruling furniture and coalitions, are three ways of privatization. It is immediately suspected of something that is undefined; when it is undefined, and there are several ways of realization, it is not good. Yet we live in the country of Serbia, where little morale can be taken under a human trait, unfortunately, and if that is not regulated by law, then there are only a number of thinking to come. We need to know what we want, because if the private registers or privatizes a club, what if the private person goes bankrupt? It's all stopping, it's shutting down. Not only the first team, the oldest, all schools, pioneering, youth youth, and the entire system of the club are shut down. We don't see it, and we don't recognize it in this law. In many cases, there is what is more important than money, which is education, which is very important, which is followed by sport. The question is further – how to pay and maintain infrastructure from modest means? It's a very large part of any sports organization's budget. The state, that's what we were saying, but once again we find out, this law did not create conditions to stimulate large companies, businesses to invest in sports, so that on the other hand those who invest would be freed from certain givings. Seeing as I have time, I'm going to set a good example from the community I come from. In my last term, I was the vice president of the municipality, and now I am the president of the Assembly and together with the SPS we are still struggling to remain in power. Six years ago, I personally hosted a high-quality gathering, where there were 20 people from the world of sports. There were university professors, science doctors, active athletes, top coaches who used to have and wear Olympic medals, and today they're top coaches. It's about school sports. This was the birth of an idea, which was forwarded from the meeting to all addresses: the government, the president of the state, the resolution ministry, the province government, etc. Guidelines have been given to help, since these are all professional people, the adoption of a new law on sports, but we haven't received any answers until today. When I heard earlier that Mrs. Komic had not received an answer to her question, then I am not surprised why we did not get answers to those very professional and quality questions, which went with the suggestion. What bothers us from the SRS parliamentary club and what we draw attention to is also the title above Article 134: The needs and interests of citizens in the field of sports in the AP Vojvodina. The government of Vojvodina, headed by Prime Minister Pajtic Bojan, has unlimited powers under this law. It is immediately suspected of abuse in this segment. We have the Republic, we have the Vojvodina, and we have the great powers of several people. If we weren't living in a country like this, if we weren't looking at everything and everything in our environment, under these governments from 2000 to today, I wouldn't be talking like this. Article 137, local self-government, with its 16 points, legal provisions, that's simply impossible. I'll give you an example, again from my midst, and when I'm done, Madam Minister, you'll remember the environment and how that alliance worked. The locale has no funds for all of this, especially after drastically reduced budgets by abolishing much of the transfer funds. So it's the state's fault. It's about the Municipality of Apatin, she really gave out big funds to fund clubs, i.e. A lot of obligations clubs have. Two sports halls were built, and the third was built with its own resources. Along with the existing three, we have six sports facilities that are part of primary and secondary schools. We weren't waiting for the law to be passed. We've already passed the law. At these gatherings we agreed to form a sports alliance of the municipality, we went into action and this is the result of the work so far. Through the Sports Federation, funds are directed to clubs, and the bookkeeping of these clubs is run by the Sports Federation, without compensation. Clubs don't have that problem. They are funded through the alliance and municipal budget of the following things: transport of clubs to competitions, regular leagues, plus other, medical examinations of all athletes, insurance of all athletes, full equipment for clubs by certain criteria, scholarships of athletes of all ages by categories – representatives, talents and younger talents, free terms in all sports halls in the entire municipality, pay coaches by certain criteria, quotations, and especially for top competitors, their preparation and travel to world and European competitions that we have in our midst. Success was amazing: of the 27 clubs, when we founded the Sports Federation, at first, we came into a situation that today we have 57 clubs. We managed to get many young people interested in sports and bring them to green lawns and sports halls. We've separated them from the drugs and from the cafes. Everything was ideal, even our association of the Apatin municipality received a prestigious recognition from the state for what was done; you were there, Madam Minister. The May Prize of the Sports Union of Serbia, the highest recognition the state can award to an alliance. Now we've welcomed, at this point, that we can only fund 30% of all this. It's not the community. We had a good idea. That's from a little while ago, that everything depends on funding. Let's just say, I'm going to set an example of the Kajak club Apatin, which celebrates this year, it seems to me, 65 years of existence, which he gave the Olympics. We've got two Olympics that came from the Apatino. To remind those who don't know the public, the first Olympic cocoa was made in Apatino. We have a great tradition and we organize big competitions. Now we've come to the situation, at the annual assembly on Sunday, that she's about to be shut down, because there's no interest in funding. We can make laws as much as we want, but the municipality can't survive at this point because of the abolishing of those transfer funds. Simply, the fate of the club and many other clubs in the municipality and Serbia will be uncertain. When we talk, since I have a little more time, about sports in schools, it's a little bit of gym class. It's a bit absolute. The law needs to be passed... In some schools I've been through, there's also a general physical and professional physical, so not to say every day, necessarily, because that's the only way we're going to separate children from preschools to colleges from computers, from rooms, because it's already become contagious. We'll have a degenerate nation, unfortunately, if we don't. I'm looking at how much time I have left, but what I don't get will be a chance to say in detail. It's very important, just to touch, a recreational sport for a healthy nation. In order to regenerate the human organism in a physical and mental sense, it is necessary to practice sporting activities as a personal need, for the purpose of rest, recreation, entertainment and entertainment. The existing problems are lack of facilities, life transition and length of working hours, and habits for sports. We have no data on how many residents our country is engaged in recreational sports, but we have data that up to 75% of the population in Scandinavia is engaged in recreational sports and that it is on a very high level. Today sport is considered an irreplaceable means of forming cultural stereotypes, as well as an effective way to overcome the crisis of the identity and legitimacy of the nation. The state can be proud of sports results if these results reflect the health and ability of the entire population, not the fruit of the spontaneous success of individuals, not to mention, if they are the fruit of illicit sports. We must not have a motto – the target does not choose a means. It can't be in sports. How much time do I have left not to start a new topic? (President: 10 seconds.) Ten seconds. Here, I'll take the moment to congratulate the ladies in the Assembly who are also employed here, and, of course, all of you, as the last speaker, to all the ladies in the state on March 8th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-07-0.u51039	Thank you, Mr. Squirt, for your congratulations. Is there anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of the law of Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure who wants a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer signed up for the floor, allow me to conclude today's search for the Sport Law and to thank the Minister and her associates, the Minister particularly for interactive communication with us MPs and for a very high quality presentation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. We will be pleased to have Minister Samardzic Markovic present on behalf of the government tomorrow.
