ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice from the competent institutions, above all from the Ministry and the Government, on several issues related to river traffic, infrastructure and energy. Will the Republic of Serbia request a 62m-euro loan from the European Union for the revitalisation of ship's translators at the Đerdap 1 and the Đerdap 2 hydropower plants, and will the translation of passengers, ships and goods remain completely free, such as since 1969? Will the amendments and additions of the International Treaty on the Construction and Exploitation of the Water Energy and Navigation System "Gerdap 1" and "Gerdap 2" be requested after the completion of the revitalisation of the aggregates and translators, and will Serbia start to pay for the translation of domestic and foreign users? It is known that from September 1964 to May 1972, Yugoslav and Romanian builders built and finished the Hidroelectrica "Gerdap 1". Since 1969, the translation of passengers, ships and goods has been carried out without any compensation. To date, more than 70,000 ships have been translated, with 350,000 passengers and 200 million tonnes of goods. As the facilities are being revitalised, huge funds are needed to be in charge of the Republic of Serbia, and translators must be used by all European Danube states. That's why we think it's logical that they would have to pay for the maintenance of this so expensive system. The issue that has been raised today in several daily papers and newspapers, that our government received an offer last year regarding the construction of a reversible hydropower plant, Djerdap 3, near Donji Milanovac and hydropower plants on Bistrica, is also a question that we are looking for further notice. The idea of building this hydropower plant has existed since the 1970s, there is a feasibility study that suggests that our country, but also countries around it, would benefit greatly from its construction. Therefore, we ask the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy to inform us as long as it has arrived at the construction of a general project for this hydropower plant, when it could be expected to begin its construction and inform us as far as the negotiations with the Romanian side, which are related to the possible future use of Danube water, as well as the needs of this hydropower plant. We are particularly interested in what intentions are related to similar planned reversible hydropower plants in the Bistrica system on the Lim River. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51238	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51239	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question to the Government, above all, to the Prime Minister, especially in this long-term interagency, when we don't even know who the minister of which is and from the media we know that there is a possibility that most ministers are currently even formally in a state of resignation. But, well, we'll talk a lot more about it with Minister Markovic in the next session. My question concerns the state of education, education and science, that is, the problems that exist in this sector, practically, for two months now through a strike, which is different intensity, which is sometimes more pronounced, and sometimes slightly weaker intensity, through different fates and different situations that exist in different schools across Serbia, depending on who is in which union or how much union has an impact on the government, according to the minister, according to certain sectors in the government. This question can't wait for the reconstruction to be completed or to see which one will belong to. Even at this point, we don't know who's dealing with education or education issues in the right sense of the word, especially the part about science, which is closely related to the issue of education, education and education. Mr Djelic, who has been Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and Minister of Science so far, will obviously not be. He is visiting Japan these days, or the foreign minister is following the president of the Republic for the visit, and the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration is apparently following the foreign minister. So far, this practice has only been linked to a situation where Mr. Jeremic is at risk of doing some serious damage in relations with Brussels. These are European integrations, but it seems that such behaviour has also spread to multilateral relations in the right sense of words, i.e. relations with non-member countries of the European Union. Certainly, what is the question, it is obvious that Minister Obradovic cannot deal with this problem alone. Until a few days ago, he had Minister Diana Dragutinovic, who was trying to solve the problem. Minister Dragutinovic no longer performs the duty, he will spend some time while the prime minister personally assumes jurisdiction, while the problem and the interruption of teaching exist. Eighty thousand graduates each year in Serbia, nearing the end of the school year and the entrance exams, and what the government misses in its work, what Mr. Markovic can correct with legal acrobatics and offering such solutions through the government law and ministry law, such a scenario, such a solution cannot be applied to these young people. We are waiting for the start of a new school year in autumn, or academic year, and we will again be in a situation to solve problems with ad hoc, meeting in parliamentary clubs and the goodwill of Belgrade Mayor, which is offered to solve some of these problems with the help of our parliamentary group. This problem is much deeper and much more serious than it looks. We are, however, a country that, two years after the rector of its largest university, brought to the stage at a rally for Kosovo's defence and put him in a position to break the Shanghai criteria and try to challenge the criteria on which the Belgrade University is not among the 500 best universities in the world, i.e. not in the place the rector is convinced it is. This is not the autonomy of the university in the right sense of the word, and this is the consequence that the university and the whole education in many ways is either left to themselves or reduced to the ordinary budget user as some kind of one, it is usually said – an agricultural cooperative. Recently, I was on a visit to Serbia, so I was warned that this term is not used in a Colloquial way, since many agricultural cooperatives in Serbia are more serious than some of our educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51240	National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51241	Dear Deputy Secretary-General, Mr Minister, fellow MPs and all citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, I have a question, first -- when will the reconstruction of the National Assembly, or the leadership of the National Assembly, be carried out, as we see that the government's reconstruction will take place on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday? I think the next step would be, and that the citizens of Serbia would expect it to be done, and the reconstruction of the National Assembly. Because, as far as I know, according to some ratings, how citizens are watching us here, and especially the leadership of the National Assembly, these ratings are on the lowest branches, and I think that should be the next step, since the current government probably thinks that the term of office is eight years, not four years. I will use the presence of Mr Markovic, a pendrek minister who introduces municipalities in municipalities and municipalities across Serbia through the gendarmes and police. We are witnesses of both the King and the Kursumlia as it is done. The people do not know that in meetings with party presidents who make up the power, including the president of "New Serbia", the minister speaks one thing, and then, at the pressure of local officials from his party, decides something else. But the people say no one's till dawn, so one day we'll find out the real truth. What I want to ask you, Mr. Minister, and I hope that I will get some answers from you, because I have not received any answers at all on the mass of questions so far, because today, thank God, a state of emergency has been lifted in the King, and I know that a lot of citizens are satisfied, Mr. Minister, how you and the Government have worked, and that you have done a lot for the unhappy citizens of the Kings, but you need to know that there are also a lot of dissatisfied citizens. I want to say a word on behalf of these dissatisfied citizens, since the state of emergency in the King has been lifted today, so also political parties and dissatisfied citizens will be able to speak publicly. It is time to file an account, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – how much money has been collected, how has it been spent and whether the fire that occurred in the Parliament building in the Kingdom has anything to do with the accounts of the arrival of money in that joint account? To be exact, I don't doubt anything, I'm just asking and I believe that very quickly and explicitly, as you knew yesterday that you would give us the replicas of almost every word, and now answer – was the arson of the room the burning of accounting where bills, money were collected, or is it some other room? I believe that the citizens of Serbia would like to know, especially the citizens of the Kings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51242	The minister checked in, but in this part of the session, the minister can't get a word. Please read the Rules of Procedure. I demean the National Assembly by ignoring the obligations arising from Article 286, as well as the law. I have no doubt that the minister wanted to answer, but simply, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible for anyone, other than the MPs, or president and authorised representatives, to get the word. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51243	The DSS parliamentary group has repeatedly pointed out in the National Assembly that in a still significant number of provisions, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not being implemented and that the laws adopted by the assembly are not being implemented. Just to remind you that a series of still positively applicable regulations is not in line with the Constitution, no public property law has been passed, etc. It is a big problem when the Constitution and the law of the institution, which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are not implemented or not respected, is the most responsible to implement and implement the positive regulations adopted in the National Assembly. In this case, it is a matter of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, the DSS insists on a truly demeaning and humiliating memo that we received from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, where it informs us that it violates the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia relating to its obligation and responsibility to propose new ministers here within 15 days of the end of the term of office of certain ministers. I would remind you that the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia says in Article 25(2) that the Prime Minister is obliged to propose to the National Assembly the election of a new minister within 15 days of the end of the term of office of the previous minister. That deadline, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was long gone. Instead of fulfilling this obligation, we receive a letter from the Prime Minister saying in the last position that the fulfillment of the law and the Constitution would be a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. We've passed different laws here. We of the opposition have repeatedly criticised these laws, but when the National Assembly adopts one law, it becomes part of the legal system and a positive regulation. Whatever we think of him, and we thought very badly of all the laws you've proposed, we have to respect those laws. And most importantly, what concerns the most in this case is that the law does not respect the Prime Minister, at the head of the institution that is most responsible for law enforcement, and at the moment that he establishes that institution. It is these provisions, which are now being violated and not applied, that concern the government's choice and the big question is how will treat what will happen Monday, when the government is elected, and whether the government will be elected under the Constitution and the law. That's the question. The DSS believes it will be illegal and counter-selected. What's particularly worrying is that we here accuse ourselves of passing laws that are such that they insult us all and threaten our honor and dignity. The question is for the president of the National Assembly – what will he do about the violation of the Constitution and the law by the Prime Minister and the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly by such a single letter? The question for the Prime Minister is – when will he, as the most responsible person for the implementation of the Constitution and the law and as someone who has violated the dignity of the National Assembly, resign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51244	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51245	I would like to ask the Minister of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and thus raise the question of the use of government authority in terms of implementing the Public Procurement Act, in the most sensitive part called citizens' health. I would like you to check and determine the facts relating to the purchase and consumption of medicines and Sanitary materials in a health institution that bears the name "Klinic Center of Vojvodina" in Novi Sad, for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and the first six months of 2009, because very serious questions are being asked. I am looking for the answers I want you to provide me in terms of information for each year in particular, and this is how much of the funds were transferred by the Republic Health Insurance Office to that health care institution for the purchase of medicines and sanity materials, both through contracts concluded and through contracts concluded? Under two, I ask for information – what were the bed capacity of the health institution for those years? Under three, considering that the Republic Health Insurance Institute is contracting or, as the medical dictionary says, buying out a plan for the health care institution as a whole, 100% – what was the percentage capacity utilisation, how many insurance companies were on the so-called. waiting lists at the end of each year, and considering that citizens have been waiting for specialist examinations and operations for months? Given that there are marked discrepancies in relation to the percentage of the capacity utilisation of health institutions and the volume of money transferred for drugs and sanity material, I demand that those to whom I ask the question be seriously and deeply controlled in co-operation with the competent state authorities and determine the factual state of affairs and that they provide us with information on this basis. Why am I looking for an answer to this question? Since 2006, with 30 June 2009, Serbian citizens, 975,334,000 have transferred more funds than regular transfers to the Novi Sad Clinical Centre. If anyone has not heard me correctly, I will repeat – 975,334,530 dinars have been transferred more to the Clinical Center than is normally transmitted to them on a regular basis. For 240 million, there's a reason that it's old-time debts, but 735 million have no basis, even if it's information we have. Given that prescription drugs in the Republic of Serbia's budget define 23.5 billion dinars and that medicines and medical resources in health institutions are defined by 28.8 billion dinars, what is the need to transfer more funds than this to the Vojvodina Clinical Centre? The key question is why the Republic Health Insurance Institute did not open tenders for prescriptions and medications in health care institutions by unique generic groups during these years or earlier, as it would avoid medicines with the same characteristics for patients having a range of one to seven times more. I mentioned the case that "norvask" is prescribed and obtained, which costs 700 dinars, and the drug with the same fact can be obtained by 170 dinars, thus reducing the costs for these purposes, or achieving a rationalisation of funds, the citizens are better supplied with drugs and less resources are allocated to health institutions. If you had at least respected the current Public Procurement Act, I would not have had the opportunity here today to ask why 735 million dinars have been transferred more than billions that they otherwise receive, let alone adopt a new public procurement bill that we are trying to control in difficult times money flows, especially in the area of health. I ask that the answer be delivered by written means and within the time limits prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51246	The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51247	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I question Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic and the foreign ministry. The theme of all topics is, of course, Kim. How is it possible that authorities in Belgrade formed a team that was sent to Brussels to negotiate with representatives of the so-called. Thaci's governments, committed to crime and involved in human organs trafficking, and thus in fact recognises the independence of KIM? How is it possible for the RS government to participate in the effective recognition of KIM and accept EU and Thaci's intermediation as an equal partner in the talks? I want to remind you that by international law, the state's recognition can be de jure and de facto. De jure, if a declaration of recognition of the independence of a particular state is brought, and de facto, if, by fact, independence of a particular territory is recognised. You have many examples in international law. Among other things, US President Nixon's visit to the People's Republic of China in 1972 was the actual recognition of NR China by Washington, although no declaration of recognition of that independence was adopted. Also, the signing of economic agreements with the Soviet Union from 1921 to 1924 was an effective recognition of the Soviet Union by those countries. See now what your representative, chief negotiator in those talks, Borko Stefanovic, says. He openly says the talks negotiated a CEFTA agreement, a free trade agreement. It also said that there was a debate on the monasteries, air traffic, telecommunications, etc. So that's exactly the mode of actual recognition that's been applied in the cases I've listed before. The question arises as to how it is possible for representatives of the RS government to openly violate the RS Constitution and implement the actual recognition of KIM. Can you guys get it together? Can you figure out what you're doing? So, you're in fact acknowledging Thaci's KIM authorities, which Dick Marty recently strongly accused of trafficking in human organs. It's a special story and I'm asking a question -- how did the Serbian side accept mediator Robert Cooper? Robert Cooper, the EU's representative, is the main mediator in these negotiations. The man is known for his anti-Serb attitudes. By the way, he was Tony Blair's advisor. Look at what kind of politics you run. Robert Cooper wrote the book "Breaking Nations". Just in the years preceding this meeting, he spoke of breaking Serbia. The man made statements that were openly anti-Serb. He openly said that KIM considers kim independent. Robert Cooper is, by the way, a deeply immoral person. I'll read you what he wrote in his book "The Breaking of Nations". He says: "The challenge for the post-modern world lies in adapting to the standards of double arches. Europeans should co-operate on the basis of rights and common security, but outside the EU they should apply more harsh methods from previous times – force, preventive attacks, fraud and whatever it takes. The key to European security is that we Europeans, in our dealings with each other, stick to the law, but when we work in the jungle, we have to apply the laws of the jungle." It was written by Robert Cooper, who is the main mediator in negotiations between Belgrade and Thaci's criminal and terrorist authorities in Pristina, which took place in Brussels, which began on 8 March. How could the Government of the Republic of Serbia accept such a man? How could she possibly enter these negotiations and actually acknowledge the independence of KIM? The EU's stance towards Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, is clear through Robert Cooper's mediation. He treats Serbia like a jungle, and Serbs treat it like wild beasts. Please read some books next time and find out who the people you're negotiating with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51248	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Ilic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, on the search in the details of the first and second items of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, invited the sittings to attend: Gradimir Nenadović, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojić, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Vladna Jović, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Slavica Stišović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Government, and Željko Čurguz, Senior Council of the Republic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (Singualty) Infringement of Rules of Procedure, MP Jovan Palalić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51249	Article 27. Today, a large number of media reports have surfaced that all ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia have resigned. Among the names listed are the name of the state administration minister present here and the local self-government of Milan Markovic. Under the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation ministers cannot represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly, only to carry out technical and ongoing tasks until the term of office has ceased. The only person we have seen who has not resigned is Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who could only be in that situation, if that is true (there is a minister here, he can answer us whether it is true) to defend these laws. The resignation ministers simply cannot represent the government of the Republic of Serbia or defend the laws. In that sense, I ask you, as the chairman, to establish that fact and to get information on whether the ministers have resigned and whether the Prime Minister Markovic has resigned here and whether he can represent the government in the resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51250	People's MP, it's much better to read the Rules of Procedure than the newspapers, when it comes to these things. So, when a member of the government resigns, he or she resigns to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister resigns from the resignations submitted to the Prime Minister, on the basis of Articles 132 and 133. The Constitution, passed on to the National Assembly. When the resignation, under the authority of the Prime Minister, is in the procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly at the first next session finds the resignation of a member of the government. I understand your interest in taking care of the order. You can be completely carefree, Minister Milan Markovic has the right to explain on behalf of the government and as a representative of the government, and in the debate in principle and in particular, the draft law on amendments and additions to the government law. You want a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51251	Article 103: 'The People's Parliament shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if it considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure'. Namely, the chairman, you did not answer the question whether Minister Milan Markovic resigned. Because, Article 24. The government law says that the minister who resigned, I am not talking about the termination of the mandate, is obliged to do current jobs. In doing so, he can't lay down the rules except for those...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51252	People's MP, we can't break the Government Act here. You can get a word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure if I've broken the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51253	But you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51254	Article 103 has nothing to do with the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51255	Have the ministers also resigned here, Minister Milan Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51256	Once again, a member of the government, a minister or minister, resigns to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister shall submit a proposal to establish his resignation. Your desire to mix media reports and procedures in the Assembly is your wish. Please do not belittle the National Assembly or compromise the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51257	You didn't tell us if the minister resigned.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51258	I've quoted you to the members of the Constitution and the procedure. The resignations in this assembly were and we all know, if we're Members of the People, at what point is that someone's resignation...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51259	Did they or did they not resign? )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51260	People's MP, please don't throw it away. So, once again, a member of the government resigns to the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister informs the National Assembly. If that had happened, you would have been the first to be informed, as a People's Messenger, and the other 249 people's messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51261	Can the Minister in resignation defend the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51262	National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51263	Article 107, violation of dignity. You're all right, Madam Chairman, but from the moment he signed his resignation, he's called the resignation minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51264	People's MP, if I'm right, then there can be no harm to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51265	No, no. Well, we can talk now, but we're not...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51266	We can't. Either I'm right or I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51267	What? No, you're wrong, because I'm telling you that the minister in the resignation can't defend the law. It's clear to us how he stops being a minister, or she does. That's not a question. The question is for Mr Milan Markovic – did he sign a paper that says "the resignation"? It's relevant for work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51268	People's MP, you can't ask the Minister's question as part of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vuceta Toskovic, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz and Aleksandar Martinovic. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Given that today's working day began at 1400 hours, on the basis of Article 90(2), I am informing the National Assembly, relatively unusual, that we will be working until 1800 hours. It is common to announce an extension of work. So, by 6:00 p.m. in the discussion of the specifics of the law that has just been opened, and we will continue at 10.00 p.m. tomorrow, whether the law and amendments we are currently discussing or next, will depend, of course, on the course of the debate. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51269	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People. Mr. Minister, it remains unclear whether you are a resignation minister or if you are still a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Entire Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act is your attempt to blow up a punctured balloon. No matter how hard you try and get in, the balloon is pierced. It's venting air, and it's unusable. The punctured balloon is called Mirko Cvetkovic, who never had the capacity to run the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially during the period of the global economic crisis and through the challenges of the global economic crisis in which Serbia was found. For these three years, he did not show the authority of the statesmen, nor when he barely read the exposés three years ago, nor in the meantime, when he left this room in debates about the Republic of Serbia's budget, so he does not show it now, when he was to come and explain and defend the government's law as Prime Minister, as the most responsible, not that you, as his associate or former co-worker. You have destroyed his authority, too, and I don't mean just you, Mr. Markovic, so now even a small child in Serbia knows that Mirko Cvetkovic is not dependent on anything. Even though you knew all of this, this law entangles that balloon, trying to prove that Mirko Cvetkovic can be both valuable and capable, as can be Prime Minister and Finance Minister. Such a legal solution is unacceptable for the SNS, as it brings the Prime Minister into a kind of conflict of interest. I know you'll say that's how certain savings will be achieved. I know you'll say – isn't the SNS advocating savings, isn't it advocating a cheaper state? Yes, we are, but if you wanted to save, then you would have accepted a bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act, which was proposed by the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia". It makes it clear that Serbia's state of size and economic power should have an optimal government president, only one Deputy Prime Minister, one of their joint cabinets, one of the cabinet heads (not so far), up to six special advisers, who would do jobs for both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and, of course, there would be no ministers without portfolios. That, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would really be a savings. The position of Article 1, which we asked for by amendment, is only a story for ourselves. It's a second attempt to patch up and blow up a punctured balloon, by legally forcing ministers to listen and respect the Prime Minister. The Serbian Progressive Party, as you well know, is in favour of abolishing the blanco resignations of MPs in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and as you set out, I think you will ask the ministers for some blank resignations that you would activate tomorrow if they do not listen or do not respect Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Imagine Serbia building an authority for the Prime Minister with the imperative provisions of the law, without sanctions. Should Serbia be patched up by the Prime Minister, without authority? Should Serbia's government, in which ministers are legally obliged to listen and respect the Prime Minister? Should this law be the only buckle between the Prime Minister and the ministers in the same government? Where's the common policy? Where's the vision? Where are the ideas? Where's the trust? Serbia needs stability. Serbia needs a new, not old, makeupd, anemic government. I really believe, as most citizens of the Republic of Serbia believe, that Serbia needs extraordinary parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51270	Two minutes have been used by the MPs' group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51271	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I did not understand the purpose of the previous amendment. But what I didn't understand, maybe it's my problem. But they probably didn't understand the country's citizens either. I can't understand what a patched-up Prime Minister means. Certainly, Serbia does not need a rested Prime Minister, but that is why the president is not from your party, but from the DS. If we needed a rested Prime Minister, maybe he'd be from your party. Since it is not patched up, it is a man who has full integrity and maintains the integrity of both the government and the Republic of Serbia, such a Prime Minister is certainly in need of Serbia. This morning, I had my best man at Krushevac. The man came in, brought a bag and carried something in that bag. I say to him, "What did you bring to the godfather?" It's full of bags, it's heavy. Why do you wear them at that age? He says, son, the hardest is an empty bag. It's the hardest thing to say to me. It's not as heavy an empty bag as my empty words. Listening to empty words is no privilege. Last time I read something from the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia and there is no need to repeat it. Repeating is a mother of success only for good students. Bad students aren't worth repeating. Bad students sit among repeaters and try to get better, and good students go ahead and finish schools and colleges. But because of you, who say Serbia needs elections, some better government and some government that will not know what to do, I will remind the citizens of Serbia again – you were able to show what you know and how much you are worth. In this very town of Kruševec, from which I come, there is a suburban village called Lazarica. There's an oak, a living record, so large, a couple hundred years old. If I lived like that oak-recorded, for one 200 years, maybe I'd let you go, because four years in that oak's life are nothing. But my life isn't 200 years old, my life is biologically limited, and I don't have time to let go worse than myself, who already showed what they know, how much they can and how much they're worth, to learn again. (President: People's MP, please let the oak and everything else be related to the amendment. ) So I did not understand the content of the amendments, and I believe that this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51272	Two minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Otto Kishmarton has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51273	Dear fellow Members of the People, as for the bag, and I met a woman, I see a bag full of bags, and I ask, Grandma, is that a heavy bag for you? She says it's not hard, but it's very expensive. As for citizens' opinions about this government, about the government's reconstruction, about what citizens think and what they say, I can't talk about it, because the President of the Assembly is going to punish me for saying what is not appropriate to the Assembly. Otherwise, the amendment is very clear. In this law, both this member and Article 4 wants to impose on the future Prime Minister to have some authority, because it is known to everyone that the Government is not also governed by the Prime Minister. That's what we've heard, these days it's been said on TV, that others run this government. So we are now passing a law that must be respected by the Prime Minister and that the Prime Minister must have authority, and in normal countries it is perfectly normal for the Prime Minister to have authority and listen to what he says. Furthermore, the Prime Minister has only now noticed that in the government, each minister is leading his portfolio in the manner that corresponds to his party and that each minister is making statements that correspond to his party, not to the government and to this state. He's been in power for three years, and now, before the elections, he wants to change the Government Act and change ministers. This should have been done much earlier, so as not to cause this damage to Serbia and to make these bags cheaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51274	Two minutes and ten seconds of the parliamentary group were used. MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51275	Dear Vice President, you said we couldn't ask the Minister any questions while advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here I am in this time, which is scheduled for it, asking the minister if he resigned to the Prime Minister. Without a solution to that previous question, we cannot continue the debate. In the words of Mr Milivojevic, if you resigned, then everything you say here today will be empty words.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51276	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51277	I will speak within the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group and try to make this story serious. Someone might want to talk about the government's savings changes to the Law on Government and ministries translated into a field of humor, insights and supersedes of this type, but Serbia's citizens have no idea of humor and laughter, and how much the government's proposal is talking about, and how far that SNS proposal went on 16 December of last year, the bill proposals speak for themselves. Translated to numbers, that's what it looks like. For example, we have proposed that the current 60 state secretaries be replaced by our legal solutions in a maximum of 12 deputy ministers. So much for a precise calculation of who has the quality of solutions and who wants to save. I know there are good students here, who sometimes deliberately won't hear a good solution, and that's politically acceptable, but logic and responsible attitude towards citizens won't allow you to keep your mouth shut about what you actually understood. Yesterday, we said -- it is not acceptable, under the Constitution, for the Prime Minister to be at the same time as the Minister, because he cannot perform, either under the Constitution, two public functions, for this to require permission from the agency, nor is it possible to coordinate work with himself. On the other hand, Article 2, which during the fourth year of office, the Prime Minister prescribes that the secretaries, members of the government and directors of special organisations are obliged to respect and implement the mandatory instructions and responsibilities assigned to them by the Prime Minister, in a similar policy, is indeed excessive. We have requested an amendment to delete, because the imperative provision, the order to respect the government's policy, and that it is not sanctioned, is offensive. Do you know why? When government members misused classified information on the state of the debt, on the financial data of this state, and at the expense of that, they earned millions of euros, became presidents of the boards of directors, took advances for it or were later paid, they were not even punished under the Labour Act, under Article 182 of the competition clause. A color store salesman cannot go to work with another employer and invites his customers from that store because it is an abuse of information he acquired in the previous store, but in Serbia the previous minister can establish and falsely call the investment bank a consulting house called "Altis", and his name was also Božidar Djelic, and that he does six months of business by not opening the giro-account of the organisation and that he boasts about how much he has earned, giving and dealing with financial consulting services. Such behavior was recommended for the next government. And such a relationship with the use of information, respect for government policy or respect for citizens has today led to absurdity by the position of Article 2(1) where ministers are ordered to respect and follow instructions. I don't want to quote how journalists do it, in an ugly way, what they actually require. Freedom of opinion and expression of views, guaranteed by the Constitution, is at stake here. So you can abuse citizens' money, abuse powers and functions, as I said in the parliamentary question -- and funds for the health of citizens, but just don't question the survival of the government. It's for those who didn't understand the essence of Article 1 or our amendment, or for those who say that the SNS has no program or no solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51278	Five minutes have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51279	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would use the right to replicate Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's previous exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51280	You wouldn't be able to use the line 'cause you don't have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51281	Then you'll give me the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51282	The time of the parliamentary group can.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51283	In Serbia, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic depends whether we let someone into his house or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51284	You would have to bring Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic into contact with the amendment, which reads: 'Article 1. The bill deletes everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51285	Of course, I'll bring him, if you'll let me. And whether someone will lead Serbia depends on the citizens of Serbia. Whether someone will come to power depends on Serbian citizens in the snap parliamentary elections. Instead of a godfather with an empty...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51286	I don't want to intervene, but you would also have to bring extraordinary parliamentary elections and citizens of Serbia into contact with the words 'delegate'.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51287	You won't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51288	I allow you to use the time of the parliamentary group to speak of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51289	Instead of a godmother with an empty bag, I would prefer that employees of the Zupa Chemical Industry from Kruševac, who, by privatising such a government, lost their jobs in Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, risking the collapse of the complete water supply system in Serbia, because it is the only firm that supplies liquid chlorine to all Serbia. I wish the workers of "Merima" had come, also from Krushevac, who worked at "Merima"...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51290	I'm asking you most nicely, regarding the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51291	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51292	Thank you. I really appreciate it. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51293	Given that the amendment reads "wipes," what I'm about to say must have something to do with the Serbian government. So, I ask the question of the Minister -- how does he think that he's blasphemy and that silence and that smile, that I don't say keza, insults the MPs, and you don't see it...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51294	People's MP, and I'd like to ask you to make a provision of the Rules of Procedure on Address...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51295	All right, you remind me, just let me say it. Because I represent 200,000 voters, not you...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51296	People's MP, the Rules of Procedure obliges me to take care of the order. It doesn't mean that every single one of us does everything he can, breaking the Rules of Procedure, and that's when I start taking care of the order. So, no offensive expressions and the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51297	The topic is whether the National Assembly violates the law by being a government minister in resignation. Because if we ask a question, and we don't have an answer, and one of the government ministers is silent and laughing at us, then we think he stole something...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51298	People's MP, the answer to that question... I ask you to listen, since you are now speaking in violation of the obligation of the members of the Rules of Procedure that obliges you to maintain the reputation of the National Assembly. You have received the answer to a multiple questions and please speak on the subject of the agenda – discussion in particular, amendment to article 1 on amendments to the Government's law. Either we will all together respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or we have mutual difficulties in understanding that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure apply only to those of the others. They don't work. It applies equally to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51299	I demand that my question be answered whether we're breaking the law now, because I don't want to take part in it. I understand it doesn't matter to you, and there's a little and a big violation of the law, and it's always someone else's fault. We're interested in these things. For a clear question we got a smile – boasting a smile, and that's why I used the word "chez" not to offend someone, but I don't know how to say it differently – and silence and arrogance. You've kept it quiet, as in the amendment to delete yourself, you found a connection to a hundred-year-old oak. That didn't bother you, but it bothers you when the opposition speaks, and this 'Swedish Progressive Party', which divorces along with the Democrats here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51300	Please, I warn you either follow the course of the session carefully or seek the right to receive word of injury from the Rules of Procedure. All MPs receive a certain time to speak on the subject of the agenda, and every messenger of the people is warned, for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly does not apply to the majority and to the opposition, but to the MPs of the people. Some MPs return to the topic, some not. Those who do not, will be warned and asked once more. Here, for example, I ask you for the third time – on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51301	I think it's very much about the topic of the agenda, given that the topic is to amend and supplement the Government Act. Just because you don't see the connection, just means you don't want to see it. Since this is a violation of the same government law, I cannot find a clearer link between the topic of the agenda and what I'm talking about, only it's a problem for us to break that law and for you – you're either breaking it or you're arrogant and boastful. We're just asking for an answer, nothing else. Tell us the minister didn't resign, so let's keep working. Since it suits you to talk about this, not the subject of the law, and you think you'll get away with your partner "Swedish Progressive Party," you'll go through it together, as the DS is going through today. There's no dilemma about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51302	People's MP, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51303	Don't beg me anymore. If you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, give me a warning. Don't beg me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51304	I have to ask you, because I don't want to be involved with you in the unpleasant applications of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51305	Well, you're not my shrink, you know. At least you're a Nightingale, so somehow we'll meet. We do politics here, you understand? You still insist on breaking the law and taking away our word because... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51306	That's all you think. People's MP, you're dealing with a breach of the Rules of Procedure here. I'm trying to keep order at the session, not to jeopardize freedom of speech when it comes to this subject, but there are limits. Thank you. Minister Milan Markovic answered the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51307	Mr. Andric, away from me wanting in any way to be boastful or to laugh at someone. I know so many people here and we have regular communication and we smile at each other on that basis, and I'm sorry, I know I don't belong in a circle of people with whom you have that kind of communication, but I haven't even laughed at you or talked to you. Just don't be mad. But the last thing I would do, because I've been an MP for so many years, is be arrogant. Secondly, you're very scarred, which is again a matter of your temperament, but I can't discuss that relationship. As for my correspondence with the Prime Minister, I cannot speak publicly about this correspondence. Please make that perfectly clear. The issue of relations within a government, talks between ministers and talks on the minister's relationship -- the Prime Minister -- is something that will be presented in a manner determined by the Prime Minister. Secondly, even if the Prime Minister has informed the National Assembly that a minister has resigned, which, as far as I know, the Prime Minister has not done, nor has any resignation arrived in the Assembly, unless I am wrong, for the G17 ministers, it is entirely irrelevant for this discussion. So the minister in resignation can also do current jobs. The minister of resignation can even pass regulations, which is one of the minister's greatest incoherent powers, allow me. I'm sorry that the laws here are really interpreted according to their own needs. This is completely explicit, completely clear. So he can even lay down rules when certain reasons require it. If I have to remind you, we had ministers who had been in resignation for nine months, so that wasn't a problem. But I repeat, if I had a correspondence with the Prime Minister and what correspondence I had, I have no intention of speaking publicly, nor is that relevant to the work of the National Assembly. If, on account of doubts in the newspaper article, the National Assembly interprets the law in the way it interprets it (read you), then let the National Assembly decide that I do not attend the session. I don't know why you're kind of trying to provoke me and why you're so angry. I don't see any reason to be so bitter. You can say that, if the National Assembly decides to say here – we read in the newspaper, so we suspect, we don't want you to sit here, it's your right again. Therefore, whether or not I had a correspondence with the Prime Minister, I do not want to talk about it, and even if the resignation of the minister has arrived here, it does not mean that the minister cannot sit down and represent the government's position, especially in the situation in which we are now, when it comes to the government law and the ministry law. Your interpretation is completely wrong, but here, my God, every one of us interprets the law as he loves, in his own way. There are committees here, and let them, in the end, be clear about it. There's also the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the National Assembly, who takes care of the order in the National Assembly, I can't get involved in it. You think it's easy for me? I'm sitting here a moment ago, asking the question, there's a bunch of lies, and it's insinuating even that someone started a fire to burn itself, to get out of the payment documents in the King, and I want to answer it, and the chairman says -- you can't answer that, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. Dura lex, sed lex. Bad law, but the law. So if you're in the mood to talk about laws and amendments, I'm in the mood. If you're not, I'm sitting here, and I'll be available to anyone who wants to ask about the law. The question you ask absolutely cannot be answered in the way you want, nor does it have any effect on the course of discussion and on the work of the National Assembly on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51308	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51309	The fact that someone in the resignation or does not produce legal consequences, and that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51310	People's MP, I most seriously remind you of the obligation to comply with the 106 provision to speak on the subject of the agenda. We are currently under discussion on details, amendment to Article 1. If anyone thinks... The emissaries are getting it. Please don't throw it away. For everything, it's true. Business provisions apply equally to the minister and each participant at the session. If you'd like me to give you an answer with a pitch, I'd be happy to. So, the minister is allowed to speak for three minutes, since four MPs insist that he answer a question. Aging on the agenda also means allowing the minister to answer the question. Whether or not he answered the question, it's up to you. So either you listened or you didn't, whether you got an answer to the question or not, that's for each of the MPs the minister addressed. The debate is currently in particular, the amendment to the Government's draft law. On the agenda, please. (Employees earning: Time) Please do not throw 'time', since no MP has been taken up time to explain what the chairman is giving. National MP Ivan Andric, for the overall interventions, was written to use one minute of the parliamentary group's time. Go on, MP, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51311	I just want to talk about the agenda, because the agenda is the government and the debate on the Government Act. You are now preventing me from obtaining one piece of information that depends on the further work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51312	I'm warning you now. The agenda is a discussion in particular, amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act. Either you talk about the agenda, or we will secure the agenda by applying all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51313	I'd like to ask you if we could get an answer from the minister or from you, from whom it depends...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51314	People's MP, thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. He gave up. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51315	Mrs. Komic, I'm advertising Article 107, the dignity you've hurt as chairman. I'll explain it in a very clear way. We can agree, I agree with you that it is necessary to introduce some normal way of communicating with each other. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, but we can't build normal relationships through abnormal procedures. Two days ago, the Prime Minister sent us a letter informing us that because Parliament, which otherwise does not want to come, will not fulfil its legal obligation and propose to Parliament what it is required to do in accordance with the law, and these are the names of persons who will assume the functions of ministers who have resigned because it would injure our dignity. It is not possible, Mrs Comic, to defend Parliament's dignity by breaking the law. It's an excuse for sloppyness, impotence and chaos in which the government is in, which is why she was unable to do the jobs she was required to do within two weeks. Of course we have the understanding of the Minister's right to have some internal communication with the Prime Minister, but we have no understanding for the Prime Minister, who, the MPs who pass the laws, asks us to agree with his ambition to violate those laws on behalf of our dignity. That's why we're here asking Minister Markovic for answers, because it's only the Prime Minister who can defend the law here, in accordance with the law we previously passed. You retain your internal relationship with the Prime Minister, but at this point there is no one in the state who can defend these laws in accordance with the law, except the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic. That's our problem. It's very hard to go down on your head here all day and agree to that amount of madness we're facing. Believe me, it's hard for the ruling coalition, but it's hard for us, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51316	People's MP, you haven't explained in any sentence what my violation of article 107 consists of. You feel that the Prime Minister has not done a good thing, you believe that the present minister has not given the right answer, but your obligation, when you call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, is to say what my violation is. You didn't do that, so then we agree there's no damage to article 107. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51317	I was just trying to have our conversation in such a way that even in mutual relations, we wouldn't agree to those rules that they were forced to agree to. Mrs. Komic, you chair this assembly, answer us whether the person who came here is under the law that stems from the government's obligation to represent the interests of the government, the person who does so in accordance with the law or is in conflict with the law. If he is in conflict with the law, it would not be the first time in this session, because we have already been confronted with a letter from the Prime Minister in which he calmly informs us that he is protecting our dignity by disobeying the laws that we as Parliament have passed. There is an injured reputation and dignity of Parliament and you are obliged to guarantee us, take that obligation upon yourself, that Milan Markovic performs here in accordance with the law, and we will no longer have any problem. None of us will tell you that you're telling the truth, because we have no arguments about something like that, but of course we can't ignore the reality in which we're exposed to the facts that require us to ask this question. We are not asking you to describe your relationship with the Prime Minister, but if the ministers have signed resignations, then they cannot, in accordance with the law that is in force, rely on the right that comes from this law - to come here and represent the Government. You're the chairman, you told us that they represent the government, you invited the government to send its president. Tell me if it's in accordance with the law or not, and we'll just end this dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51318	You did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was violated in the second report. If you were to say 107, I'd have to interrupt you, because you can't appeal to a breach of the same provision. So, you didn't say Article 107, but from your explanation, I concluded that this was about my violation, that is, a violation of the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly. Minister Milan Markovic, Minister Oliver Dulic and other government representatives are attending a session of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51319	Mr. Jovanovic, I claim that my presence here is perfectly legal, regardless of the communication I do not want to talk about, and it would be legal, and I hold you responsible, all and that my resignation is in the National Assembly. So that's really my attitude. Just like it's legal and sitting in a government session even if my resignation was here. And even if I voted in government sessions, Mr. Jovanovic. (President: Minister, I have been warned that you must speak on the agenda. I wanted to say this. So it's a completely irrelevant topic for us to open it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51320	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51321	Ma'am, the replica. And I just...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51322	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51323	He mentioned me by my name.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51324	It's possible, but not in an offensive way and not with a basis for replication. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to Article 1? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. National MP Dragan Colic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51325	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51326	People's MP, I'm sorry, it's my fault. I have not heard that MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure at the moment I gave you my word. I'm sorry, my bad. People's Cedomir Jovanovic, the right to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51327	Mrs. Komic, Article 27, the authority of the president or the chairman. It's not the basis for our mutual communication just a previous willingness to insult ourselves, is it? Mr. Markovic didn't understand me. In my replica, I wanted to say to him, among other things, that we lost 30 minutes because he wasn't ready to say what he said in the end half an hour ago. I don't think he came here because he's obsessed with Parliament. He took on the responsibility that everyone else escaped from. He thinks and is convinced to act in accordance with the law. What we expect him to understand is, to the same extent that we understand his confidence, our belief that Parliament is in trouble if he signs his resignation to the Prime Minister. That's what this is about. As a result, there are some institutions in the congregation that are competent to solve such problems, to interpret the law. We will not, Mrs Comic, agree to enter into Parliament the degree of chaos that the government itself has agreed to. Two days ago, the Prime Minister sent us a letter saying that because of our dignity, he would not obey the law. Even Mr Markovic himself said at one point – in the situation we are in, we must act like this. Well, that's what we're looking for, you know, understanding, consulting the heads of parliament groups, looking for a reasonable way out of it. Don't expect us to agree to what the ruling coalition has agreed to, which doesn't even sit here anymore. There are more LDP MPs than the entire ruling coalition. That's what this is about. If we can understand each other, if you said what you said 30 minutes ago, there'd be less trouble, and there's no personal animosity in what we're doing, a desire to deepen conflicts and contribute to this chaos that we live in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51328	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. And your explanation is missing, since Minister Milan Markovic said the same thing he said 30 minutes ago. I have full understanding, and by taking care of order, I mean opening up room for dialogue, especially when it comes to issues like this, but I only ask for respect for the Rules of Procedure, as much as possible. So I ask you to stop misappropriation of the Rules of Procedures that involve multiple repetitions of the same question, which I should not allow, and the carrying out of falseness. The word has Minister Milan Markovic. About the agenda, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51329	If I may just say, I'm sorry, I didn't expect this to become a topic. It's my fault that after the first speaker, I didn't say my position, because then maybe we'd avoid this debate, and in that sense I'm asking you to accept my apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51330	Minister, I have suggestions from the MPs to warn you. It's interesting how the MPs like the Institute of Warning and Penalties when it comes to the minister, but when it comes to us, the MPs, we don't like it. He can't do both. The minister said 30 minutes ago, you can look at the stenogram, that correspondence between him and the Prime Minister is not a topic for the assembly session and explained the legality. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. Repeat – in accordance with Article 27, which obliges me to take care of the agenda, this session will be held in order to discuss the subject. Or the MP Ivan Andric and I will stop laughing together, which I do not believe will happen. Thank you. In the words of the People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton. I apologize, First People's MP Zoran Ostojić wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51331	Article 103 speaks of aging order. By my judgment and by the court of most MPs in the O.R., I believe and the ruling coalition...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51332	Article 103 doesn't talk about aging order. Please read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51333	Aging is the order of the law, and if the minister has resigned, he can perform the current... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51334	People's MP, you can't repeat the remark that the Rules of Procedure have been broken in things that have already been mentioned. National MP Dragan Colic wanted a word. I apologize to Parliamentarian Otto Kishmarton and you for replacing the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51335	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia" of the Serbian Progressive Party, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which reads: 'Article 13 is amended and reads: The Deputy Prime Minister shall assist the Prime Minister in carrying out the affairs and replace the Prime Minister during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister. The Deputy Prime Minister shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, or Prime Minister. On a proposal from the Prime Minister, the Government shall designate one resolute minister, who shall replace the Prime Minister during the absence or prevention of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister with all powers of the Prime Minister, with the exception of the power to propose elections or discharge of a member of the Government and to submit a motion for a vote of confidence to the Government. Article 13a deletes everything. In a clear and complete manner, the amendment regulates the way in which the government's vice-presidents are elected, which is significantly better than the current law and in accordance with the good practice and laws of the regulated states. It also regulates the way in which one member of the government is appointed from the line of ministers, who would replace the Prime Minister during the simultaneous absence or prevention of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and his authority. The proposal that the Deputy Prime Minister may be and the minister is contrary to Article 125(1). The constitution, since this provision specifically cites the functions of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers as members of the Government, so that these functions are incompatible. At the same time, the need for Article 13a ceases, and its erasure is proposed. It's too late at the government's lie store to put on a company of truth and to show the whites of the grandmother better and younger. This government and every minister in it, and the lion's skin to wear, will be seen again by donkey ears.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51336	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. People's MP, you've been recorded in the system. Would you like a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51337	Thank you. How can I warn now that, without breaking the Rules of Procedure, there are no more citizens left behind? And who do we have to explain the amendments with now? Who should we talk to? Cvetkovic is in Turkey, the resignation minister, who doesn't have the right to be here with reporters anyway? With who, with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51338	Thank you. I understand that it's an attempt to speak on the subject of the agenda, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51339	It's an attempt to warn you that there are no proposing representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51340	National MP, the proposing representative has the right to be absent from the session as much as necessary to carry out other tasks. This applies to Minister Milan Markovic, as well as to any other minister, so that this session runs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51341	I would like to continue the debate on the Law on Government, because you will never get used to disrespecting the law or the Rules of Procedure, but we have received a written document that the Prime Minister considers the destruction of the dignity of MPs when working past the law, and a very serious law, which produces terrible consequences for the citizens of Serbia, and it was called the Law on PIO (I know that, Mrs. Komic, you remember well, and I do), we discussed without the presence of a minister because it was an interpretation that it was enough for the government to deliver paper and write down who was authorized to represent the Government, but that you did not have to sit there. I won't get used to a government official not being there to discuss this, but I won't let the most serious talk about amending the Government Act and wasting time turn Serbian citizens into a debate that over the bridge, for which someone is trying to use the SNS, replace some witty content on television or anywhere. I want to, on behalf of the citizens we represent here, talk seriously about the Government Act, and Article 3 is just like that. You've lost a lot of time to yourself and the citizens since 16 December, not trying to put our drafts on the agenda and to react to the amendment. You came out very late with a bill of government, which is not a fundamental saving. It is said that the stories of the 2008 savings are in the statements of former Minister Dinkic, now fellow MPs, here I have some interviews that some development funds will integrate with others, we will talk about when there is a law on ministries, and the need for the government to take the crisis more seriously by saving first on itself, and you haven't even used this occasion, to discuss the difference between mandate and authority on Article 3. We have submitted an amendment to Article 3 in which we say that you can't because of the currently disturbed relations within the coalition that you bring a provision under which the Prime Minister will consider the Prime Minister to be completely disfellowshipped, regardless of when the resignation arrives in the Assembly or when the resolution is established. I agree with you that the Constitution in Article 133 allows the position and authority of a member of the Government who has resigned or who is subject to a motion for a resolution until the end of the term of office to be governed by the law. So it is not a questionable possibility that the law regulates the confiscation of authority by the Prime Minister, but it is disputed that what remains at this time is undefined what is the mandate and what is the authority. And that empty walk, between the mandate that has been found in the Assembly as a permanent mandate and technical performance, is currently creating a problem that some others are opening today. So, you have, as Government, the right to regulate the way you exercise authority by law, but it is not done when you argue within the government, because a serious state operates with institutions that it has in a decent number, which performs its function and which can sustain and endure this economy. The functioning of the state is not left to the conscience of the individual, but to the regulated rules, and they are not even now, when the opportunity is used here and not properly arranged. That's why I think this amendment should have opened up your different solution that will remain permanent, not any law being a cause for solving the current problem, which always comes down to the skill of the rest of this coalition in power, which is simply unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51342	Two minutes and 40 seconds of time have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Martinovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia". The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first thing about the bill. The first law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was passed after the introduction of a multilateral political system, the 1991 Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, used the name of this state body adequately. So, according to the 1991 Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was valid until 2005, the government of this country was called the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now this state body is called only the Government and we in the SRS think it's a major failure. Secondly, the new Article 26a contains a matter that is not a matter of law at all but of matter, at best, a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government. The new member of 26a is missing. Therefore, Article 26a states: "Government members, state secretaries and directors of special organisations and government services are obliged to express and represent the government's views in public statements and performances. "The SRS is interested in where the ministerial assistants were lost and where have the directors of the management body been lost as part of the respective ministries? It turns out that this obligation, which is not in the legal sense of that word, does not apply to the assistant ministers and directors of the administration's body in the form of ministries. I would like to remind you of the provisions of the Law on the State Administration of the Republic of Serbia, under which the authorities of the administration are also the authorities of the state administration. Then the question arises whether this means, if we literally interpret a new member of 26a, that the assistant ministers and directors of the administration's body as ministers can in public represent their private views, not the government's views. Otherwise, this new member of 26a is from a legal point of view absolutely pointless. If in one member of the law you say that a legal entity, including members of the government, is obliged to do or refrain from doing something, then that duty only makes sense if it is followed by an appropriate sanction. The SRS asks the question – what is the sanctions for the minister? Is it, for example, the Secretary of State or the Director of a Special Organization (Here, to use your words) that do not represent the Government's views in the public but rejects their private views from pay? Will he be subjected to any disciplinary action? What sanctions will these people suffer if they do not respect this new member of the 26th Law on Government? There is not a single word in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act. Then what is their obligation? Well, we'd say it's purely platonic. They can, but they don't have to comply with this article of the law, simply because they won't suffer any adverse consequences unless they follow this new member of the 26th. What is the political motivation to introduce this new member into the Government Act? Motivation is very simple. The government of the Republic of Serbia has taken on a rather difficult job – that someone who otherwise does not have political authority should have the authority through legal standards. No government has ever done so in the history of the state and the law has ever gone hand in hand. If one person in his own right is not a political authority, if he has no influence on the members of the government, on the members of the party from which he originates, on members of the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, then there is no law on the Government that does not possess this original and primary political authority, that authority may give. I will try not to be too personal in these performances because, ultimately, individuals in this whole story are not that important, but I'm sorry, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, even after this new government law, will not have that political authority because he doesn't own it right now. And you can write a hundred times that the minister, state secretary and director of a special organization is obliged to represent the government's views in public and not your personal views, but you can thus not create the authority of the current Prime Minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. If you were watching "The Impression of the Week" on TV B92, which was hosted by the current Prime Minister, could you get the impression that this man had any authority? Except that he smiled coerced and smiled a hundred times on the show and said "let me tell you", he didn't say anything essential – about the government's leadership, about why the government's reconstruction is going to be, who's going to be the new ministers... Otherwise, that information is hidden like a snake's foot. I don't know if the new ministers in the Serbian government will be citizens of the Republic of Serbia or whether they will be nationals of a foreign state, so their names are hidden. What is it disputed that someone who is Prime Minister will say – instead of that minister, a new minister will come to his place, and for this and that function is recommended by him and that? From that show, from Mr Cvetkovic's public appearance, I couldn't get the impression that he had any political authority. I had the impression that he was very uncomfortable on the show and that he would rather be at home, not on that show defending a government that no one in the world could defend. Not because it's made up of bad ministers, but because it leads a bad policy. And there's no government law that can make a good government out of a bad government. What makes a government good is not a government law, but a government policy. What is the policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It's jumbled. The best evidence of this is what will happen this year in the capital of the Republic of Serbia, in Belgrade. In March, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia will host Vladimir Putin, president of the Russian Federation government. It should probably be a sign that the Republic of Serbia is ready to establish comprehensive co-operation with the Russian Federation. Three months later, the same Belgrade will hold a NATO conference, an international military organisation that acts exactly the opposite of the UN's Charter and, by the way, whose member the Republic of Serbia is not at all. Now a fundamental question arises – is there any clear foreign policy orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You can't be little for the Russians, so little for the Americans, so little for NATO, so a little against NATO, so you're a little ready to recognise independent Kosovo, so you're not a bit. Such a policy, which has been conducted in the Republic of Serbia for ten years and more, has led us to the fact that our reputation in international relations is none, that the citizens of Serbia live as the citizens of Moldova, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan. Even those in Albania and Montenegro have a better standard than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We act like no state in modern Europe behaves. We're the only state who's willing to conduct talks with someone who represents an independent state, and that's her view that part of the territory is status neutral. What does that mean? This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia itself does not believe that Kosovo and Metohija are part of it. How are we going to convince the Americans, the French, the Germans, the English, the Italians that they were wrong when they admitted KIM as an independent state if the Republic of Serbia itself didn't believe it? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia believe that Serbia's borders are on the Curse and not on the Copalnik? I don't believe that. How is it possible that talks with self-called representatives of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo are being conducted by the political director of the foreign ministry? Take the current Ministry Act. The foreign ministry, as it calls it, is engaged in representing the state in international relations. If the talks with the Shiptars in KIM are led by the foreign ministry's political director, it means that the Republic of Serbia has admitted in fact that KIM is not an integral part of it. Even if you add to that the frequent statements by Mr Borko Stefanovic and other government representatives that the talks are status neutral, that means that the Republic of Serbia itself does not recognise the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and does not recognise Resolution 1244, which guarantees that the only thing KiM can gain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia is broad autonomy. Will this law increase the authority of the current and future members of the government? Here's today's paper full of a bit of bizarre information. I'm not going to name a man who's going to be a culture minister even though he hasn't graduated from college. I don't think it's that bad, but let me, it's still a phenomenon that's not quite common. In one government of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, there was a minister who had only completed primary school since school. At the time, the policy used to be that whenever a new government was drawn up (and otherwise, there were many governments in that inter-war period, more than 20), the biographies of new ministers were announced. What kind of biography can someone who's graduated from primary school have? And the man realized that in his biography he had been dealing with political and economic issues since his earliest childhood. We will come to the same situation, that important social resources will be led by people who have been dealing with political, economic, military, cultural issues since childhood, who knows what issues, but who has not been able to graduate from these important state affairs. At the same time, man should represent someone who calls himself an expert political party and for whom expertise is above politics. Here is, about, a brief political sketch of the current, and especially the future Government of the Republic of Serbia, which this country will receive next week. So, to finish my presentation, the government law is bad, unspeakable and contains norms that are business and not legal. After all, this law will not achieve its purpose. There's no law in the world that can give political authority to someone who doesn't have political authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51344	Ten minutes and 30 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS Parliament Club has submitted this amendment, as well as everyone else, in order to try to prevent you from passing a very bad law. However, thank God, and if you vote him, it won't take long, because very soon the extraordinary parliamentary elections, after which all these bad laws will be changed. This member and this amendment show, in fact, why all this is happening to Serbia. Even the reasons for adopting both of these bill proposals are, in my opinion, in this article of the law. That's what I was saying yesterday, in principle debate, and today I'm going to do some things from there again. Namely, the problem arises when Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic said in an interview that he, primarily from the DS, is jealous and most of them semitronic and incompetent, that President Tadic did not put his best people in the government. So these are all quotes. And that's not an attitude. For example, paragraph 2 reads: "The government's decision is required to represent the public and member of the government who voted against it or was abstentioned." Article 1 states: "Members of the Government, State Secretary and Directors of Special Organisations and Service of the Government are obliged to express and represent the views of the Government in public statements and performances in public." He did not express the government's views but spoke of his vision of the government. So that's his view, he didn't comment on any government decisions, he didn't say anything contrary to the government's decision. The statement also gave the presidency, and what is most important, in my opinion (and this is gone from the media and I will keep talking about it), that as a member of the government, he said that he was not ruling in Serbia, but that he was deciding in the centres of power, outside the government. As a MP, I am interested in what the centres of power are and I think that the G17 plus after that statement is obliged to tell Serbia who these centres of power are being decided outside the government. That's what he has to insist on. 'Cause I guess the government's run by the state, they can't run by some power centers they didn't choose... MPs are elected by the government, MPs are elected by the people. So, we'll be responsible to the people, not to those centers of power, for us and for the ministers in the government. I'm interested in who your centers are. And then, in order to be quiet and no one from the government would say that, because when the opposition talks, it's her job, but when someone from the government says it, then it's the kind of attitude that it says -- the government's decision is required to represent in public a member of the government who voted against it or was abstentioned. This is as embarrassing as the Information Act you've brought. Do you think the public and citizens of Serbia have no right to hear why some government minister voted against a certain decision, a stance, a bill? So where is it, in what democratic state? You want to lead Serbia into the EU? Of course, a man has the right to speak his mind and, if he doesn't like it, to resign to the Prime Minister, to replace him, but where does it have to be that a minister who votes against a decision does not have the right to, when he leaves the cabinet session, say what he voted for and that he has to explain and support the position of those who were most in the government and voted for something? And the whole bill of law is scandalous, and this attitude and this member, and everyone who thinks of yourself as Democrats, and you want the state to be democratic, and you're MPs and you have integrity, and your mandate belongs to you, can't be taken away from you (here, you've seen on my case), don't let this happen. Vote for this amendment. Because it doesn't mean anything, we've already heard it. No punishment, no sanctions, but don't let Serbia get confused and write something like this in one of our laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51346	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51347	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should now be serious about this bill and this really more than Mr. Martinovic's proposal to delete this proposed Article 4, but I cannot be a little ironic about this proposed member of the law, given everything that has happened in the past. The impression that exists among Serbian citizens is not only what we claim here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the old-new Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has absolutely no authority, but, believe me, in the city where I live, whenever I meet any individual, middle-aged, younger, older man, no one can tell me that he has memorized any sentence ever spoken by Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic. But that's why there are all those false promises that you made, I think first of all about you from the DS, him as prime minister, at all the then proposed ministers, during the exposure to the exposé in 2008, and we are now in one situation that you want this non-existent authority of the government, which was not actually created at the true election will of citizens, but with the dictatorship of the centre of power outside Serbia, Washington and Brussels, to return by changing first the laws on government and ministries, and then with these codes, the rules of conduct, to convince the citizens of Serbia that these ministers will be disciplined, to work in the interest and to implement some policy that, for God's sake, will improve this catastrophic situation where we are. You know what, it's really easy, I've said it before, and I think Serbia's citizens will agree with me, Mr. Sinisha Pavic, who makes this series of "White Ships", whose new episodes we watch on Sunday nights, and it's not even a coincidence that some of the staffs were recorded right here in this room, or in the House of the People's Hall, because it's our sad picture and reality in Serbia. If you are so sure and if Mirko Cvetkovic is such a new authority, which he cannot possibly get because I am not a political person who can implement it, then why introduce this member, and especially this position 2 that says the government's decision is obliged to represent in public a member of the government who voted against it or was abstentioned? That's never been done before. Why do you oblige ministers who had a different opinion or attitude not to bring it out in public? And what kind of democracy is that between you two? Here yesterday morning, it seems to me on one television with a national frequency, was the editor of a daily list read in Serbia. As editor of the list, he wondered how it was possible that he or his colleagues could not, in the future, receive from a minister a position that reflects the position of his party or, in the end, its political party. Because you're one, you'll admit, a strange coalition. The dissonant tones have been from the very beginning, but you have decided to introduce this member into the law and propose to the future ministers to be calm as bugs only when he started very undisciplinedly from that cliché to pop up Mladjan Dinkic, who is now no longer the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, but is an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here we are in the assembly benches sitting our fellow honourable MP, Mr. Milorad Buha, who is also today the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, unfortunately in persecution. Ask a man if he had thought of such a thing, that at any time the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of Republika Srpska would suggest introducing such codes of conduct, and he would, I believe, later on talk about this amendment. Of course, if it wasn't sad, it would be funny. Because if someone is nationalally responsible, if they represent a single interest, as those people at the helm with him and work here in Serbia today, in the queen, because the Western Serbian country is occupied, then the question that is mistrust is raised. You know, even kids at school wouldn't suggest this. Because this is really so unserious, we can't seriously talk about this, Mrs. Comic. And good for you because Mr Krasic said the day before yesterday in what Hope Kolundžija said, the question is how will you continue to lead your policy and which direction you will go. This Mr. Styrofoam can go both north and south, both east and west, and spill some parole and flossules here, and be educated in the 60s. Of course, it's a character from Pavić's series, but please, if you're talking about people who are going to be serious about taking over the minister's functions in the future, as you're telling us here, if you're distracting citizens with the fact that you're going to introduce some grace period (imagine that) for their loans, and they're in charge over their heads, then in 2013, when you and this Styrofoam make a new coalition on the orders of Washington and Brussels, they're going to be able to return their loans regularly and all the bills they have on various banks that operate here on favourable terms. Mrs. Comic, this is an unserious bill. This Article 4 or the addition of Article 26a, which Mr Martinović asks the amendment to delete, is the greatest laugh, and, ultimately, the suspicion of the government's intention to work homogeneously in the interests of citizens, has caused not only the MPs, but, as I told you, also the media's followers, who are more than laughing at this all these days, because we know that both Mr Krkobic and the G17 representatives, who have come out, but will, of course, have their ministers and their resolutions in the government as well as other DS coalition partners and how to be dissatisfied. For what? Well, because it's their most important chair, to stay in power, and every entry into some resort, every political interference in the way they don't accept it for them will be a reminder by the Prime Minister, who, by the way, speaks the same tone, absolutely, whatever it is. God forbid there's an earthquake, I don't know how many degrees of Richter scale, Mirko Cvetkovic would sit there and say in the same tone that he doesn't know, that he's wondering if it's one way or another. Such a government, with such a president and such measures, for which there are no sanctions, of course there will be no longevity, nor will it bring any better for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51348	Seven minutes and 45 seconds have been used by the MPs' group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51349	Mrs. Comic, I don't know what's wrong with me, but this week I'm really just praising the government. I also have reason to praise her. Natasha made one mistake, the people did remember one statement from the Prime Minister – that we had come out of the crisis according to statistics. There's no Mrs. Comic. It's that biggest sketch, which we still had a chance to hear. By the way, I'm gonna start with a manners to praise this government. You see, on the seventh page of this bill, there is a declaration of compliance with EU rules. Imagine, the EU does not have a common regulation governing the government. What is the EU like? How can they not be ashamed that they don't have a common standard for government? Why drag us where there are no standards? And, I must commend you, within that point six. Is that translated into some official EU language? You wrote heroically – no. Now let's go to what's in charge. I would ask those present not to laugh, because it is a very important member, which is a member of the 4th bill, which also has a title (this is what we got now and with the titles; since Balinovac was once someone in the government, now every member has a title and title), and that is – presenting the views of the Government. In principle we heard – what are you rebelling about this article when we copied it from the Rules of Procedure? So, what can be in the Regulation can be in the Rules of Procedure; what can be in the Rules of Procedure can be in the Regulation; what can be in the Regulation can be in the law; what can be in the law can be in the Constitution; what can be in the Constitution can be in the Charter of the UN; what can be in the UN Charter can be in the Charter, it can be in the Resolution; it can be in the Declaration, it can be in the principles of programming, it can be wherever you want. That logic of yours practically devalues the contained provisions that deserve to be, by its essence, the matter of one law. Next, you're saying it's attitudes. In the first position – presenting the views of the Government; in the second position – representing the views of the Government. I completely understand. It's impossible for one government, with the highest responsibility for the state of affairs, to perform in the public "who in the cuneiform, who in the record". That's unserious. Take these political differences aside between political parties and political interests. The interest of the citizens comes first. The government should be as unique as possible in its views. Now, what are these attitudes? These can only be some political attitudes. Because as far as the legal order is concerned, which is governed by the laws, it does not tolerate improvisation. Let's move on. This applies only to what the Government has concluded at the cabinet session. This isn't about the ministries. We have the Free Access Act. Now you see this situation -- the government takes a stand, so it says "no," someone asks for information, through the Trustee, secures it, and eventually turns out to be "yes". It's a kind of devaluation of the government. And it's a good thing Mrs. Comic finally accepted that we talk a little bit about something that's really the subject of this law. That's, say, the Minister's resignation. You know, when someone resigns, it's his personal act. There's nothing more to talk about, he said what he said. Now he says he can do some technical work. Well, the minister, under his resignation, can do technical affairs in the Assembly -- to arrange the heating, to arrange the radiators, to wipe out the dust. It's technical business. But how can he represent the government's views when he said no to that government? You, who are in power, think – and what if Mirko Cvetkovic steals those resignations? Wait, what are you laughing at? That's what we had here. Slavica Djukic created a parliamentary group, a party, with stolen resignations. What if Mirko Cvetkovic steals resignations and citizen Milan Markovic doesn't want to be minister today? Have you thought about it? You will support this Article 4, but when are you real – 2008 or 2011? What is your relationship to the items? The resignation is a personal act. We had some resignations, so we authorized the party to hand over those resignations. The ministers have resignations, so they have authorized the Prime Minister to resign to the National Assembly president. And Mirko Cvetkovic steals resignations. Please, have you thought about it? Now, in 2008, I was telling you that because of your mandate, you're going to be in this situation. And you're here. You know, if you can't make political unity in terms of some program that's the government's job and how to do it, there's no legal provision that'll make you breathe with one heart. The husband sues the woman and asks the court for judgment to oblige his wife to love him. It's the same thing you wrote here. It's exactly the same. It's impossible to commit. So, if you were building a government, you had to have some sort of etalon. You had five points -- 200,000 you'd hire, and you fired 250,000, 400,000, I don't know, I won't bid. You've got everything down, everything on the line. You know, when you say "good afternoon," I'm looking right at where the sun is, whether it's there or not, if it's not the moon. Who else can trust you? Here, we gave you one proposal. However, it is offensive for the government's authority to achieve amendments and additions to the Government Act. We told you that. Of course, you will not listen to what we say. And, uh, your popularity's jumping, so you know. It's amazing to see your popularity. Ever since the president of the Republic came to you, the president of the party, so if he'd bended his eyes a little, then his eyes spread, you'd have shaved. He, man, can't leave the country for two days, you mess things up right now. He was a minister until the other day, and now he's in as a citizen. Let's play. And, Natasha, remember, a sentence has been memorized by the people -- Serbia has statistically emerged from the crisis. Thank you for not punishing me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51350	You have earned neither warning nor punishment. If it was, things would be developing differently. The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51351	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, I would also like to welcome Mr. Minister but he is not here, I have reported on the amendment to Mr. Martinovic's 4th noun. This Article 4. The proposal for a government law is extremely interesting. It solves two mysteries. The first is that the pothole has a hole, and the second has to defend the government's interest. The question here is, what did the legislator want with this? And we all know who the legislator of this text is. This is our president, our sovereign, Mr Boris Tadic. Since there were dissonant tones from the government and undisciplined players, he decided to reshuffle the government. He sent an undisciplined player not to the spare bench, but to the stands and I now expect him to cheer a little for us, and a little for you (it all depends, he has already announced it in the means of information). And now that he's decided to reconstruct the government, he's introducing seven new ministers to the government, seven new SCOY secretaries, and all together with these siblings, they have to make harmonic statements. Dear citizens of Serbia, these statements will look like this. First, you will be convinced that today is the euro 76, not 106 dinars. They'll convince you that today's salary is 430, not 310 euros. It will convince you that today's pension is 70% of the average personal income, not that it fell 40 euros. You will be convinced today in Serbia that there are no poor people and that there are millions of people waiting for what they have actually been told is propaganda of the opposition. It will convince you that Serbia is not in debt slavery, although it has owed about 4.5 billion in these three and a half years. They will convince you that the Corridor will open tomorrow, even though only 12 kilometers of highways have been made. They'll try to convince you of all this. They will try to convince you that a ship whose captain is Mirko Cvetkovic is not a Titanic, but that it is a white ship waiting for a quiet port. They will try to convince you that today is 2008 and not 2011 and that they are socially responsible. However, Serbian citizens are no longer naive, but politically experienced and know that these sanctions imposed by their government are socially irresponsible, sanctions that they have not suffered in the 1990s, when they were introduced by the international community to Serbian citizens. That is why we expect the legislator from the beginning of the story, together with the president of the assembly, to call the elections and punish the current government, punish the current coalition and send them into political history. And it would be fine if after the elections, Serbia was led by a national responsible government, which would lead Serbia through progress and prosperity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51352	Three minutes and ten seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51353	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, this member of the law which requires ministers to represent the government's views in the public, best describes the state within the government itself, best shows the degree of mistrust here, best shows disunity and best shows the fear within the government itself. I believe that no one understands the degree of mistrust there must be within the government itself in order for anyone to even consider introducing such a provision into the law. This provision really offends anyone who reads it, because it is contrary to common sense and that it should not be written at all in this law. I truly admire the courage of whoever put this legal provision into the text of the law, and I want to believe that this is not Mr. Markovic's presence here. With this provision, the government insults not only itself, because it does not exist for itself, but rather offends citizens, for which it should exist. This government insults and humiliates citizens daily, including that famous story of reconstruction, because this story does nothing good and nothing new to Serbia. First of all, the question arises what the reconstruction will do in the election year itself. Secondly, whether the reconstruction will bring any savings here in public spending, in a situation where the jobs in the section of the missing ministry are attached to the ministry that survives. If the interest and goal of these changes is to reduce public spending by just a few ministerial salaries, then the question arises why, in general, we, as a state, have entered this farce called government reconstruction. The government, I think, is the most profoundly necessary economic policy instead of reconstruction. Today, there is no government in the world that in the first two months of this year has owed the malts as much as it will get from the sale of Telecom. Today, there is no government in the world whose industrial production is half as small as it was in the '80s. Today, there is no government that has the highest inflation rate in Europe. I will remind you that the rate of inflation in Serbia is around 10% and at that rate I think we are the worst in Europe. Today, there is no government that can't count the number of unemployed, but others have calculated that since its arrival to date, a total of 400,000 people have lost their jobs instead of her famous promise to hire half of them. Because of what I've just said, that I'm not going into other segments of government work, that I'm not going into those segments where, as a state and a people, we're so humiliated and humiliated that I don't think history remember it, that I'm staying on these economic indicators alone, I think it was much more important for the government to at least partially solve these problems, not only to deal with itself, with the disciplinary responsibility of its members and artificially building the authority of its prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51354	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51355	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, it is truly strange how inconsistencies one amendment is trying to defend whose intention is to abolish a provision that clearly defines the government as not a set of political parties, is not a set of ministries or a set of individuals, but that the government is a collective body in which rules apply and that, even if they represent different views on a particular issue within the government, decisions are not made by individuals. If the decision is made by the Government, and only the Government can make decisions that are related to its jurisdiction, then I really don't see how this amount of energy can be spent trying to define such a role as the Government subject to ridicule, to claim even that it's unconstitutional and that it's limiting individual rights. There's no one left in the government. Anyone can leave the government if the government's policy disagrees so deeply with the policy that an individual would represent, but it is impossible to imagine that an individual can, regardless of the government's decision, advocate, represent or possibly implement a policy that is not essentially a government policy. I think it's wrong and maligning to try to define it as an attempt to return to any individual in the government authority. If it is necessary to restore authority to the government as an institution that is important to every citizen of this country, then I don't think there is a legal norm that can be any problem if it achieves this important goal from the Serbian citizens' point of view. This isn't about trying to get back or replace the lack of any authority. It's just that we have a serious history of coalition governments where governments sometimes couldn't solve citizens' problems because some individuals understood that they had the right to represent their views even if the government made a different decision. In order to remove any possibility for individuals to understand in this way a collective body such as the government, I think it is good that such a provision stands in this law and I think it is not correct to attack this provision by claiming that it proves this or that. Of course, whenever we talk about laws relating to the organisation, jurisdiction and work of the government, it's always a good reason to talk about the government itself, but I think we'll have a chance to talk about the government when we choose government members after the adoption of these laws. The qualifications are presented here which are essentially incorrect and show only an inadequacy and inability to admit that this government has achieved in difficult circumstances very often better results than any country in the environment, so it is said that there is not one government that has this kind of inflation, that there is not one government that has so much in debt. But there are governments whose countries went bankrupt, there are governments that saved their countries by helping them with European and other funds so as not to completely go bankrupt, there is a government whose debt is greater than the total gross national income, etc. This government, in the same circumstances in which these governments led its countries to such a state, managed to preserve macroeconomic stability and preserve the country from inflation, and it is now objecting to those whose time, when they were in government, inflation was 15%. Now the question is whether 15% is less than 10%. There was no economic crisis, there were no consequences this government faces, but they still had inflation 15%. Not to mention some inflations that we don't know exactly how much percent is because there are so many zeroes if we want to build an institution, try to get out of whose government, who it is, who it is, who it is, who the ministers are and who the prime minister is, and see if we all mean that the government is a collective body, that collectively makes decisions and that decisions are made under the conditions under which decisions are prescribed within the government binding on all members or you don't think they're binding on all members. If we had experience that some other governments were literally formed on the principles that the parties that made up the coalition did not interfere with each other in the portfolio, that decisions were made by autonomous ministers, as if the government as a whole did not exist, then I think that any provision that prevents such a decision within the government is good and from the point of view of the citizens' interest is desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51356	Six minutes and ten seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51357	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, is not the time to take political views and consider political theories, but the government of the Republic of Serbia is made up of those people who have chosen political parties through their legitimate representatives, representatives of citizens who participated in the elections in Serbia. Why am I saying this? For the reasons that those who are the most critical of our desire, intent and attempt to form one government responsible for the citizens, the people who are the loudest critic of this provision, have, interestingly, two morals – one morale preach but do not adhere to it, and the others, whom they adhere, do not preach. Because what about those political parties that have insider acts that prohibit their officials from speaking differently from the party's president when it comes to some affairs? I have such documents on me. They were signed by the president of some parties who were the loudest critic of our intention to show responsibility to the government through this amendment. What do you say after the sentence that this is a government that humiliates citizens? Well, I am now humiliated in no respect, in any segment, nor as a man nor as a citizen of this country. I was much more humiliated when some representatives of the government welcomed President Djindjic's murderer in their cabinet as a folk hero, with fanfare and talambas. Many times as a citizen, I was humiliated as I watched the dispensaries rent machines in Kolubara and spend money on taxpayers, citizens of Serbia, and there was no money to edit the Loznica slides, and today I hear that some members of that government, along with their directors of public enterprises, have abused that money. I was humiliated, as a citizen but also as a member of a political party that was then in opposition, whenever I saw that everyone in the world was fine, and only we had the crisis. I would understand the criticisms of political parties at the expense of this government that say there was never worse in Serbia if only in Serbia it was bad. But there was a crisis all over the world, and those who forget that some governments went bankrupt and some countries wanted to sell their islands to get out of the crisis, ignored the fact that it wasn't just the crisis with us, but it was the crisis in the world. And when they had the opportunity to show their knowledge, talent, skill and management, and then they feared responsibility and returned to the people's mandate, the crisis was mostly with us. What to say about the humiliation when Dr Dabic, who actually called himself Dr Radovan Karadzic, under the protection of the State Security Service, treated the citizens and went to Belanovic in the afternoon to recover with sweet and water? Was Serbia humiliated then, or is it now? And was Serbia humiliated when someone said they didn't know where Radovan Karadzic was, and then, just two days after his shift, it showed that everyone knows where Radovan Karadzic is? And do we maybe pay the price for that and that kind of policy? I will vote calmly for this amendment, because I love Serbia and because I want this country to have a European future. All who fear the future of Europe and call on the Balkan past of Serbia must know that the wheel of history always moves forward, in a positive direction, despite those who are constantly trying to fill the wheels, take the axle off the wagon, and take the driver to drive a little bit with some foreigners. We have long turned on the European lighthouse in our sky. Yes, we are geographically in Europe, but Europe is no longer a geographical concept. For those who do not know, Europe is a political concept, and we unfortunately do not belong to that group. Europe was a geographical concept when they were 10 and 12 years old, but now that they are 30 and 40 years old and when they look at how EU citizens live and how much money the EU has helped in the crisis of EU member states, they can only say – we are sorry that we have led the policy that has distanced us from Europe, and we have proudly represented that policy. If we had represented a different policy, maybe Serbia would be in the EU today, so maybe it would have survived the crisis with the help and solidarity of other citizens of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51358	Five minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51359	I'm using MP time (so there's no confusion). Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here again facing the great degree of ignorance of those who need to convince us that the amendments to the Government Act are good. The government isn't made up of ministries, it's made up of ministers. Government members are not ministries, they're ministers. Secondly, the question arises as to why these changes, which are due to increase political unity in the government, are being voted in 2011, and the Government Act was passed in 2005. How is it that in 2005, there was no need for a legal norm that states that government members are obliged to represent in public government positions rather than their views, and suddenly, in 2011, this need arises? The answer is very simple. Political parties in Serbia that do not make up the current government, Serbian citizens and public information funds have detected a political phenomenon. The political phenomenon is that there is no unity in the current government. That's why these changes are being made. Because he's trying to force a legal standard to create a political unity he doesn't have. Could there be political unity in the government, which was drawn up in the way the current government was drawn up in 2008, composed of foreign ambassadors and domestic tycoons, which consisted of political parties that, 15 days before the government was composed, were unable to look at themselves? I must remind you, a coalition partner in the current government said he could not sit in a government that had delivered their former president to The Hague. The second coalition partner told the same current coalition partner that he could not be in government with someone who was responsible for everything that happened to Serbia during the 1990s. All of a sudden, it's all forgotten. What was in the public presence 10, 15 and a month earlier was completed by signing one 'loveful political agreement' to forgive each other for all sins and the political outcome of the agreement between the two coalition partners is that no one else is responsible for the difficult situation during the 1990s but SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj. No one was in the government in 1990-2000 except the SRS. There was no SPS, no New Democracy, no DS, no SPO. Serbia was ruled by the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj from 1990 to 2000. What is the government's authority in international relations? Here's a simple question - how many Interpol arrest warrants have this authority issued for people responsible for war crimes in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina? How many people you've put out an APB on you are your friends from the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany delivered to Serbia? Have you been delivered Ejup Ganic? It's not. A man ordered a massacre on Voluntary Street. Did Jovan Divjak, a man who had been delivered to you before he moved to the Army of BiH, sell weapons to the Muslims to avoid condemning the military court to flee to Ali's army? Was that man delivered to you? It's not. You had to give up the prosecution of Tihomir Purda. You had to because it was the ultimatum of Croatian friends. They told you, and the Americans, of course, supported it – to give up the pursuit of Tihomir Purda, we know that he committed war crimes in Vukovar, we know that there was everything there and everything in the matter of the National Guard and the Croatian Ministry of Interior, but you simply have to release him from any criminal procedure because it is a request from Washington, Brussels and Zagreb. So you don't have to convince us of your authority. Convince your friends, at least you claim to be your friends. Make sure they're really friends and the Republic of Serbia. Let them do something for you. You delivered everything you could deliver. Only underage children haven't started delivering to The Hague. And Slobodan Milosevic, and Milan Milutinovic, and Sainovic, and all possible police and military generals, you delivered everything. What did they do for you? Day after day, the so-called day after day. The international community slaps the Republic of Serbia. Neither Ejup Ganic nor Jovan Divjak nor Ali Izetbegovic are responsible. No one is responsible for anything but Serbs. This is the international community's position on what happened during the 1990s. What is the government's authority when it comes to economic policy? Not at all. You are now trying to convince us that we do not live in the Republic of Serbia, that we do not know what is happening in the real world around us. That attempt was predicated to failure. Here some ruling coalition MPs are calling for examples of countries that have had to sell their islands to get out of the economic crisis. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I must say that this is the statement by Angela Merkel and the German finance minister, who said to those Greeks - gentlemen, if you have no money, sell the islands. It's the EU. There's no love, there's no solidarity, there's nothing but mere economic interest. If Greece, which has been in the EU for years, Malta must sell islands, with what right do you try to bring the Republic of Serbia into the EU? What do we sell? We don't have islands. Sell what? Should we sell the Duke? A raske area to sell? Cereal fields to sell? A bathroom to sell? What do we do? So this government has no authority. This government does not lead a good policy – neither political, economic, nor foreign policy. I ask you now - do you honestly believe that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia? If so, what right is being held in Belgrade in a conference of NATO, which bombed us in 1999, which, according to Dick Maria, knew about human organ trafficking and did nothing to prevent it? In a report by Dick Marty, NATO considered Kosovo's Liberation Army as its ally during its 1999 intervention in Yugoslavia. What right does a NATO conference take place in Belgrade? How in March do you receive Putin, and in June of the same year you will hug and kiss with NATO representatives? What kind of politics are you running? As in private life, one man cannot sit on two chairs if he is moral and upright, so no state in international relations can do. Are you for the Russians or are you for the Americans? Are you NATO or are you against NATO? Are you in favour of the EU or are you against the EU? What are you for? One statement from the former leader of the Ilir Movement in Croatia well explains the situation in which you are. The statement refers to the Croats at the time. He says: We Croats are few Germans; we are few Hungarians; we are few Latins; all in all, we are nothing. The government of the Republic of Serbia -- it's a little pro-American, it's a little pro-RUS, and sometimes it's pro-Serbian in pauses, as current President Boris Tadic would say. So what is the essence, you cannot force a legal norm to establish political unity. Political unity either there or there isn't. If he's not here, it can't be established by the Government Act. The government is politically heterogeneous. There are too many private interests that it could be politically unique. The parties that make it don't trust each other, there's no elemental political trust. And after this government law, everything will be as it has been. We'll have a three-way government, incompetent and irresponsible. We will have a prime minister that no one lives in Serbia understands and knows what his view of any vital social problem is. No one has ever heard loud and clear what this man stands for. In the words of the word, we will have a government that, according to Slobodan Jovanovic, deals with politics in a semi-mutual way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51360	Nine minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51361	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Milan Markovic, the lawyer, the resignation ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here we heard an attack on the opposition trying to defend one of these amendments, and at the same time the representatives of the government explain that the only way to keep the government from shutting down the ministers. The government, which in chaos, which in three years' time has not made a promise, finds only its justification, they say, in the difficult legacy it took in 2008. And it's a really hard legacy. They were left with 400,000 jobs, 400,000 salaries, a very difficult legacy, which they fought by driving these people out into the street and abolishing those jobs. Indeed, it was hard to inherit that citizens had a 100-euro higher salary, which was difficult to bear and reduced their salary by 100 euros. It was really hard to inherit stability in the Raski area, so it was unbearable to look at, so they saw that the more they quarreled there, and the more that the situation was at the edge of the crisis and the more they shot. It's really hard to inherit whatever Serbian institutions were in KIM, so Eulex had to be brought in and retired from there. It was really hard to inherit a policy of maintaining state sovereignty and some continuity and dignity, and then the resolution was passed, so it retreated, so now there are shameful negotiations, we don't know for what purpose, in Brussels. These are the consequences of politics, and this is a calculation of the legacy in which Serbia had the opportunity, to be able to preserve it, to progress and to develop it properly. But, as the whole reconstruction process is, in fact, an indicator and a paradigm of how the government works, which is one chaos, disrespect for the law, disrespect for the elemental rules in the modern world of how governments are formed. It's actually a picture of how it's been going over the past three years. And the only thing government officials can do is say it was a terrible legacy and that they're accusing them of making a picture that they didn't know how to deal with it. Gentlemen, the global economic crisis is not the only cause. We have the lowest salary. That's where we managed to show how successfully we fought against the surrounding countries, by having the lowest salary in the region. And it is indeed a great success – a leader in the region. So, the thing about the bad government, the bad people's solutions, the bad politics and the destruction of everything that was created in the previous four years, from 2004 to 2008, when the DSS was in power. You can twist the facts, say – not so, there were no more than 400,000 jobs, there was no higher salary. But you can't escape the facts. You can ask for a thousand reasons why it is, but simply, you are a failed government and the most unsuccessful government that has ever been, and you cannot escape from that fact at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51362	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that none of the representatives of the parliamentary majority, and also the legislator of this law, assumed that this member of the law would cause this kind of discussion, but we as politicians are obliged to see what is behind the hill and thus interpret each member of the law or every word in the law. Especially since this member of the law just paints that scariest reality of ours, which is that we are no longer a sovereign state. Because if we did, we wouldn't need a member of the law like this at all. This is something that's meant to be. So when, after some elections, and now we are in a situation and that during the term of office of this government, the President of the Republic gives a term of office to someone to draw up a government, it is tailored by some vision. It's mostly coalition governments and it's like this all over Europe. There is some political agreement and some political platform on which the government will work during its term of office. But here it's obvious that our government is above all not independent in creating and implementing its policy. Worse still, those who participate in government have different mentors in the West – one in England, the other in Germany, the third in America – and there are certain thorns. So now, to preserve the government, to ensure that the public doesn't find out what any of the ministers in the government or representatives of certain political parties are thinking, let's get that into this law. That's really funny, because we think that this provision of the law is something that's moral, something that's meant to be, which shouldn't be in the law if that government is built on a political platform. But if she's just bent out the way she wants someone from abroad, then you're trying to discipline the ministers this way. The second thing, it is clear that we are in the pre-election year, and some are announcing elections a little earlier, some are agreeing with the authorities when it will be, you have various promises who should take power in the next term, and you are all forgetting about the citizens of Serbia. I think you're underestimating them too much. They are all of your marifetteluks (even these newly-roasted political parties, which should be extraparliamentary, but thanks to you in parliament) figured out, discovered, and none of you know what Serbian citizens will say in the next election. You can hope to overplay them again, fool them, lie, but honestly, after the long experience our citizens have, twenty years of going to parliamentary elections, I think this time and how to imagine and decide what's best for them, and not the way you or your mentors would want it. So we stand at the point that this member of the law means something that should be the image of every honest man – that if he enters a round, he plays that round to the end if it suits him, and if it doesn't suit him, he should go out publicly and say, "I am resigning because I don't agree with that and so on," but you can't prevent them from having their own political stance. The other thing is that some of you or some political parties may not be allowed to withdraw from the government, they must endure running to the end if they have entered that circuit. Mr. Milivojevic said he would support this amendment, if I understood correctly? No, it was a lapus lingu. So it's just the law, not the amendment. Although it's on the record. Many arguments were for this amendment, but much more important than that was this discussion by fellow MPs who understood what it was and took advantage of the opportunity, and between them and me, to point out to the public that our government is not a Serbian government and that it shows it by its works. The latest is entering negotiations with the Shiptars, which is a direct recognition of KIM independence, which does not take much effort to explain. I'm not saying that he's not an adequate negotiator, I'm not going to talk about you not having a platform to talk about, I mean that you shouldn't have, at least that's how the SRS feels, to get into those negotiations, because you're admitting that it's two internationally recognised states, even though we can never declare it or otherwise admit KIM. You are doing this on your own and, as you can see, the future of the Serbian state is quite uncertain if the government continues to run such a policy as it leads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51364	Six minutes and five seconds of MP time were used. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51365	Right on the line. I think I've been mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51366	You do not have the right to reply, you can use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51367	If you'd listened to what Mr. Milivojevic was saying, I might have...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51368	Thank you. Do you want to use MEP time? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51369	Since you do not give me the right to reply, of course I will use the time of the parliamentary group. For someone to be humiliated, he must have elementary dignity. Perhaps Mr Milivojevic is not humiliated, but are definitely humiliated Serbian citizens because those who have the privilege of receiving wages receive it at such a low cost that it is the lowest today in Europe. All the people living in Serbia, which is huge -- millions of people living below the poverty line in Serbia today, have been humiliated, and those who bear the burden of paying the most expensive administration in Serbia have been humiliated. It's true that some countries wanted to sell their islands to get out of the crisis, but it's true what happens...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51370	People's MPs, you didn't get the right to a replica. Please make time for the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51371	Mrs. Comic, I'm using the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51372	Then please talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51373	I don't know if we understand what we're saying here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51374	I understand perfectly, People's MPs. If you're wasting the time of the parliamentary group, then you have to talk about the agenda, not saying "I'm using the time of the parliamentary group," but actually using time for replication. That's the difference. So please - on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51375	I'm just talking about how humiliating this member is to parliament and society as a whole, for the simple reason that something is defined here that a normal government should gather and not be at all controversial and defined. I'm talking about some countries trying to sell their islands to get out of the crisis, and Serbia is selling its territory, or its province, and every day it gets deeper and deeper into this crisis. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51376	One minute was used by the MP's group. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51377	Dear Madam Chairman, I appeal to Article 107(1) – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Under the dignity of the National Assembly, it is also an obligation not to make false claims in the congregation and to obey the law. News has just been released of which ministers resigned. Mr. Markovic is the minister of resignation. I speak on the basis of a government statement, which has been published, among other things, on the RTS website.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51378	People's MP, you've been given your word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure has been injured, then I ask you to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, not about whether or not there was news in the papers or on television. Please don't disrespect the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be harmed on television. How can I tell you?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51379	I'm just giving an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51380	You're not giving a reason. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51381	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be honorable, however, if someone had mentioned that there were many people living in Serbia below the poverty line, then it would have been at least as honest as it would have been to remember – while he was in power, how much less poor would have been "Colubare" than the less poor would have been if there had been no road robbery, the less the poor would have been if there had been no railroad robbery, etc. We are not going back in time, but if you want to claim to the citizens of Serbia that you are today born and innocent of everything this country has suffered, then we need to remind you that a huge part of the responsibility for the current situation in this country is borne by just you who remind you today of such a difficult moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51382	I ask the People's Parliament to also respect a member of the Rules of Procedure's obligation to speak about the agenda. Everyone gets a minute, except we don't have a habit of listening to others, we just listen to ourselves. Everyone gets a chance to say what he's got, but without crossing the border that involves jeopardizing order at the National Assembly session. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51383	Yes, of course, and I'm calling on article 107 again. You have just violated it by applying different criteria for the same approach to exposure during the National Assembly session. If my argument had nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then even my colleague's explanation has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51384	People's MP, you don't listen very carefully...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51385	I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51386	I've just told the MP that he's bound to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51387	Allow me to give an explanation within my time. Let me explain on the basis of which I think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I just now gave an explanation – because of the use of different criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51388	I'm telling you it's not. You abuse the right to receive word of breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP, the right to receive a word and speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure is a precious right and this right cannot be misused. My obligation under Article 27 is to ensure this right, not to ensure the abuse of rights because there is something to be said. Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51389	They're getting me punished right away. Take it easy, let me say it first. I think he's still a injured member of 27. I'd just like to draw attention to the president's need for a session, not to terrorize the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51390	There's no damage to article 27. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that the application of the Rules of Procedure to all MPs who make objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedure or trying to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is exactly the same. National MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I contribute to the support of the amendment to Article 4 of this bill. Looking at the bill, which is a very modest scale, we see that this particular member is the most verbally extensive. I can't help but notice, first of all, that he was meant to do what all the governments of the world do every time they find themselves in the kind of seal that our government found themselves in, and that's long been responsible for a wise game called chess, which is a distraction maneuver. This member, who was supposed to usurp our attention and attention to the public, is in fact distracted by the much bigger problems that come with this government reconstruction. What interests me both in the proposal of this member and in the rejection of the amendment which is explained to this member is the answer to the question – what is obtained by the reconstruction of the Government? So that's the same question -- what's the motive (and he's clear in both cases), which is the goal (because in both cases he's uncertain) and, of course, what's the effect? In the case of this member, he was expected for the government. He did seem to upset the public, but he won't answer the important question – what will we do when it comes to the application of this law? For three years, we've had on stage the silence of democracy. As a young democratic society, we should not have allowed this late illness. On TV, we're following a show called "Repacking", so we're calling this process the government that was called in front of us at one point "Repacking," but we have to face it as public, as citizens, as political subjects of the Serbian everyday life, with a very serious silence of democracy in this country. That's definitely what this law introduces, prescribing us forcibly, as a legal letter, optimism. So this is where the law prescribes optimism even when it doesn't belong. After adopting a member like this, I must say that I am becoming, frankly, what is called a pessimist. And who's the pessimist? They say it's a well-informed optimist. In the government, everyone will be well informed, but I'm afraid after this member, they'll have to have only apparent optimism. So this is a member who will be abolished by the downfall of this government (if it will be in a few months or at last next year), but it will certainly achieve that good effect – it has exposed many things. So I tell my fellow Members not to be desperate that the amendment will not be adopted. It won't be adopted, but this is the shortest breath possible and indeed the last move of trying a pretty bad firm with a bankruptcy manager to maintain at least some time as a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51392	Three minutes and 45 seconds have been used by the MP's group. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51393	I think, according to the amendment, Jovan Palalic called earlier. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51394	National MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51395	This standard, which is now on the agenda, which we are discussing, is a typical example of a repressive norm. And in a number of cases that we had in the National Assembly when the laws were passed, the repression dominated. From the Law on Information to a series of other laws, along with Criminal Law, it was constantly tightened and repressive measures were constantly imposed to reach the level of freedom in every way possible to reduce and choke. And then we listen here – the new level of functioning of institutions by the ruling majority. While during the government run by DSS-based institutions, they are being decomposed here in every way possible. We also listen in political messages, where politicians point fingers – there was crime. Gentlemen, there are institutions that will solve this, and that practice, that politicians point fingers, we watched in the 1990s, where the political decision was investigated, accused, ruled. We see that practice again now. It is a system of institutions and policies that is now being created. In the 1990s, we had one more step, and that was the execution of political judgments. It showed great imagination as these political judgments were carried out. We are now going back to that time (although we thought that the time had gone beyond 2000) that politicians were judging instead of institutions, and then, in order for such a situation to be, institutions should be broken down. And this is an example of the decommissioning of the government as an institution, the whole law is an example of the decommissioning of the government as an institution, and this way of functioning is -- what the courts are going to do to us, what the police are going to do to us, what the prosecution is going to do to us, what the executive authorities are going to do to us, we're going to charge, we're going to judge. Gentlemen, what you have now broken down, the future government, which will come after you, will rebuild and we believe that you will never again allow citizens to degrade institutions and degrade the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51396	Two minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51397	Article 107 — The dignity of the National Assembly. We're all fooled today, and I think it's very important to cut it off and say it. So Minister Milan Markovic directly deceived the public, not to say he lied. He resigned, he is the minister in resignation, and it does not appear in the newspaper, according to the Serbian government today. So Mr. Milan Markovic doesn't have the legal right to sit here. Allow me to read to you a member of the law – the minister who resigned cannot pass regulations unless their adoption is in the interests of defence or natural or technical accident. About whether this government is a technical accident or a natural one, it can decompose, but it's a matter of attitude. He simply has no right to sit here. We have been warning you since 14 hours that the Assembly must not break the law, because the law breaks at the beginning a little while, and in the end Gaddafi takes out guns and tanks on the street. You can't break the law. This country has a prime minister. First, we're the only country in the world where the prime minister doesn't explain the government law, but sits somewhere in a hole, afraid of himself, and the minister he sends has no legal right to sit here. What's the next move? Or are you telling us that the prime minister is lying because he said the minister resigned? What kind of minister you are, maybe he doesn't even know he resigned, but please let him know, since the whole country knows except for him. Of course, he knew that because of his insolence and arrogance, and then by direct deception, he tried to lie to the MPs of the National Assembly. If you go over it and say it's not an insult to dignity, I don't know what's more offensive to the dignity of the National Assembly than I do to know what we have in the first place to listen to... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... if he convinced us 15 minutes ago that a man who is capable of lying so coldly. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51398	Please don't throw it away. I fully understand the wish of all MPs to show each other the best of themselves and in contributions to or against the best possible, but I ask that we do not abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I didn't hurt a article in 107. The Assembly is running through the Rules of Procedure, and that's how it's going to keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51399	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51400	You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51401	Yes, of course. Article 107. You have now directly offended me as a People's MP. I didn't say for a moment that you hurt anything, I said that the minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51402	People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51403	Don't interrupt me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51404	You can only get word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure if I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51405	Let me tell you something, I have the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51406	National MP, right to breach of the Rules of Procedure, the first position - is given the word to point to the injury committed by the chairman, and I tell you that I am not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51407	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51408	You're saying he's a injured member of 27? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51409	Article 107, violation of my dignity. You insult me with your conduct, not allowing me to explain what my mandate, as a member of the Parliament, was given by the citizens of this country, not you. If it was up to you, I wouldn't be sitting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51410	National MP, you must take care of the respect and other provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51411	I agree. You must also take care of who I represent here. I represent some citizens here who don't want the National Assembly to break the law, no matter what kind of stunt you're doing right now. We're telling you there's no clearer violation of the law than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51412	I'm warning you of keeping your eyes open.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51413	I'm telling you that breaking the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51414	I warn you the way you treat other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51415	You can come into my word, you can call security to kick me out, you can probably get Hansel Dacic to arrest me, but you're breaking the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51416	There's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51417	You're breaking the law. Do you know the name of the one who breaks the law? You don't know that? Where's the minister? Where's the Prime Minister? Where are they? He's got technical work to do. Maybe now he's doing these technical work around the congregation building. What have these MPs been talking about all day today? Does that interest anyone? Well, what do you need the Assembly for anyway? Let Happy People, Better Life, go 24 hours a day, and you keep your mouth shut, so you don't mind us, or those ministers from Article 4 who can't even say anything if they see anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51418	People's MP, I warn you of the language you use. Thank you. Article 107 was not injured in my conduct as chairman. You can ask the Assembly to declare that on Vote Day. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51419	Madam Chairman, you have just violated Article 107 and Article 110, and the whole time this session is being violated by Article 271. I'll only read the third point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51420	National MP, Article 271 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51421	He may be violated... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51422	I thank you and beg you not to abuse...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51423	It's my right to give an explanation in two minutes and explain why. It's not about law, it's about flagrant violation of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51424	People's MP, I am obliged to take care of order in the session of the National Assembly, yes, by listening to the MP, I do not put the MP or myself in a position to act on a member who obliges me to give the measures of caution, because I consider the custody of the order during this session to be such that all MPs must have space to express their positive or negative views on the proposals of the laws that are on the agenda. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51425	You know what? You are required under article 27 to allow the Assembly to operate in accordance with law and order. You are now a professor of law with this arrogant attitude of the ruling majority "no one knows anything, only we know everything" and this "Swedish Party" - it's all right, so let's talk about the jury accounts...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51426	I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51427	So you have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51428	... To communicate with other Members of Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51429	What? Is yours in line? Well, you allow yourself to interpret the law better than the professor of law school. Which member of the Rules of Procedure gives you this right? Either you're saying he doesn't know the matter, or he's wrong, by applying the naked force, by taking away our word. Why don't you discuss it? Answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51430	People's MP, the measure of taking words didn't happen at this session, and apparently it won't, there's no need. I just insist on respecting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51431	Well, that cynicism... You know what? There's not enough deep enough that you're going to fall into with such cynicism and such a violation of the law. We tell you nicely – the law has been broken, you've been breaking it constantly since 1400 hours today. Or the Prime Minister is a liar. One of those two can't be incorrect. So, the prime minister said that the gentleman sitting is no longer a minister, he's a minister in resignation, he can't represent the government, and you turn off the microphone for me so the citizens don't know. Is that a solution to the problem? So I tell you right away: you better cut everything short; right away, the whole group of MPs – warnings, out, we don't have a word and quiet everything. With Tianic "Happy People", at Željko "Dvor", everything sings, great, we have opposition, there is a rally, there is no rally, there is no rally, state in Sweden phenomenal, member, bottom 14 but the law is broken and, if we keep it quiet today, what is tomorrow – that's the question. What's tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51432	Two minutes. Thank you. No injuries, of course. I will repeat that taking care of the order at the session is only possible if members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are known and I do not consider myself to know anything more or any less than it is necessary to apply members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, so that there is no confusion, when it comes to the right to receive a word and to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and not to abuse that right, it is Article 103: "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and it is immediately after the injury done. The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly which has already been indicated.'
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51433	Is that what it says? Bravo, bravo. It also says to Gaddafi that it's broken. It's a force that appears and solves the matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51434	I have full understanding for all of us MPs who do not want to apply the rules in any case, but unfortunately, while I am chairing, I have an obligation to follow the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51435	I would ask to be given an explanation of how to explain that the Rules of Procedure has been broken when I am not allowed to give my reasons that I can put in two minutes. That's my question I didn't get an explanation for. I'm calling again for violations of articles 107 and 110, and I'm saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51436	You cannot, MP, repeat your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51437	Let me give you an explanation... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51438	Thank you, and I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51439	No one called for members 110 and 271.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51440	People's MP, you've called on 271st and I said that Article 271 can't be a matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure during the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51441	Could be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51442	Please and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51443	For such attitudes as yours on the exams I'm taking down students.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51444	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51445	We've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51446	You remembered too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51447	National MP Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51448	President, you lied to the National Assembly when you said that a member of 271 couldn't be broken. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? It's in Article 103 that you've been quoting, it doesn't say anything. Article 103 states that it is forbidden to point to an infringement of the Rules of Procedure already stated. This is a brand-new breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's been new information. The Minister's been here the whole time. So that breach of the Rules of Procedure takes all the time. To know what that means, it's not enough to read the Rules of Procedure. I don't insult your profession. You don't insult ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51449	People's MP, article 271 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I really thank you. With full understanding of your desire to help the session run in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51450	Where does that say? What makes you say that? Let them interpret the Legislative or Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51451	National MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51452	Article 27. I don't know where you get the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure. We tell you it doesn't say, and you say it does. Either you can't explain it to us, or this session has to end. Minister, your prime minister has announced that you are no longer a minister. You don't care? Do you care? You deceived the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and thus violated the dignity of this house. You said your private correspondence was none of our business. What do you mean, it's not? What's a resignation? Private correspondence? It's not a love letter, so let's ask you about it. So you're violating Article 24 of the existing, existing law that you're changing so far, and you're a representative of the government here instead of a prime minister who's nowhere to go, defending the amendment of that same law. While you're not in the O.R., none of those who can answer the MPs are there and you don't care about anything. I ask you why you deceived the public and why Parliament's chairman does not allow a doctor of law, a professor of law school, to explain where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. If you don't let us talk, explain exactly what to do. Should we pull the microphones? Is that an idea? What's the idea? Tell us. If you can't speak in the Serbian Parliament, what can you do? Tell us what it can do to beat you here. Tell us what. Is it funny? Are you laughing at me while I'm talking? Please, I'm asking you to give yourself a warning right now. You break the law, you laugh, you don't let us talk. You ignore the reality that all MPs of the opposition say is so, by taking away the word when someone is speaking. And you're still laughing at us as we speak. Do you understand what stage you've come to? I don't know if that's clear to you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51453	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no damage to article 27. The sitting shall be conducted with the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and shall take care of the order of the sitting in accordance with Article 27. Since it has been said here several times that a word has been taken from someone, it is my duty to remind all the MPs that taking away the words of the penalty measure which may be imposed or after the warning has been given if the offence, or the violation of the Rules of Procedure, continues, or in the event of an apparent serious violation, which requires even harder measures from members who define and take away words, as one of the most difficult measures, and the exclusion from the session. My desire for each of us to have the right to speak is quite clear, but it is also my obligation not to let the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be misused, no matter how much understanding she has for all of us who think that this is a way to declare during the session what we consider to be our political position. Therefore, calling for the Rules of Procedure to be broken refers to the procedure, and political views – through replicas, appearances and times available to parliamentary groups. It's my duty to keep these two things out of the way. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Ivan Andric. I apologize, MP, Minister Milan Markovic wants a word. Do you mind? He can't? National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51454	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51455	People's Messenger, I asked, after you have received the word, for you are right, and it has been made clear from you, it cannot. Come on, make up your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51456	I said yes, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51457	Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51458	I have to admit, I really don't understand why I'm so nervous, especially why I'm being treated like this. I don't know why I provoked you, Mr. Andric, to have such a negative attitude of apriors. If that's the case, there's no reason to twist what I said. I didn't say I had a private correspondence with the prime minister, I just said that, as a serious minister (in my opinion, of course; you don't share that opinion, that's your thing), I have no intention of presenting here details of correspondence or anything related to the correspondence of me as Minister and Prime Minister. If you think it's wrong, I don't think it's wrong. I think it's perfectly right, normal and decent. It is the Prime Minister who will present details of the correspondence between him and his ministers, if we advocate any order in the Serbian government and generally in our political life. I didn't say it was private correspondence. I didn't say anything, I just said I didn't want to bring up the details. I'm not going to plead on that issue, because you asked me whether or not I resigned. I'm telling you again, I'm not going to plead on that. It is the Prime Minister who is authorized to address the National Assembly and say something. Is that why you insult me? I really don't understand what the problem is. What did I do wrong or say you were talking to me this way? I just don't know what caused your anger. And now, again, I'm telling you, the way you're interpreting the law is simply not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51459	It's not true or the way you interpret it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51460	Okay, let me have my own opinion on that. If you think I was wrong, please contact the authorities. Again, it's a question that needs to be resolved by the National Assembly, Mr. Andric, not that you're talking to me and that you're trying to provoke me for no reason. I've never spoken to you the way you talk to me. So let the National Assembly sort this out. I'm telling you, the Government Act says the minister in resignation, if that's what I am, is running errands. It doesn't say he can't come to the assembly sessions. Or government sessions. For nine months, the ministers in the government of Vojislav Kostunica came and voted, Mr Andric, at the government's meetings. It says only that he can't lay down regulations. And even so, under the exceptional circumstances set out in the law. And they're even descriptive, so we don't get into it so we can figure out what the circumstances are and what they're not. But making the rules is kind of a tenth thing. It's one of the most important things that characterizes the minister's position, that he can lay down rules in matter when he's authorized by law. So my sitting here is completely undeniable. I had no intention of provoking you. I'd really like to ask you, there's no reason for us to communicate like this. If you think the National Assembly has a problem respecting its rules of procedure, don't address it to me. I'm convinced that sitting here is totally in accordance with the law. I repeat, I really didn't want to answer your question for a moment whether or not I resigned. Correspondence between me and the prime minister is something the prime minister should inform the public about, not me as a minister. I think it's also the rules of normal behavior in one government and, right to tell you, the rules of good education. So I'm gonna sit here as long as the National Assembly thinks it is. If the National Assembly decides otherwise, there's no problem getting out of this room, if you think it'll save the day. But I'm saying, I don't think you're right about interpreting the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51461	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51462	This is now both the replica and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 107 – the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51463	No, MP, the replica is not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51464	Article 107, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, which you just committed in the explanation you gave. Bess, Mr. Markovic, stems from the fact that we cannot achieve our right under the institutions of the National Assembly. When a person cannot exercise his right, he is justifiably angry and nervous. We've been warning all day about that fact. She may be irrelevant to you. From the government's perspective, breaking the law may not matter. It's enough that you're convinced not to break the law. Fortunately, civilization and democratic society know other institutions. One is, when it comes to the National Assembly, for me to rise up as an MP, to express my suspicion (this was done by all the opposition parliamentary groups), to take a break and to give the Legislative Committee an interpretation (the only one empowered to give an interpretation). Then there would be no discussion between you and me. Since I've been disabled, we're on our way here. Ten, fifteen of us, all of the opposition's MPs pointed to that. We think you're wrong. More interestingly, you consider under current affairs amendments to the Government Act. I will come to that Legislative Committee to hear that interpretation, because I find it infinitely interesting. But let's leave the joke and the comics aside. These aren't running jobs for us. Why do we insist that you move? Because it's the only hope that we're not reading the paper, but that what we have is asking the Prime Minister, who's afraid of this building as a curse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51465	Two minutes. Thank you. You abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51466	You're punishing me. I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51467	Since you're not understanding, I can only direct you to a stenogram. Once again, the right to suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be obtained to quote a member and say what I hurt the Rules of Procedure in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51468	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51469	You've denied it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51470	With this explanation, I ask MP Nebojsa Rangelovic not to throw. I understand the strategy and the parliamentary groups and individual MPs. She's legitimate and legal. It is the right of all parliamentary groups to try to abuse the rules of the Rules of Procedure or to try to prevent the chairman from holding order at the session, and it is the responsibility of the chair to maintain order at the session. Therefore, MP Ivan Andric abuses the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because, in his explanation, he did not explain a single word in which I injured Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51471	When you're clear, then you can give me two more minutes. It's article 107 again. Now you have offended the dignity of the National Assembly, again with your own explanation, by the fact that you do not understand why I think breaking the law is a violation of dignity and abuse of the work of the National Assembly. I can't accept that. You also rightly deny the MPs of the people. You don't let any explanation come to light. You cut off the words, whatever you call it legally, by shutting down the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51472	People's MP, since we are calling for a procedure here, I'm going to ask you to say the term "retracting words" carefully, because, I repeat, that was not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51473	Okay, I apologized. I don't know what this is called when you turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51474	I know what it's called, since I'm reading the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it's my duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51475	Okay, so we call it "spoiling words," and you call it what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51476	You can't call. It's not taking away words.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51477	You can't interrupt me either, so you keep doing it, so you think if you do it with a smile, it's a minor violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51478	No, it's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51479	It's not. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that if you laugh...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51480	It is my duty, MP, to prevent you from using the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51481	That obligation is mutual.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51482	You want to talk again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51483	Thank you. Article 27. And I won't answer again unless you give me a reason. We obviously differ in attitudes. We think that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, by allowing illegal action to take place in the Serbian Parliament. You don't think that's true. And we have...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51484	You're repeating the objection already made, People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51485	And what's your idea? To provoke the MPs, so that there might be an incident?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51486	No, MP, it's my idea to apply the Rules of Procedure and take care of the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51487	I have serious doubts about your intentions. I think it's your intention to break the law, act against the law, and I want the Legislative Committee to declare how we're going to get out of that situation. We'll be in touch while we have the Rules of Procedure in our hands and until security gets us out of here. How do you intend to end this? The whole opposition doesn't think the minister has the right to sit here, and you think he does. Why is your word more important than ours? We're telling you he has no right to sit there. He's got no right. It's a shame he doesn't sit in the prime minister's seat. It's already a shame enough for this home, so we can allow this institution to get even deeper into the mud.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51488	People's MP, you can't use procedural means to achieve a political goal. That's my opinion and what I'm now giving as an explanation is on the verge of giving an explanation. You can't call yourself to the Rules of Procedure twice. Since it was already highlighted at the beginning of the session, another explanation of why the session runs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of Articles 132 and 133. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a member of the government, resigns to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is sending that resignation to the National Assembly. When the National Assembly receives notice from the Prime Minister that one of the members or members of the Government has resigned, then the National Assembly at the first next session finds the resignation of a member or member of the government. Since none of this has happened until this moment, by 5:30 p.m.... Please don't disturb me with giving an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51489	And you can do me?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51490	Please don't throw it away. Therefore, there are provisions of the Rules of Procedure which clearly show and train what is under the obligation of the chairman to work, that only the chairman may interrupt the MPs or participants in the session. So, since at this time, at 17:30 p.m., the National Assembly without notice that the Prime Minister addressed the National Assembly, sent a notice, a letter saying that any of the members of the Government resigned, I have no reason not to state that the session of the National Assembly is under way in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. With full understanding of the need for all of us other MPs to be members 132 and 133. The Constitution does not know or use or use for other purposes, but abuses of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be. It's my duty and I'm trying to do it and fulfill it the way it is in the Rules of Procedure for me. Since I know that MPs like to hear when I say that I am in violation of the Rules of Procedure, today I am breaking it all day long, and I consider it to be an advocacy on the agenda, because I allow, by taking care of the agenda, that MPs abuse the Rules of Procedure, to speak beyond the subject of the agenda, because I consider it good for the atmosphere when it comes to this topic of the agenda. If you wanted to challenge replicas and exchange political views with replicas, it could, but abuse of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure – it cannot, because I am forbidden. The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51491	I really don't want to leave a shred of doubt about anything that doesn't comply with the law here. So the law in Article 24 speaks of the powers of the minister who resigned and says he is doing current jobs. In position 2, it explicitly states what the minister cannot do, and limits it only to the regulation, and even excludes it in these and those conditions, when he can even do so. I'm really sorry that we're so compromising this legal profession of ours... Madam former President of the Assembly, here I'm going to call you so you can answer, it's unfortunate that you think this is a regulation. It's such an elemental ignorance. If you insist this much, then it's time for me to really answer you, to hear the public. So it's already the height of ignorance. Because that's what Mr. Andric mentioned earlier. You want to discuss, you don't let the Assembly work here, you insult me all the time, and you don't even know what regulation is. It's really the highlight now. You don't know what regulation is. So, I don't have a problem at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51492	What are you nervous about? ? [[Breathing in benches.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51493	All right, now, that "a" throw and that, mangupa, with the street jargon... You're obviously a famous big guy, punk, I'm not and I'm not going to agree to that kind of communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51494	Minister, please, language and address to the highest participants of the session...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51495	I won't agree to that kind of communication, I have no reason. I'm a different man than you. I believe that words can say anything in polite words. There's no need for that "e," "a," "u", but what to do, that's what we're different. So the law is clear and the law clearly states what the minister cannot do. When a person's right is denied, it can't be widely interpreted. It's interpreted as just as it's written. The minister can't lay down regulations. Because of the general public (although I believe that everyone knows, it is a notorious matter), the adoption of regulations implies the adoption of sublegal acts in the power of the minister authorised by special law. I guess all MPs know that, and I don't know if there's anyone besides you two or three, who doesn't know. So it's about making the rules. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make it clear that the work of the National Assembly session, in addition to the MPs, is attended by the President and the members of the Government, by authorised representatives of other legislators, etc. I'm a member of the government until the Assembly can determine the end of the term of office. It's constitutional matter, dear colleagues. Is it possible that someone here isn't familiar? Is it possible that there is someone here to think that the minister in resignation is not a member of the government, that the minister in resignation is not involved in the work of the government, that he is not voting, that he is not doing all these tasks, including sitting in government sessions and sitting in assembly sessions? I really think this is already becoming political manipulation, perhaps for a session on Monday or Tuesday. I'm sorry that you've shown your experience of democracy and fine education in the Assembly, but I don't think any of this has any dilemma whatsoever.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51496	National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51497	I have to ask you, when someone calls someone a streetie, it's not an insult from your perspective? Don't argue with that silent voice now. You said I use street expressions. I was repeating what you were throwing at us in the first part of the session. I ask you, the chairman, is that not an insult? Can I keep using that word? I'm asking if I knew. Can we all or just these top intellectuals from the government?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51498	I am waiting for you to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51499	Article 107. Is it an insult? Why does it take you so long to figure out if it's an insult or not? Is it on that list of words you can't use, or can our MP group continue to use it on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51500	National MP, it would make sense if I hadn't intervened and warned the minister to take care of the address.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51501	How did you warn him? Privately? That internal correspondence, like him with Mirko Cvetkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51502	No, MP. I warned the minister, and you can see with your stenogram that the minister has been warned. I know you won't believe my word, but I didn't think so. I warned the minister of the need to treat one another with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51503	A street boy? Thank you. You think we'll forget about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51504	Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Micic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51505	She's ignorant, I'm a streetie.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51506	Madam Chairman, I'm using the right to a replica, since the minister mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51507	No, MPs, don't use the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51508	Yeah, I'm using. He called me "ex-president." Okay, then I'm using Article 27. Paragraph 2, which speaks of you being obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the Law. You said there were provisions that could be violated and that could not be violated. I don't know where you found that division, because every norm actually exists to be respected. We have called on Article 271 regarding the government's representation. It's breaking the law... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51509	National MPs, article 271, cannot be broken during this procedure. Thank you. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51510	Indeed, because of the public, not because of Mr. Andric, it's absolutely incorrect, everyone listened five minutes ago, that expression, such a qualification certainly wasn't used. So I'm saying the terms you used to throw at me that those are the terms used on the street, but far from me saying that to you. I don't have any reason, I hope I don't. But it's not my manners at all, even if I was thinking something else. I really think if someone yells that way -- "e", "a" etc., that's the expressions that are street and there's no dilemma. So that's my opinion, I'm saying it, but far from telling you it's you. Every single one of us in some...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51511	In effect... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51512	It's my private position, but don't get upset. I'm saying again, I don't know what the problem is...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51513	I pray without dialogue between the minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51514	Here, I'm done. I really don't know what the problem is, why...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51515	National MP Ivan Andric says, "How will you stop me? 'By applying the Rules of Procedure, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51516	So I can't understand why a member, or an interpretation of a member... Some people laugh. For some of the opposition, this is all interesting. So obviously this is someone's joke. I don't understand why a member of the law, or interpretation of a member of the law, has caused this much bile and controversy. As I don't understand why you attacked me that way. As I don't understand, and how is it possible to claim that I've been misleading the public? I just can't understand it. What's mediate, what's behind it, and what's the problem? This isn't the first time. Whenever I came to this assembly, you, Mr. Andric, had this personal relationship. You can't handle this personal relationship in politics. Your head of Parliament said – why didn't you say the days you wanted to comment on, everything would be fine. Even though I said I didn't want to comment, I wasn't authorized to make public a correspondence between me and the Prime Minister. I don't understand whether it's possible for a topic like this, a banal one that has no consequences, because I am a minister, I am a minister, I am a member of the government, you can't argue, and as such I have the right and the obligation to attend and the sessions of the National Assembly, why this is such a problem and why you are so upset and why you mention everything you mention. I don't understand why so much bile. I don't know what's causing you this kind of anger and this kind of approach to one problem or one question. Therefore, the full legal conduct of the Minister, the Government and the National Assembly is in this case when I attend the session of the National Assembly on behalf of the Government. It's totally legal. I don't think there's a serious lawyer who's not a politician (we politicians can interpret in our own way) who can say the opposite. Any exclusion of jurisdiction must be explicitly stated, any restrictions on rights are explicitly stated, and the legislator has done so in the position of Article 24(2) – he explicitly stated what the minister in the resignations cannot. Anything else can. And I repeat, for nine months, the ministers voted in government meetings and decided. So the only thing the minister can't do is lay down regulations. And don't, please, it's such a banal thing, and that's what polemics are all about here like we're talking about, I don't know what. No violations of the law, no violations of the Constitution, no violations of the Rules of Procedure. It's so obvious to anyone who listens to this. That's why at first I just didn't want to believe that he would insist so much. I have to admit that I'm very uncomfortable with the way this discussion is being conducted, and I have to say by an animosity that shows up in a discussion that should be, in my deep conviction, on a very different level.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51517	National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51518	Article 107, violation of dignity. The minister insulted us again, and he has deceived the public again. So, I didn't have a problem with that... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51519	People's MP, the Rules of Procedure can only hurt me. The Minister can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51520	Well, I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51521	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51522	Injury of Article 107. You allowed the minister, on several occasions, to address Mr. Andric personally and you did not punish him. Also, a violation of Article 271... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51523	National MP, a member of the 271st cannot be the subject of an injury, and Article 107...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51524	He said 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51525	Please be patient and be polite. I'm also asking you not to throw it away. People's MP, pitching is forbidden. So, please and I urge you to read the Rules of Procedure. The minister cannot harm the Rules of Procedure, only the chairman, and Article 271 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51526	He said 107th and 271...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51527	I ask you, People's Messenger, Zoran, that you treat the President politely. I also ask MP Ivan Andric not to suggest how the session is conducted. So I repeat that the legitimate political strategy of the parliamentary group is to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in achieving its political objectives. It is the right of the People's Messengers. It is the responsibility of the chairman not to violate order at the National Assembly session. People's MPs who insist on breaking order at the National Assembly meeting together with me participate in a mild violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I have already informed the MPs, who, when I say so, explain that such a violation is in accordance with Article 27, which I am taking care of on the agenda in which we are searching in particular the Law on Government and the Law on Ministries, or their amendments and additions, which I do not consider to be such a political strategy or will of any political group that should challenge the chairman in full capacity to impose criminal measures for the apparent violation of the Rules of Procedures. I hope that the MPs along with me today, and also tomorrow, will allow us to really work on amendments and to search into the particulars of the law that is currently the subject of our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51528	Can I go on now?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51529	You can't, MP. People’s MPs, I patiently explained that there would be no abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51530	I'm going to talk a little bit about this article 4 and the amendment to that article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51531	I checked in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51532	They say they've called in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-10-0.u51533	National MP Ivana Andric, I understand the enthusiasm that you are trying to provoke the incident during the National Assembly session, and I ask you to understand carefully that the subject of this session has been explained twice by my approach of taking care of the order of the session so that I do not consider it acceptable to give criminal measures, no matter how much will you show for it personally, as much as we have thrown out of the bench and suggested that I punish you, I call security, whatever. So, one more time. The political strategy of abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is legal and legitimate, but it is my duty to take care of the sitting agenda and I would really ask you to help me with that. All your will to send a political message by misusing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be prevented by taking care of order and by preventing the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. debate on the amendment to Article 4, with discussion in particular on amendments and additions to the Government Act. Thank you all for your participation.
