ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61786	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. We continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session attends 75, and I see many more MPs, and that makes me happy. Radiating the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, and before moving to a further debate, MPs have the right to request information and explanations under Article 286(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Konstantin Arsenović, so Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61787	Dear Presidency, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Under the existing Retirement System Act, the SVO Fund and PIO Serbia should be integrated by the end of 2011. I have data that there are a lot of issues, which can cause serious problems in the future functioning of the united fund. I'll just count some. Some 32,500 lawsuits of 47,000 beneficiaries of military pensions for collection are under way, and about 15,000 are charged on behalf of the debt to these military pensions users. Military pensioners have been disputed with the state over the lack of respect for the 2000 Salary Regulation and around 10,000 lawsuits have been filed so far. Charges are being filed for the right to increase the pensions of military pensioners by 11.06% and under the 2008 law. It has not been decided how the benefits of increased housing and schooling of children will be paid for those who have the right to do so, as well as the issue of social assistance. What will happen to the 3% amount of funds that the beneficiaries of military pensions voluntarily singled out from the pension budget on behalf of the construction of apartments for the evasive pensioners? What about that property? How will the military health system be financed based on contributions from the Pension Fund? How will the housing problems of pensioners who have not solved the housing issue and homeless be solved? Active elders are becoming increasingly dissatisfaction with unfavourable retirement conditions. The Association of Military Pensioners raised about 40,000 signatures to petition the government, the Assembly, the Citizens' Protector, asking for their problems and demands to be resolved. I do not think it is correct, all of these and many other problems are transferred to the jurisdiction of the PIO Serbia Fund, which has not contributed to such a situation. On the other hand, those seeking their rights will be found in a crackdown, where both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour will be advertised as incompetent. For this reason, I think it is reasonable for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour to consider these and other problems and delay the integration of the SVO Fund and the PIO Serbia Fund for at least two years, at which time the above problems are resolved in a legally regulated manner. From the following, my question - did the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour analyse the highlighted problems, as well as many others? Do they have a legal solution for them, and do they feel justified to consider and propose a government-prolonging deadline for the integration of the SVO Fund into the PIO Serbia Fund for two years, as well as to review the justification of the current solution to the social pension system of military insurance companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61788	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61789	Thank you. First, to share one impression that we all have on this side of the bench, which is that every day there are more and more of those who want to be opposition. But I think it's too late for that. My question is for the prime minister, how much does this country have? My question for the prime minister is to call a session of the Assembly to tell us exactly what the government's plan is, so that Serbia can take advantage of the chance ahead of us and gain candidate status in December of this year. I can share the opinion of absolutely everyone who deals with this topic, which is that they are shocked by the fact that the government saw yesterday when the European Commission's report decided on something that is very wrong in our opinion, which is to falsely present the report in the public of Serbia. From the title of the government-controlled media, I would single you out like – Serbia gets candidate status, Serbia has no new conditions, Serbia has fulfilled everything ahead of it, etc. It's just that what's a picture that can't possibly leave us, that the government of Serbia or the government of this country lives in a whole other country than the one we live in. This is one of the facts that certainly testifies that we are very far from the EU. The fact is, the MPs of the ruling party are attacking us here, accusing us of treason. At the same time, representatives of your government, at sessions declaring a state secret, are telling us some other truth about Kosovo. As far as we're concerned, it's very simple. We're interested in what the government will do by December 9th, we're talking about only a month and a half to make the barricades disappear, to restore talks with Pristina, and to get all the agreements done so far? These are the necessary conditions for Serbia to gain candidate status on December 9th. It is very difficult to communicate with any of the ruling majority, since it is next to this strategy that they make us all crazy and illiterate, by reading to us what each of us MPs has, reading to us something that is not in this report. Also, there was a new trend, which is that you started to run away from us. No one was here yesterday. We will see if today there will be a representative of the Government on the Committee on European Integration. We're here not to use each other's sentences, which is to wait for you. What I can say on behalf of my parliamentary group, we have done everything and sacrificed a lot of ours to help this assembly pass European laws, but we are obliged to warn you. What we are obliged to warn you is that we will no longer vote for any law in this assembly in this assembly. We expect the government to either offer a clear plan of what we are all doing together by December 9th, or to call elections as soon as possible, and thus allow Serbian citizens to choose the path they want this country to move in the period ahead. I have no doubt about what our position will be, but I have great doubt about what I think is happening now and I think it's very dangerous. Just don't lie. You can't lie about what's going on right now. It's very simple, either to have strength or not. In both cases, I think it's the responsibility of the ruling majority to do the best in this country. The best thing for this country is either to clearly state what the plan is and to implement that plan if it has the strength, or to turn around and go. The third variant is a variant that will distance this country from the EU over the longer term and deny each of us the prospect of living normally in this country. Please think very seriously. We're not asking you to answer, we're aware of your arrogance and arrogance, but at least think about what we're saying. At least offer to the public a plan that will clearly answer the questions raised first by Angela Merkel, and then are formalised in the European Commission's view. This precedent that so clearly talks about such specific issues as the European Commission's report, just talks in favour of the arguments that I am talking about. You can't hide the truth anymore. This is the 21st century. A clear plan in front of the Assembly. Everything else is the wrong step.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61790	Time. Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger. Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61791	Dear Mr Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, who are watching this direct transmission, I would especially like the citizens of Cačka, from the municipality of Luciani and the municipality of Ivanica. I have a question, i.e. asking Mr. Stankovic, Minister of Health, from a ministry that cares or should take care of the nation's health. I'm looking for a notice about what happened at the health center in the town of Cačka, in the hospital where I was born 53 years ago. We got more information from the media. I want to point out, for those who may not have heard or not know, there was an endangered baby health. The latest information we received from some of the leaders from the health center in Cačka, to go for the better, that babies do not have a temperature, but the official report, since an epidemic has been declared by the city's Public Health Institute, has not been reported by the health ministry, which, however, has been sent by inspections, what is causing and what is the reason for the outbreak? I would like to point out, Mr. Chairman, that this is not the first case of this kind that happens at the hospital in Chačka, in the health center of Cačka, that I and my colleagues from New Serbia and many colleagues here have warned of some things that are not relevant to this health center and to what is happening there. Should I remind the public that recently Minister Stankovic even said he had some elements of the crime, and related to how employees arrive at work. For those who don't know, their fingerprints were taken. I want to say that for several years now, Mr. Chairman, I've been telling you because that's what your party is capable of at the head of the health center in Chačka, I warned you, and there we were together in that National Assembly. I now address my colleagues from the DS, you are all silently our colleague here, Dr Costa Milosevic, as director of the health center, with him I have political differences, but as a very successful man and a doctor, and a successful director of the health center, replaced by a fax from Belgrade in such a way that no maids are replaced, let alone one prominent person in such a big city as the town of Cačak. All of these, gentlemen fellow MPs from the DS, are the consequences of what was done in this way. Therefore, Mr. Minister Stankovic, if you have been distracted in any way by the fact that you have no right to talk about the vaccine, I urge you to give complete information as regards the outbreak at the health center in Cačka. I was expecting, to tell you, the most honest, extraordinary press conference for the Minister of Health, to come to the town of Cachak. So, at the health center in Chačka babies are born, they are born, thank God, from three municipalities. What do young couples think about waiting for young mothers to have children? Are they coming here or not coming? So, at a time when a media house, I don't tell her my name here, not to advertise it, it's a battle for babies, and every honor to them, happens to happen in a health center, in a city as big as Chachak, things like this happen. While I have already mentioned "the battle for babies", Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we no longer embarrass ourselves as MPs and put a motion to vote in this National Assembly, to make a decision as small as our salaries, which are not small, especially in relation to most Serbian citizens, we set out in this fund from which incubators are purchased and where this battle is being fought for babies. I expect you to do so today, according to the Rules of Procedure, or tomorrow, since the Assembly will work, that every MP by the decision of this National Assembly should set out in that fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61792	Thank you. I can answer that right now. So, in terms of putting it to the vote, the Rules of Procedure are very precise, I hope we all read it, we all know it, so that, despite my best wishes, I cannot hear this request from you. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61793	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday the European Commission proposed to the EU Council of Ministers to grant Serbia candidate status. If that news behind this fact that I said had a point in the end, then it would be a reason for, I believe, our universal pleasure. However, a large number of sentences follow that sentence, of which I will only quote you one. I quote the BETE report -- the Commission recommended that accession negotiations begin as soon as Serbia makes further significant progress in further normalising relations with Kosovo. Anyone who knows a diplomatic dictionary is clear that in this case Serbia is treated as one and Kosovo as another state. Of course, this is no wonder, 22 members of the 27 EU members have recognised an independent Kosovo. Of course, Mr Andric also spoke about it, followed by an orchestrated media propaganda, I will have to say, extremely unprofessional or possibly professional media, controlled by this country, under which the further conditions of everything Serbia has to meet, and in fact it all comes down to one condition, which is that Serbia recognises the attributes of Kosovo statehood, whether it says the last sentence or not, so that yesterday can be qualified as a definitive defeat of the three-year policy of this government both externally and internally. I'm talking about an internal plan because Kosovo and Metohija, of course, is the internal problem of Serbia, to remind you. So, a policy that began three and a half years ago, to remind ourselves of a suicidal application, a unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, continued with one humble attitude towards the EU and by agreeing to a whole series of different blackmails that all had one ultimate goal, which is, as I have already said, that Kosovo would gain all attributes of statehood, on the one hand, and that Serbs in Kosovo would lose every contact with the institutions of the Serbian state. Of course, there's a question of what to ask this government? Should it be reminded that, even if we get candidate status, we will not get the start date of negotiations until we meet what needs to be fulfilled? It's not, of course, the conditions that other countries were getting. I don't mind that Serbia, of course, enters the EU, we all want it, but to come in like all other countries, meeting those conditions that other countries had, and not the conditions to give up the works of their territory, because that condition has not been met by any other country, nor would it have agreed to it. I say, what do you ask the government? The real political issue is not worth asking, because the real political question would be whether after all this it should change politics, turn Serbia towards itself? I do not say to close Serbia, on the contrary, to co-operate with all and the EU, but also with a number of countries from around the world that are on other continents. So does he intend to change that policy? I'm not going to ask that question, because it's clear that you don't. The Serbian government will continue to keep its head in the sand and Serbia off the edge of the break-in that led to it, pushing it into the last step forward. My question is quite simple and brief and requires an even shorter answer. It may not be political, but it's human. The question is, are you at least a little embarrassed?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61794	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did we fight for a democracy in which it is normal to force laws? Did we fight for a democracy in which it is even more normal to knowingly break the law, even if it was done by President SO Književec, President of Književec Municipality, their councilors or even the minister sitting in the government? Today I am speaking, looking for an explanation and asking on behalf of hundreds of employees of the "Dimitry Todorovic-Kapplar" OS and on behalf of parents about 1,000 students attending this school. Just as the home law says, i.e. the Law on the Education and Education System, the school board consists of nine members. The nine members are the following members: three representatives of parents, three representatives of employees and three representatives of local self-government. Right after this law, elections were held by a secret vote, where the teachers' council and the council of parents chose their representatives, where the republican educational inspector found that the entire election procedure was fully respected, but this was not enough for the most strange coalition in Serbia to appoint a school board, so SO Književec refused to appoint a school board. They ordered that elections be organised once more and teacherly larger and parents' advice once again selected their representatives. The Republic Educational Inspector once again found that the overall selection procedure was respected. However, this strange coalition, consisting of DS, SNS, LDP, SPS and former DSS committees, has simply violated the basic principle of democracy in the most primitive way, which is to choose and be elected and the provisions of the Law on the founding of education and education systems. This strange bookkeeping coalition actually very often shows that it is not interested in respecting the law and the will of the citizens of Književec and that the only thing they are interested in is the party setting up of directors and the production of numerous affairs, which, in fact, characterizes their work in the last three years in Književec. Let's get back to the subject. Rather, Minister Zarka Obradovic was sent a proposal to appoint a temporary school board. To make things worse, Minister Obradovic appointed a temporary school board and thus showed that there is something stronger than the law, something stronger than the interests of children, parents and teachers working in that school. The school board now has five SPS members and four DS members. Here I have to point out that in teaching councils and parent advices they have chosen both non-partisan personalities for the first and second time, and that the first and second time they have chosen the same people, which in itself strengthens their legitimacy and further slows down the moves that local powers and resolute ministers have made. These people on a temporary school board like this have proposed their candidate for the new director, organised a vote in the collective. The director received 19 votes, the former director received 102 votes from people working at the school. After this debacle, the minister refused to give consent to this man's appointment. Of course, a council from the ministry came to organise once again a vote in the collective, which the interim school board and did, this time in the comprehensive support of the president of the SO, the president of the municipality and several council members and they managed to draw up another three votes, so their candidate now won 22 votes, and the former director of 88 votes. After this, the minister asked only one thing, which is to respect the law. But it seems that the party lobbyings have done their part. The minister gave consent to a man he had never given consent to before. In this place, I have a few questions for Minister Obradovic. First, why didn't he give the candidate for the new director his first consent? The second question, why did the candidate for the new director secondly give consent if both the first and second times the law was equally violated? My third question is whether it is possible that it is so important within the party interest that it can crush the basic postulate of democracy, which is the right to choose, to be chosen, because this right has been denied both parents and teachers working at that school. I would also ask Minister Milan Markovic to deal with this municipality, because the bookkeeping authority regularly violates the law in two ways. Sometimes by suffocating all the provisions of the law, and sometimes by enforcing responsibilities that do not simply belong under the law, so, let's say, in Književec, there are sessions with one item of the agenda where one single conclusion is made, which is that a shifting director can actually be appointed and replaced only by a republican authority. That working day of SO costs about 50,000 dinars. It's not a little small for the Librarian, and with that money, they could fix something in town. I have to call on the authorities to determine the facts once already, because the scribe's authority is regularly involved in assisting the organisation of strikes in the House of Health and thus directly endangers the normal lives of the citizens of Književec. A step further, which is really unimaginable, is that they in one part and finance the strike, so in the building, SO is printed posters that say "strike" or photocopy these same posters. (President: five minutes. ) On the other hand, they say they do not have enough money for health care, when in the municipal budget for the whole year 2011 they have identified the incredible 10,000 dinars to help preserve health in Književec. People who deal with the Književec municipality really rarely do their jobs, and democracy has been brought down to the lowest possible level there has ever been. (President: I thank you. ) I ask you to stand together in the protection of the law and protect the fundamental postular democracy – the right of people to choose and be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61796	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61797	Dear Chairman, I would like to ask Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic a question. Given the fact that since yesterday, an important event has been politically abused in a way that not only can bring confusion among Serbian citizens, but also influences the understanding of Serbia's European path as a path where they lose something rather than vice versa -- they win. So, the question for the prime minister is: are there, as is said here, any hidden requests that are not seen from the European Commission's report or from any of the EU's representatives' statements? Here it is constantly trying to present that Serbia has certain conditions which are invisible, which are hidden and which will be delivered to it at some dark moment. What is also astounding is the malice that occurs here even among those who pretend or represent themselves as Eurofanatics, malice and denying the importance of what Serbia achieved yesterday. So, I've been following all the electronic media, today I've watched every newspaper and what none of the representatives of the state authorities have said except what it is, which is that this is an opinion, an EU opinion, which is important for gaining candidate status. If someone is trying to present now that it was anyone forging and pretending to be something more than that, then, on the one hand, denying the importance of what has been done in the phase in which we are now, while at the same time wanting to deny what Serbia has done and made huge progress. It is regrettable that everyone acknowledges that progress, only those who should argue that it is important to achieve the goal – EU membership, say it is nothing. One more thing – are we ashamed and should be ashamed? If it should be a shame for those who in three and a half years have achieved a huge step that the whole world acknowledges is bigger than many other countries on the path of European integration have achieved, then let them see who should be ashamed, whether whoever claims it is a shame or who did it and who did it, indeed, in the deep belief that it is in the best interest of Serbian citizens, which will certainly, in the time to come, be unequivocally confirmed. If it's a question of who should be ashamed, and he's been sitting in power for years and he hasn't solved a single problem, then let them answer who should be ashamed. No problem has been solved, corruption has flourished like never in this country's history, and then they ask the question of shame. So it's embarrassing to be hypocritical and to believe that the citizens are blind and that they forget or don't know what's going on and what's going on. I would once again like to congratulate the citizens of Serbia and everyone they believed in the European idea and who worked on it, the fact that the European Commission has given an opinion recommending that candidate status be obtained for Serbia. It is a great thing, despite the efforts of many to refute the results of what Serbia has done in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61798	Thank you. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic. I ask the People's Messengers to pay attention, to listen, to receive, and not to disturb each MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a lot of serious accusations about the government and the question of shame is being raised here. Both sides mention shame, but it seems to me that the problem is that this government and the people in that government have absolutely no shame, no shame. A lie, a lie, a lie, a fraud at every turn. I ask the question is it true that yesterday the vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly participated in the Fifth Assembly of Western countries, where were also representatives of Vojvodina and Kosovo? Who are you lying to? You tell the people a story, and beneath the grain you accept all the conditions imposed on you by Brussels and Washington. You essentially recognise Kosovo as an independent state. You gave them almost all the attributes, and you deceive the citizens of Serbia, believing that you will succeed in the next elections again through fraud. I ask the question, is it true that Borko Stefanovic is negotiating with the Cypriots without UNMIK on the CEFTA agreement? Well, as long as you're lying to us, how much longer are you cheating on these citizens? You're saying something that we won a bid for the EU yesterday. We didn't get anything. We have received a new blackmail, a blackmail that implies either you accept Kosovo's independence or there is nothing from Europe, and it is quite clear to every normal man, for every serious man. You can lie to yourself as much as you want, but you can't lie to this people anymore. Well, my men in some process for such lies, no one would have avoided jail time. So what do you expect? Who do you think you're dealing with, that this people are crazy? You were wrong. This is the end. I call again on the Serbian Parliament to respond to the SRS' request and to schedule a session of the Serbian Parliament where the government will report on the KIM situation, so present all arguments related to obtaining the candidacy. By the way, these lies and these frauds, we absolutely won't take it anymore. As for the next issue, I asked a question a few weeks ago about five billion euros in contributions and taxes due to my information from 17 businesses in Serbia. I didn't get an answer until today. Mr. Novakovic, you are a lawyer, a lawyer, you know that if someone allows someone to rob anyone, especially the state, that they commits a serious crime and that they have to answer for it. In particular, given the fact that, after a certain time, these claims from the state's staff are outdated. I'm asking a question about the questions we're asking. How long will you lie to us, how long will you deceive us? Why don't we get answers to the questions we ask, why don't we get what businesses they are, and how much they individually owe to the state for taxes and contributions? Because you know what companies they are, because they are your sponsors, because they open their legs doors in all ministries and in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. That's why you don't get an answer that someone owes this country five billion euros, and you don't care, you don't shut up and do anything. Such as you deserve only one place, and these are educational correctional institutions throughout Serbia. I hope that after these elections, they will open the door and I believe that they will be able to receive you all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61800	Mr. Todorovic, I will personally ask the service to, as chairman, urge you to receive as soon as possible the answers you have not received, and on the question of how it is set up. On the other 11 questions, if I have recorded correctly, the answers will arrive as the Rules of Procedure says. If they don't arrive, please repeat them. Thank you very much. Since more than one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, do not report for the word we continue to work. Does the proposing representative, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure and Energy want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the rapporteurs of the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by Mr Radojko Obradovic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group and vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61801	This is obviously a very unusual session, because the agenda point opened yesterday morning. Yesterday we tried several times to wait for a government representative, a government representative, a respected colleague Mrkonjic came today. This is one of the few situations where we haven't heard a single word from the government's representatives about the items on the agenda. Does that mean the government has nothing to tell us about these points? Does that mean he doesn't want to explain the text of the law to us or is it some kind of practice where we don't even have to have two-way communication? It has happened before that representatives of the government have talked about what is not in the law, but it does not happen very often not to say a single word in defense of the laws we need to discuss. Today they're on the agenda of four laws. One law on granting a guarantee to the Building Directorate in favour of the Commercial Bank, another law on borrowing related to the social housing project, the third loan to the Council of Europe, is the fourth loan to the EPS according to the "Colubara". These are four laws under which Serbia owes 200m euros. If we look at each of these proposals, and you Mr. Mrkonjic agree with me in the state things can't be seen individually, if we look individually – each of these proposals stands and there is a need for each of these loans, and at the Building Directorate, both at the EPS and related to insurance and social housing. Then it's not a state, it's a set of individual interests in each area. That is why there are governments that will have their own policy, their own programme and which will have priorities. Whenever new borrowing comes, the government's representative tells us how it is needed and how it is necessary for each of the individual areas, but it just proves that this government doesn't have a program, that it's actually represented by a set of parties, that each of these parties has their own interests, each of them is pushing their own project that can stand or not stand, but then the country leads to a situation where it is today. None of these laws have any analysis of the effects the borrowing will produce in Serbia. Only the credit numbers are listed here. It explains what kind of costs are going to be, not all of them are listed, but there is no analysis of what this result will be, for example. to employment. What kind of employment will be when these guarantees, these loans, are ratified? Will it create a new job in Serbia, will it increase GDP, will some of the problems that exist in Serbia be solved? On what grounds can we say that this loan is good or not? Every time we get into a situation like this, I like to mention my colleague Colakovic, a friend of mine from the PUPS party. I suppose counterpart Colakovic would ask us to owe one 500, 600m euros and thus increase pensions. From the point of view of the pensioner, it's a completely justified thing. Pensions are very low, they will eventually not be increased by two or one and a half percent, but by 1.2%, which is negligible. From the point of view of a million and 700,000 people who receive terribly small pensions would do well to be in charge of doing so. So let's ask the educators and they'll say, let's say that there's no state, then there's no state policy, then there's no state policy, then it's all a set of individual interests. The other thing is, if you look closely at these loans, then it's clear why no one came to defend them, then it's clear why no one can stand behind it. 56m-euro credit for social housing. If you look closely at 13% of the loan, or eightm euros, it goes to the Ministry of Environmental Protection to form a unit to run the project. So it's not enough that the Ministry should worry about urbanism, about construction, about spatial planning, about protecting the environment, about mining, but now that ministry is starting to build apartments and run projects around Serbia. What happens tomorrow when that ministry breaks down, when some new minister comes? Will the ministry then compete in the tender for construction firms? Is that part of the government, too? You know well that there exists, for example. The CIP in this country. The state firm you used to run, which works very well. Why can't she run a project like that? There is a Serbian building directorate, which also deals with project management? Since when have the departments been running housing projects? Since when does this happen? We're talking about decentralisation. A number of laws have been passed which have been passed over to the AP Vojvodina, local self-government. Did this lead to a downsizing of a state administration employee? It's not. On the contrary, there are even more employees in the ministry than there have been, although there are fewer jobs. Every new law establishes a new agency. There is a government in Serbia, there are ministries, there are administrations, there are directorates, there are directorates, there are agencies, there are different other bodies, now the ministry is taking over and spending eightm euros to start learning to run the project and then we wonder why the administration is so big. For the simple reason we're trying to set things up in a completely wrong way. It's a simple solution. In the proposal for this law is a very clear explanation of why Serbia is in this situation? Why is the public sector so big and why we have such problems. Not one word has given an explanation of how public debt will be after these four duties. Will he grow, will he fall, as we return him, what are the total obligations, what is going on? It is often referred to as a criterion of 45% of gross social product and how far less than it is in EU countries, where 60% is. In doing so, it forgets the basic facts in which our economy is comparable to most of the EU's economy. Does any of these developed countries we like to compare with have, for example, the obligation to separate 240 billion euros or 7% of gross social product for the PIO Fund each year? This can also be treated as an internal debt. Every year from now, so who knows when 7% of the gross social product goes to retirement. See how much of Germany's budget goes to their pension fund or some other country. When we look at interest participation and participation of other things, then we get to 10% of gross social product already spent in advance on various things. Then we should wonder if Serbia is in charge or not. Only in the last few years, since this government's been going on, the debt has been increased by 7.8.10 billion. We don't even know how much today. Then how can we talk about generation solidarity? What will this generation leave for the next generations? Except for the interest, except for the debts and the obligation to pay back what was spent. It would all make sense if you stayed behind this generation of capital investments that you often talk about. But most of these couples don't go into capital investments. Only to spend over a year on capital investment would Serbia have an infrastructure that is at the level of the world's most developed countries, but that's not so. Most of it goes into liquid consumption and no one takes care of interest. What exactly are interest rates? What's the interest on these loans? What's interest? Interests are actually supposed to represent that new value, which on a certain loan, when that new value is created, will allow that loan to be returned. Can any of these projects ever return the interest on which they take these loans? Of course not. Only those debts from a few days ago of a billion dollars with interest of seven comas somewhat. Do you know any job in Serbia that can bring profit of 7.5% to an annual level? Well, it doesn't exist. Therefore, it is clear that we are unable to return even that interest. And when we talk about borrowing effects, is there any kind of analysis in the government? Have you discussed the effects of these loans at any session of the government? Of course, at the state level not all loans can be effective. For example, there is a political reason for the adoption of certain loans. For example, a political reason could be to stop emigration from certain Serbia's territories. Some of Serbia's territories have run out of inhabitants. You can adopt a development loan that will allow for entirely non-marketable conditions to be built there, financed by companies, implemented by infrastructure-specific facilities and to stop the population and that is from the point of view of state interest. We don't see a single explanation here. No reason why these loans are taken, but we speak individually. Now let's talk about one thing, the other, the third or the fifth. That doesn't get us anywhere. He's only taking us further to the debt increase. It leads us to leave all the problems to some other governments and lead us to Serbia and Serbia's economy falling more and that is the consequence. Know for yourself what problems you face in the realisation of major projects. Which of these big projects have these companies of ours that you and I talk about very often? What is our firm capable of competing in the country on major projects? What are we going to do to make construction become, that's the topic you understand most about and that's no secret, but what are we going to do that our construction firms can be the best export products Serbia has? So that was 15 years ago, the best product this country had, the best export product was construction. It was billions that came to this country every year. On the fingers of one hand, we can count the serious construction sites that exist in the world today. It is also your task, as Minister and as my MP, but unfortunately during this term, neither you nor I have been celebrated in helping construction. My extenuating circumstance is because I'm an MP and I'm an opposition MP. It's a task, not to talk praises about any new borrowing, about how we leave it to future generations now. The Prime Minister here has officially informed us that we are leaving to future generations, i.e. the next government is left a billion and a half euros in account. Well, that would be nice if it were money, but it's a loan, a 14% interest bond in Serbia, 7.5% of the bonds, and it says, we leave it to them as a gift from us. What kind of gift is that? I'll take all the time you want, and I'll leave it to you to pay it back. These are our assignments. Unfortunately, there is no explanation for any of this, there is not a single sentence on how we are going to solve any serious problem in Serbia, and you know it yourself, in order for you to be able to solve the problem you should first be aware that the problem exists. As long as you're not aware that the problem exists, you're far from solving the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61802	The word is Mr. Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61803	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I thank my friend Obradovic, who has enabled me to state my position on these issues that he mentioned today. First of all, yes, I say that we have made our views clear and precise about the borrowings. Our first position is very clear and precise, when it comes to borrowing, and especially abroad, that it does not seem to be when it comes to public spending. Here we are very precise and clear and agreeable with Mr Obradović's exposure. The second attitude we expressed, precise and clear, is that we should look for internal reserves and we mentioned two possible directions. First, when it comes to public procurement, which we have talked about several times and agreed that in this respect we should probably look for better solutions than the law provides. The other direction is to reduce total public spending, when it comes to state, state and other institutions, there is plenty of space. The third thing I want to point out is that it's a matter of pension. I personally think that in a different way and observes it, pension is an economic category, earned, by categories, has to be paid off. The other thing about it, we've made it very clear, the Pension invalidity Insurance Act was passed at the end of last year. It is applied and is now applied in that sense. As it all turned out now, that's another thing, but in any case, when it comes to the application of the Pension Insurance Act, we point to the problem that is present, which is the payment and obligation of employers, contributions. We've expressed dissatisfaction because the unique number is 233 billion dinars to the PIO fund. That's where we're looking for solutions to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61804	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. The word is Mr. Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61805	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike Mr. Obradovic, I do not find it so strange that yesterday we had a session delayed for today, without Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic feeling any need to explain these four laws. In fact, taking over debt on behalf of different budget users of around 200m euros. It is no surprise that it is impossible to say anything or anything responsible to say about the guarantee we give to 80m euros in "Colubari", not to say a word about a scandal that has been shaking "Colubar" for a year and about a scandal that has been shaking Serbia for several weeks. Which is why taxpayers in Serbia would guarantee and ultimately pay 80m euros in credit plus interest for several years, without guaranteeing that they will not continue to rent equipment or machinery in Colubara under current conditions, thus not leaving the company several dozen million euros per year. When Mr. Colakovic wonders why there are companies in Serbia that owe 2,300,000 euros to the pension fund, then one of the answers should be sought both in public enterprises and in the company Kolubara or in the EPS, whose member she is. The answer can also be sought by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and any minister who comes here occasionally to explain the law, and you can ask Mr. Cvetkovic tomorrow if he feels the need to finally come to parliament and say something concrete about the budget after those global figures and announcements of leaving money for the black days he spoke of two days ago. For the average Serbian citizen, the only logical question after all he's seen about the Colubari after everything that's been going on in Colubara, which is why we're giving this guarantee to a megabager, so there's probably an idea that this mechanism is also being rented from so-called privates. You know what, there's another weird thing. The representative of this assembly is the director of this company, the director of this company. Mr. Ceran, as far as I can tell, is not here today. It might be more useful to hear from him a few words of justification for this kind of guarantee of technical, economic, financial, than we expect from Mr. Mrkonjic. This is where I see the list of registered speakers. Not only is he not here, Mr. Ceran, but there is no one from these moderate European ranks, unlike us, who are probably Eurofanatics, as it seems to me, thinking of us just before she tried to call us Mrs. Kolundji. We need to get into some of the little details of this contract. You know what, 80 million euros is the amount of credit or guarantee. There are also 2m euros in consulting services and 800,000 euros in one-off fees. Well, only those amounts would be enough to solve several serious problems in this country, and even if a thousand times that terrible 500-euro loss were compensated, 50,000 dinars due to the unnecessary session of SO Književec, as I just realized, what Mr. Rangelovic was rebelling about in this flood of opposition speeches in the last days of the ruling coalition MPs. The second 20m-euro guarantee for the Fourth July settlement, namely construction site preparation and construction equipment, is even more scandalous to prepare construction works. There's just no telling how much interest there is actually going to be. We give a parallel guarantee of social housing and for the construction of these apartments, which, even according to Minister Dulic's claims, are practically also social housing, which is, according to his announcements, sold on the market so that citizens with average income can buy an apartment through this type of housing, that is, through this type of credit. Another problem is that practically most citizens, all those who have an average salary, in the social category, are in the social needs category. I think we need to pool those two loans, and that's how we consider them here. Secondly, I don't understand, Minister Dulic is constantly talking about how construction sites are nothing in Serbia. He adopted that positive practice from you. You despite all the faults and all the objections we have on you and finish up some construction site. I'm not sure Mr. Dulic is working at the same pace. I don't think there's any particular problem or special quality in you. You haven't made this country into the last two, three years of that atmosphere where you were very successful, as you yourself claim, in 1999 or 2000, for that, first of all, the party responsible for this ruling coalition and the President of the Republic, so DS, when a new campaign was made in return for the country's renewal, is then logically that you are the most successful in it, you simply have the most experience, although I see at these openings that even you are at times uncomfortable with these ideas, that the tourist offer in Serbia will flourish by passing ships with the students under the bridge at Beška, ten times cheaper than this bridge in Belgrade. We're talking about energy today and the construction industry, or housing. You know, it's not quite normal to have an explanation for the 80m-euro guarantee, and there's not a single word in it about what the state of the construction industry is or what the state of the construction operation is, as is often said. Is it true that in the last two, two and a half years, instead of the 120,000 workers in the construction industry, as we had at the beginning, that number fell to a figure between 70 and 80 thousand. It is not a matter of elemental disaster, as we spoke a few days ago, it is a matter of poor legal proposals and legal texts that are also here in a more or less similar silence on the part of the ruling coalition and by ministers adopted. Two and a half years ago, we told you that the Law on Planning and Construction would destroy the construction industry, that it was too much for a population that was at that point popular with the invitation to tycoons have a lot, so now they're going to have to return some of it through that conversion. Nothing happened in the end except that the construction industry was destroyed, and all the projects were stopped. Then a year and a half ago, you came with a directly corrupt draft law on aiding the construction industry in terms of the economic crisis and, among other things, this guarantee, this 20m-euro money plus the interest that we are giving today is due to the law. Even those companies you've forced into this business work practically on credit, they're practically funding the state and its debts today. Only today, according to an emergency procedure for a law that will come into effect immediately, is the state's debt of 20m euros to the domestic bank so that it can pay at least those minimum obligations, or those obligations that have so far come into effect and which have effectively covered those rare companies that have not yet been destroyed, and they can begin to do some work. That's how it worked in 1999 and 2000, so debts were paid in 2001, 2002, 2003. And according to Mr Radenkovic's inspired discussion a few days ago, that no government in the past 11 years had had such a crisis and such a situation, so it had no such challenges, had a government 11 years ago, faced a much more catastrophic situation in the country. As far as interest is concerned, it is very clear that Serbia with such performances cannot service those interest, but that is not the ambition of the legislator of these laws. Each law has a grace period of 12 or 18 months or two, and it is clear that the burden of returning this loan is transferred to citizens in a year or two, or the next government, which will have to find money to repay these loans. Although this loan for Kolubara seems to be very favourable, the six-month Eurobor plus 1% margin, which would, for example, be around 2.8% of the total interest for Serbia today, because it is much more than projected GDP growth this year, and practically in the coming year. Not to mention that Serbia has very problematic statistics, so we never really have the real data of what our "ji-di-pi" is and how much it grows, it is more or less based on estimates, usually with six months of delay, or in the middle of next year we realize that even compared to the conservative projection of the growth of "ji-di-pi", according to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, real growth is much smaller and that it is mainly in those sectors of the economy that is either privatised or where the private sector manages to function somehow. The decline in production and huge losses are linked exclusively to the public sector, the state sector, what you are still trying to preserve, despite the inevitable point of history, as social property, or social sector. Because of this situation or this kind of silence that is going on yesterday and today, we also had to do this day, that part that's about the parliamentary issues to start this way. This is not a matter of Eurofanatism and Euroscepticism. And we, like Mrs. Kolundjia, looked at all the media yesterday and this morning and there was a lot of fanaticism in those statements, but anti-European. And not by political parties or political leaders who are expected to do so. The idea that yesterday's protest of the SRS would be presented as the only fundamental opposition to the EU simply does not work. On several occasions in recent weeks, the European Commission and European officials have sharply criticised the incendiary rhetoric coming from Serbia regarding the north of Kosovo and European integration. European officials did not mean opposition champions and opposition MPs. They thought of your party's president, Mr Mrkonjic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, as referring to Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration Bozidar Djelic, who again managed to give a statement this morning that there was a part of the international community and of some countries that wanted to push Serbia into a European stalemate, but we failed to do so. How stupid and shortsighted the statement suggests that these same countries that are today accused by Mr Djelic will decide Serbia's candidacy for a month and a half. It is a great bureaucratic recommendation from the European Commission. It's great that all the laws in this House have been passed. It is selfish not to admit that virtually none of them would have been adopted without the vote of the LDP, despite the internal weaknesses of the ruling coalition, but if that way you want to calm down the political scene and help the country still get a positive status in the next month and a half, then first solve the problems in your ranks. That, Mrs. Kolundjia, is no longer a problem with the SPS, the PUPS, the JS or any other party. The fanatical speeches against the EU, against what is the condition of the European Commission to get candidate status, were heard yesterday from here from your ranks. Your Kosovo MP again used incendiary rhetoric yesterday, the one that prevents us from solving problems, that is to say, how you interpreted it in the media, the default dialogue with Kosovo and the solution to all the other problems that are related to the issue. Only depends on whether Serbia will get candidate status. This parliament has done more or less everything. It's up to us not to ruin anything else by the end of the year. But I think that Parliament is a natural place for the President of the Republic, and above all, the Prime Minister and to put forward a clear plan on how we will solve these problems, on these laws or on any other matter, since these laws, or on the problems to which these laws relate, are the European Commission's report. When you mention fantastic successes in fighting corruption, these are three sentences in the European Commission's report. The other 15 talk about all the problems that still exist, about public procurement systems, inefficient management systems, about the problems of the country's excessive impact on economic movements and on economic flows. Beyond all these laws here, we need a political message or a political plan to solve these problems by November. They have their own name, regardless of the diplomatic formulation in the European Commission's opinion. They are called dialogue renewal, full respect for the agreements reached with the EU, that means agreements on the customs stamp, and for EU member states, the agreement on the customs stamp implies that Kosovo customs officers are at all border crossings or administrative lines, however you will, in Kosovo, means both in Jarinj and Brnjak. In the next phase, this implies a complete exercise of jurisdiction. It is an accurate formulation from the European Commission's EULEX report on the entire territory of Kosovo. That means the Kosovo Mitrovica court, that means all other institutions. It may be useful not only for us Eurofanatics or Eurosceptics or Eurorealists, but also for the MPs of your party, to hear here how we're going to solve this plan. Then there may be no turning out as they came yesterday from Miss from Kosovo Mitrovica or from those whom Bozidar Djelic has hit the public in the last days, and I see that the forgotten Vuk Jeremic, who also says today that we will not change our policy towards Kosovo for a single yt, although it is a condition for the European Commission to change our policy towards Kosovo, because it has been good in our Kosovo policy so far, then this recommendation would be unconditional and would be followed by a precise date for the start of negotiations. It is not our problem with one or two European countries, it is our problem with the whole EU. (President: I apologize, Mr. Djuric, it is an obligation on the agenda. ) It will not end in December by Italy, which is a lobbyist for Serbia, ending in victory over Germany, which allegedly hates us. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61806	The word has Mrs. Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61807	I really don't want to measure anyone's enthusiasm and classify it. If we're in the middle of this and this is what it's about to do to actually achieve this historic goal, I don't think you've ever had a closed door, as far as this government and this parliamentary majority are concerned. We have always been extremely prepared to include all those who believe in the European future Serbia in this process because it is difficult, complicated, it carries certain traumas and it is not so simple to do everything that is ahead of us. In that sense, it really did not occur to me that I was reducing any contribution to achieving this goal. I understand the need to compete politically on some idea. The fact is that all laws are passed thanks to the votes of the ruling majority. The fact is also that the LDP has supported some European laws with its votes and we have never denied it or will deny it. We consider this extremely important not only for the performance of the job, and the fact is that we have always been sensitive to all the suggestions that can help to improve these laws from the point of view of the Serbian citizens' interest. In that sense, I don't think we have any dispute, nor do we have room for a dispute. What might also be the difference I want to make is that we have an understanding of the complexity of the problems that Serbia needs to solve and we understand that it is not that simple because it is about human destiny. That's what we might be different about. We don't think the solution is that simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61808	Time. Thank you. Mr. Bojan Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61809	There's no doubt that it's about the human fates we have to solve. In you, Mrs. Kolundjia, and in most of the DS, I have no doubt in that sense that your human lives or human fate or the human destiny are the greatest part of ordinary people in the first place. I'm just saying that at some point, it seems to me, when some of your officials say, that in the first plan of the fate of the criminals from northern Kosovo or the fate of the four presidents of the northern Kosovo municipality that we had here yesterday, they were trying to be involved in a solution to a problem that had nothing to do with or at least they shouldn't have anything to do with it. That's all the trouble. So what our requirement is for you to start solving the problems of most people in northern Kosovo, to start thinking a little more or to be a little more operational when you solve Serbs' problems south of Ibra and the largest number of Serbs north of Ibra. That is why our proposal on several occasions was to invite people to return from the barricades home and continue the negotiations concerning northern Kosovo, with a very concrete proposal that you accept as a starting point, that is to say, that this country accepts Ahtisaari's plan. We have offered you very clearly, several times, not only in the past few weeks, but in the past few years, our political help to do so, as you have had political assistance in votes, to adopt some of the European laws. There's nothing questionable about that. Our problem is that two months before the Decision of the Council of the European Union, the goal we worked for together, I think we worked together in these three and a half years adopting laws here, that it is not known and that the laws are no longer sufficient, and that they are no longer good enough, technically good European, but needs rights, stronger or more operational European policy. We expect you to tell us if you're ready to implement that policy, and for that you would have our support, or not. It's the only dilemma we have here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61810	Mrs. Kolundjia, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61811	Very short. So, if it is the Democratic Party's readiness, then the goal is certain. So, as far as the Democratic Party is concerned, Serbia's European path has never been under question, regardless of how some individuals' statements are interpreted, because if we were to base ourselves on it, then we could ask ourselves a lot of questions, because various things say. I just want to say one more thing and it's very short. So, people living down there, we still have to accept that, that they're experiencing their own reality differently from the ones we're here. I don't think anyone has the right to judge them strictly because they're life-interested in what's going on down there and because maybe from a distance, what's going on down there looks different than those who are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61812	Thank you. The word is from Mr Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61813	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is inexplicable that this government of the Republic of Serbia is extremely in charge in the last months of its power. We can't explain that recently a billion bonds, now 200 million euros, in recent months of government, at the end of the construction season. Who has so far allowed someone to owe some future governments who have come with such numbers lately, if it's not just going to be used as an election campaign? It is unexplainable that in the last months of power, at the end of the term of office, when the election campaign began, at the end of the construction season, someone was in charge, for example, of the Building Directorate. He's raising the Building Directorate's loan, which begins to be built on November, October, December, January, and then we have elections. What's to be built during the winter? What commercial loans are, you see, these are short-term commercial loans from the Commercial Bank. For residential construction, and especially for social construction, this is not how commercial loans can be taken, with a short repayment deadline and with the maximum rest of the 12-month capital. It's never worth it in construction. This loan is being taken to reprogram some previous credit that was taken under such commercial conditions, which the Ministry did extremely badly, and you here approved it and now that he couldn't repay it, now he's taking a new loan, to cover that loan. Then we'll take even harder terms of commercial credit, to cover this loan too, because there won't be a chance that it will regularly be paid off. A loan in construction when taken, it must be shown by the elaborate that is attached, by the study that will be done, that it will be profitable and that it will be able to pay off the sale of apartments. Who else takes commercial loans for housing? Mr. Minister, you're a builder yourself, and that's impossible. Right? You, from your experience, if you could take a loan for 18 months and build something, do something, so now you're taking another loan to cover that loan you didn't pay, so you're going to take a third one to cover this one, etc.? I was recently in China with Madam President of Parliament. What I heard there from the top of China and from the directors of China's largest banks, that they offer loans with three percent of total interest, a grace period of five years, for 20 years. These are loans that can build a solid building. Why are we running away from these loans? To court and make traffic for some banks, like the Commercial Bank? We know who's involved, this is business. We're talking about the EU, I'm listening to comments and bickering here. The EU is making a big business through us, giving us short-term loans with very unfavourable conditions. There's a lot cheaper money in the world than they get, here's concrete, let's say, for example, Kolubara. Somebody explain to me why we're taking this loan that's twice as expensive as the other loan that others are offering us? In order to reach out to someone to see through our fingers and put us to be some candidates, and we know what the main condition is that we cannot meet and we will never, until we meet it, become and get a date, become an EU member. I was in a meeting with the director of the largest Chinese bank, who offered Mr. Skundric, who offered your former Energy Minister a 3% loan for energy, five years grace period and a loan for 10 to 20 years. That's what they're offering for Kostolac, that's what they're offering for Kolubara, that's what they offered for Obrenovac. Why are we ashamed to take a place where it's twice as cheap and double as where we take it? Who's the one who keeps dragging us to the same banks, and we know who's been running financials for 10-11 years in Serbia and is running a tough campaign now, with whose resources? Please, is there anyone here to figure out, we're taking credit before the elections to build and the snow is starting to fall. Now we're taking credit, in a few months to build some facilities, and we're in charge, and what's the point of the story? To discuss the tender, to assign some business to our company, and to secure ourselves for the campaign. That's why we're gonna assign the fat next government to come, so let them see where they're going and what they're going to do. I don't agree with any borrowing on this basis, at the moment of a full election campaign of all political parties. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you're all on the campaign. You fight in the field like gypsies. I apologize for insulting the Roma, but that's our people's saying, say they're fighting, what they're doing, make a mess. Now you're arguing about making a fuss in the field, and you don't even know what you want. You're fighting, you're having political conflicts, you're looking at who's going to provide more money to make a better profit in the campaign. Therefore, these four laws that have been offered are very incorrect now. At the end of the construction season, before winter, the country is in debt, the state is in debt, the state is burdened under very unfavourable conditions, traffic is being made to some banks, and, of course, business is being assigned to some companies that will help someone in the campaign tomorrow, or support, or run a campaign. This is all used in the campaign. I recently spoke to the prime minister here, about two billion and 300m euros spent in the current ruling coalition's campaign. It's money from Mobtel's sale, it's money from the sale of Belgrade stores, it's money from the third operator. The Prime Minister didn't answer me. He was the finance minister in that government. The outgoing government left two billion and 300 million paid money and even the dinar failed to spend, as it was the technical government and could not spend the funds in the scheduled elections. The finance minister spent it all through the campaign, and then you came, gentlemen from the government, and you owed this government in your term of office with over six billion euros. Here, now 200m euros, that's six billion and 200m euros we've done a variety of contract classifications, responsibilities, etc. I repeat, what has been done? Where it was most to be given and where it was promised, the Ministry of Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was given the least. The man's in an awkward situation. It's given at least. It was given to others who weren't even on the budget list anywhere. That's where it was given. There's a hell of a campaign going on here. Of course, they said -- that might not be interesting, to be some extra results, to let down the water that ministry, to let the minister tell his story, what was in the budget we'll cut. Who'd they cut the most into budget rebalancing now? You, Mr. Grouchy. They took half your budget. What are you going to do at the end of the year, when you've already done some of the work? You come into a difficult situation, and someone gets both a hand and a hat and spends their unsuspecting funds because such an opportunity is given to them to go through the campaign. These loans aren't suitable, they're not favourable. Please consult Parliament Speaker Mrs Djukic, consult Mr Skundric, who was the minister by yesterday, and you will see what benefits we receive elsewhere, where people are ready to give us immediately a billion to give us according to the most favourable conditions. Do you know what a five-year grace period means in energy, when you invest, make, hire people, build, create everything, and after five years you start getting income and paying off a loan from the new income you're getting? And not like this, you put the state in charge and, of course, then you take back the loan and you repay the existing loan. From credit to credit, from credit to credit, and where do we come from? Where will we end? So please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, think about this, consult a lot of people, and don't let this euphoria take you away. It is true and it is good that we have received some positive signal to the EU, but it is impossible to achieve what is set. It's impossible for anyone to realize what they're looking for. They're not asking us to sign anything, but they're asking us to bring it in, let it go that way. Whether you're ready for it or not, you should think about it. I feel very bad when I listen to various stories here of some irresponsible politicians from the ruling coalition, who say – it's all settled, it's all over. It's not all over, it's just begun, and a lot has to be done and done. So, please stop this, if these loans were elsewhere, and if it was a tender for these loans, maybe someone much better and more favourable would come forward, and consider also placing these loans in what you promised in the election campaign. You promised, gentlemen, that you would make the highway when you stopped the concession from Belgrade to Cačka. You promised Pojate-Preljin, you promised Nis-Dimitrovgrad, you promised the Macedonian border, but how did you promise? That's where you'll direct the credit lines. Now you've left Mr. Secretary out of harm's way and taken it all away from him. Here, here in the loan he doesn't get a single dollar, not in the previous loan anywhere. Now will the people, of course, ask – Minister, did you promise four highways? You're still going to defend the law for someone else, of course, to give each other money, and he's not coming here to look at each other, so he can say why, how and how. It makes you feel good to sit there, to defend the law for another, and of course it makes you and removes that part of the investment that was promised. It's said to be a priority. The Ibar highway, so the funds that are coming, the credit lines are moving there. They didn't give you anything. How does it work? On your word? Well, he can't do it anymore. Thank you so much, and I hope this doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61814	Thank you. The word is by Mr. Mico Rogovic, an authorised representative. I'm sorry, Dr. Djura Muchenski's here to see you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61815	Chairman, I report to the Rules of Procedure, and I think that the dignity of the National Assembly, Member 107, has been violated, and that you have been obliged to warn the previous speaker, because in his speech, he was insulting to the representatives of the Roma national community. I would ask you to make a warning about this and not allow this kind of speech in the National Assembly anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61816	Thank you. I did not notice that during the address of the previous speaker, there was a damage to the congregation’s reputation. I'll look at the stenogram, it's possible that we're living people, we make a mistake, but I'm sure it wasn't intentional. You're not happy with my answer? Yes, it is. Thank you for that. Mr. Rogovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61817	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, we have four laws in front of us within the second point of the joint principle and uniform search, two of which are the draft laws on the granting of a guarantee and two of which confirm the agreement. How interesting this issue is today, my previous speakers, Mr Đurić, Obradovic and Mr Ilic have also proven their discussions. Participation in this debate, I will also try to confirm, my previous words, that I will refer primarily to the Guarantee Law, or the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Civil Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade and the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement for the Risk Insurance Project in the case of elemental disasters for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I will begin the first of the draft laws on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade. In addition to the accumulated problems, which burden the Serbian daily life, I will indeed try to stay at these two points, respecting these two points, respecting and not repeating myself in the context of my distinguished colleagues of previous speakers. This loan in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, based on the responsibility of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, I deliberately underline this d.o.o. Belgrade, because in the part of the further explanation we will probably face some things and provisions of this bill that did not stop at the very least. That's what I'm going to try to prove in further exposure. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Minister, I am telling you as a representative of the Government that we are likely to apply for constitutionality assessment to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. This loan has been used to refinance loans since 9 December 2010, which has been used to equip construction land, at the site of Kasarna Stepa Stepanović, or "July 4th" barracks known in the people, and we should now say it is a former barracks, because certain works have been carried out at that location, at a location below the Trosarina in Belgrade, as it stands in the light of the reasons for the law being passed, in the fourth paragraph. When, not you personally, this government started building buildings at the site mentioned, editing building land, there was a story, at the very least, as counterpart Djuric said it was about social housing. However, the amount of 1300 euros per square, nor does it say that it is social housing, and you, Mr. Minister, since you come from this area know perfectly well that at the mentioned location, in the nearby locations and at much lower prices, apartments are built in contrast to the price of squares offered by the Building Directorate of Serbia. What was said at the beginning? It's been said that all apartments will be bought in advance. If you enter the Serbian Building Directorate website, you will see that after almost two years, it is not about buying 5,000 apartments. Not all apartments have been bought, even below 50% of the apartments in this location. This suggests that the reasons why the loan was taken in 2010, the underlying credit, its start of repayment, goes half next 2012, and the end of the payment, is 2014. There are clear reasons why interest is not negligible, that someone has to pay it and that the story of so-called social housing is being torn down with this already said one, so-called cheap apartments. And against this story, indeed, the Serbian Progressive Party has no objection, but we have against, in the context of laws like this, draft laws, interest, delaying deadlines, we have a story that in the beginning of 2012, which is within a few months, that the people who took the loans and paid off at that location will move around, they have really moved but it is amazing to say in early March or by 1 May that people in that location can move into their apartments and what they will have in the next 10 years. They'll have their own apartments in a location where they'll run out of machinery for 10 years. Infrastructure will not be arranged and everything that was provided for under the infrastructure related to 5,000 apartments, so that at the very least they will have their apartments and first owners, but also hell of life related to housing for the next 10 years. What is obtained by guaranteeing the Republic of Serbia? What is the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia? I'm saying this for the listeners. These are taxes, these are the funds that Serbian citizens give to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The guarantees of the Republic of Serbia are costing a loan to the Directorate as an entrepreneur, another way the Directorate appears as unfair competition for construction firms. Given the advantage it has under this and the previous law, it turns out not to be competitive, but that nearly 200 – 300 euros is not competitive at the cost of squares of the apartment at the site, unfortunately. What happens if the construction directors pay off the loan, or if, God forbid, the work with this building turns out to be inconclusive? How will the Republic charge what is guaranteed to be paid? The particular question is what is the construction directorate d.o.o.? Under the State Administration Act, Article 29, this shouldn't stand. That's why I'm saying we'll probably file an initiative to the Constitutional Court. That Article 29. The law on state administration says that the types of bodies are: administrations, inspectorates and directorates. According to Article 2(2), the management is educated for the executive and related inspection and professional affairs, the inspectorate for inspection and related professional affairs, and the Directorate for Professional and Related Executive Affairs, which, as a rule, refers to the economy. Therefore, the use of the title – directorship and connection of the Directorate with d.o.o., is contrary to the Law on State Administration and brings the whole public, and me, too, into error regarding such provisions of the law and such terms and names as you use. The use of the term "economic societies" does not allow for the Business Society Act either. In this argument, I shall state Article 27 which speaks of restrictions on the business name, which is that the company's business name cannot be so that 1st insults public morality, 2nd can lead to delusions regarding the legal form of society. The construction directorates of the Republic of Serbia d.o.o. cause delusions about the name of society. Once again, it is in conflict with Article 29, which states what kinds of authorities are and lists their competences, how they are educated and what they are competent for. In this sector, which you're not in charge of right now, but you're coming from a high-building area, where we really have big problems. I respect what you said and what Mr. Ilic said, that in the low building is a completely different situation, but this is not the topic of today's agenda. You must agree that there are no "Uzice Roads" in Serbia, part of Vojvodina Roads, to think about how you would do these big jobs on behalf of the government, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, and how we will welcome the upcoming winter season with construction firms dealing with low-building and road maintenance, which are either bankrupt or have problems in their liquidity. The problem Mr. Velimir Ilic pointed out, which is who will provide these funds, is the government so sure of itself that it stands behind what your ministry owes to construction firms? My knowledge is that there's quite a sum of "the Alps" for the bridge on Beshki. I'm not sure you can channel the funds except for that southern leg, Dimitrovgrad and that story about that part of the highway. Mr. Secretary, I must commend the video of your ministry that I accidentally saw on TV. When I see that sport, I really doubt if I and all the other citizens live in the Republic of Serbia. It's so well done, I'm just wondering who's gonna connect all those works that have been done on certain parts. We know you had limited resources, but it's necessary that what you did connect and finish this story. I hope that the government will also have an understanding and will channel the funds, but this rebalancing which is within this agenda really did not show. I think there will be many more problems, and it will question further functioning of construction firms, given the highest share of the funds owed to them by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I said in the beginning that in the second part of the joint principle and uniform search, I would discuss the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Risk Insurance Project in the case of elemental disasters for South-Eastern Europe and the Caucasus) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At the very least, the proposal is truly amazing, strange, almost impossible to implement and acts as some possibility of trying private malfeasance or masculine or is the result of total ignorance, which I completely doubt. Given the capacity it can't be attached to this second one, but this is the first thing that's possible. What is the essence of this Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Risk Insurance Project in the case of elemental disasters for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus)? The credit provides money for the payment of the membership fee. Let's just say it's a membership fee. I couldn't help but understand the bill. In the resecuritisation company of natural disasters, established in accordance with the laws of the Swiss Federation. It is a JUROPRI company, with a view to ensuring the reassurance of the risks of natural disasters to countries whose members they are. You can't see in the provisions anywhere in the text that a membership fee takes action, so to speak. Members of the firm, which would result in the Republic of Serbia becoming a shareholder in this company and this insurance company. Nowhere in the text proposal does it appear that the company was founded or stands for its founder. What would be an alphabet related to the functioning of all companies, including these insurance companies, in the part of the text that this bill puts out is really unspeakable. I can simply conclude that the founders of this company are the state that participate in this so-called. the risk insurance project for the case of natural disasters for South-Eastern Europe and the Caucasus. On what grounds do I conclude? I conclude on the basis of the government's argument that the first phase of the project envisions Albania, Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia, Georgia and BiH's participation, and is then said in an explanation that member states become the owners of the company, Europrim, and provide a minimum of required capital. That's all that's not visible from the bill, but what's visible from the reasoning and based on the conclusions that I've come to. When it comes to activity, it is said that all new types of insurance supported by the company, sellers with the intermediation of local private insurance companies and their agents. The most important users of the regional Pula for insurance of the mentioned company "Juroprim" are then said to be homeowners, farmers, businesses, government organisations, agencies that will be able to buy, reliable secured risk coverage in the event of elemental accidents or contracts on parametric risk insurance of weather accidents at competitive prices. Direct customers also include insurance companies that will be able to expand and develop their business in the area of insurance. It is then said that the member states will own the company Europrim and provide a minimum required capital. The company will be privatised within five years of its establishment. It will help reduce government's own potential fiscal obligations in the event of natural disasters and will mitigate the negative impact of elemental disasters on fiscal stability and economic growth. The programme will also allow better treatment of government aid after accidents aimed at those most needed, and freeing additional budgets that would otherwise be hired to help those who can afford insurance payments. Why did I read this from the bill? Because in Serbia, we have examples of 10 years of certain natural disasters and the causes that have caused neither the state nor the Republic of Serbia nor the Government, as the Mionica case was mentioned the other day, are yet to be solved. Unfortunately, some basic disasters and consequences last in Serbia for over 10 years and from that aspect of solving this problem then you can understand that this is a work and a good bill and that Serbia should take place in such a project. It is then said that the government could use the company to ensure something of its own property and social obligations from natural disasters during the implementation of this programme. Regarding finance, what is important is that the membership fee is returned in full plus interest after the privatisation of the company, and it is conceived under the bill within five years of its founding. The repayment plan states that the loan is seven years old, i.e. it returns in July 2018. From all of this you can see very strange, incredible variations. First, it starts with who are the participants of this agreement, not least, not insulting, but countries with a rating of Serbia and less than it, a very amazing thing about who are the participants of this project. Also, there's nothing relevant about an interstate contract to set up a company. If these countries are listed in this bill, participants of this project, i.e. create a new company, an interstate contract should be signed between them. You can't see that through this bill. It is likely that, given the situation, the ratification of the contract on these issues will have to be subsequently carried out. It says that under the bill, such a contract does not exist, and it would be extremely necessary for this company to be created and this project to function. Why does this look like some kind of private cat? It seems that someone is placing a security detail with the support of the state that after a few years, and in this case for five years, someone, this whole story, would privatise the project and become the owner of a firm in Switzerland. The government probably knows who it's about. What will the Republic of Serbia get from privatising this company? He'll get what's called. A membership fee or that founding stake that should be called that with interest for a period of five years. This story doesn't exactly add up, because if someone sells the company then the question is the value of the stock on the market right now. It can be zero to a very large fortune in a moment, and because of that, it depends on the moment of value of the company's stock on the market. That's why this interest and profit literally don't have to exist, and it says in the bill. Insurance in Serbia can also be carried out by domestic companies that have everything the bill states, meaning they have insurance from natural disasters, rinks. To me, this story resembles the suspicion of the transfer of anti-building protection to the Ministry of the Interior and the situation that in the previous period we had 15,000 rockets and the previous year 3,000 missiles, in fact several missiles across the anti-urban station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61818	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61819	It's a shame you brought these four laws together. If you've already connected, then these two could have been in charge of one debate, and these two could have been in charge of the guarantee under the second debate. But you're in a hurry to Europe, so come on. You and 16 dots knew how to put in a debate. What is characteristic of these laws? What started in November 2000 continues, the absolutely uncontrollable borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. I must say - and the unjust borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. The other day, the great anniversary of the burning of the National Assembly, or this building, was called October 5th, and you could not even get together to celebrate that date. You see, that date is significant because Serbia has gone against itself. Your friends from abroad and these analysts who have been following you say over 60 billion euros have entered the country for the past 11, 12 years. Where's the money? You've sold everything there is that can move. Where's the money? And you owe the state, not only the state, but everything that walks the territory of the Republic of Serbia, meaning state, public debt, commercial debt, private debts, 27 billion euros. Mr. Djelic, it's you. Let's go to Europe. Why wasn't it a costume party last night, rockets, balloons? What's the matter, no? There weren't any balloons? Why Mr. Djelic? You're in charge of this money very quickly. Today, when the EU says job loss, all those who are EU citizens should lose their jobs, their pensions are reduced, they are eager to raise their salaries and pensions by 1.5%. What he said just before Hope, he said – the historic goal of the EU, so historical was no longer the goal. In Serbia, people want to live. Just before we heard what it was like to make starting positions before the election. Imagine, you are criticised for these loans, those who were in power and under these same conditions took loans if you do not believe me, look at Article 3(3) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. There's a public debt, direct, indirect, domestic, foreign, who did it? DOS, all of this, Mr. Grouchy, since these topics do not touch you, when you meet Mr. Konuzin, give him an answer to the question of whether there are Serbs. There is! Here they are in the SRS. There's Serbs, say the word, they're here. He knows who Djelic is, he knows about Chad, he knows this. A little while ago, we saw what that race looked like, who's going to touch it, who's going to show that it's more service to the EU, the fifth column. The race for the fifth column of the pro-European party project is not 20% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. People, you fight for 20% of the electoral body. Do you realize what you're doing? So what do you think of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija? Well, that's impossible for people. If Kosovo and Metohija are not part of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia does not exist, people, do you understand? So who will a normal man in Serbia vote for you more? Why didn't you even put the sprinklers in yesterday to cheer up like New Year's Eve? So what's the victory beer? Now we see what is epochal about these four laws, and these four laws are both in the budget and in the budget rebalancing, and therefore this link is Article 3(a) and (b). Let's see what the budget says. He writes a lot, however, at the World Bank, Mr. Mrkonjic, under two public enterprises and Serbian roads, rehabilitation of the highways, recovery of black spots and consulting services, it was thrown out to you, it is not rebalancing. What else did they throw out? The European Investment Bank JP "Opt Oil Trans" is building a system through the Republic of Serbia. What else was thrown out by the German development bank KMV or local self-government, the water supply program, so where's your NIP? You used to have the NIP ministry, you forgot about the NIP like you would forget about the Office of Citizens' Cooperation. No more office, no more, Gilas advanced, adventured. They must no longer have citizens with their dear president. And imagine Mr. Mrkonjic, what they wrote under a) to foreign governments, and it says Spain, under 2), the German government, the JP "The Railways of Serbia", modernization, electrification, the Pančevo-Vršac railways -- the state border. Turned out, why? Because the Foxdots don't get their property back. And here's the penalty in the rebalancing right now, it's not in the rebalancing...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61820	I have to ask you to get closer to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61821	I'm so close to the subject, Mr. Novakovic, so here's the interest rate, so it's coming out, so now I'm going to tell you how much consulting services are, how much God needs to get in his pocket, I'm going to explain everything nicely. Even the investment fell off, the government of the Republic of Poland, it's for your railroad, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61822	Please compare the dictionary of space and time in which you are located, and for the second time I warn you, that I am not now reading to you the topic of a common principled single search, if you want me to stand at your disposal, I will be very happy to read you all four points that we have united. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61823	Mr. Novakovic, these four draft laws are covered by Article 3, both the Budget Law and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law. Read the reasons for passing these laws, and you'll see that it's an organic connection to the Budget Law. Please, let me finish, I have this time and at the end of time, I want to explain to people, that Velimir Ilic is right, under rather better conditions, the state can provide, if she needs money for these purposes. And why are money taken from these institutions? Why? That Serbia cannot lift its head, fall into debt slavery, make people's lives sick in the Republic of Serbia, to weaken in defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. But to remind you immediately, turn this agenda point to the Kolubara project, so please look at what the experts of Bozidar Djelic wrote in their explanation. What does that loan need to buy? Bagger, transporter and delayer. But people have it, Ken, it has Ken, ask that daughter of yours why he can't answer here. What does Miljko Radisavljevic say? The robbery is 10.5m euros, B 92 says 135m euros, all the money you need from 80 million people, here is Miljak, at Kenneth's, at Ceran, and what you miss goes to B 92 you can also visit Dragan Gilas as the man who opened the affair, because he didn't get into it, but in 2010 how many private companies provided for himself? Of course, he doesn't buy a spa, Mr. Djelic, you're for spas, you need rehabilitation. What are we talking about? And out of that 80m-euro loan, twom euros and a one-time commission are going to consulting services, possibly 800,000 euros. Why the hell are you guys doing this? What do you think they don't know when they're in the Colubary? For the first time, they've seen the baggers you're providing, this is a pro-European buffer, these weren't high-quality baggers so far, they couldn't be pulled out of coal, you invented something to put in charge of the state? Here's a work title -- fifth column funding projects. Here's the background, Mr. Novakovic. Let's see what projects are the Deposit Insurance Agency? They get money from abroad to destroy Serbia as high as they can. In order not to be reminded by Mr. Novakovic, let me move on to direct projects of a gentleman hiding under his name, and imagine who that might be? The cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration. And our God, he has eight donor projects from abroad, where the fifth column is funded. That's what makes Serbia worse. And that's that plumber around the National Assembly here. They are coming, seminars are opening, going, considering, the EU has no alternative, the Brussels administration has no alternative, it must be repainted in Serbia as well, and in Serbia there should be one 275,000 civil servants and in the economy, and 15 of them too, in order to be a state. Let's talk about these apartments. The epochal discovery of Mr Oliver Dulic. An expert invented by Sonja Licht, elected president of the National Assembly, you know what he did first, changed the pellir supplier in the National Assembly, introduced some of his friends and a little, little bit of an affair, conflict of interest, etc. And now the real state of the cheapest apartments, woe to the one who buys that apartment and will experience it. Well, here's what happened to 2,730 plus 686 apartments, that's what you of DS did, here you are, opening a big affair in the City of Belgrade on December 15, 2000. You know, who you opened the affair against? Against Vuk Draskovic. Did you solve this affair? You didn't solve this affair. You want to solve it? You won't. It can't be solved because you're pro-European. Pro-European eyes take out only during the election campaign, how who will make the best strategic position for the expected pre-accession funds, and 35% go consulting services, these services are filled with pockets, a special caste is forming in Serbia, and you think no one can see it anymore. Well, everybody sees it. Mr. Djelic, go see this friend of yours DeJere and give him, say, this item. Dusan Obrenovic of Nis in front of the Supreme Court in Belgrade, the case bears a 2010 number. However, the case has been filed since 18 October 1971, a 40-year court dispute. Your reformed judiciary and now they're pushing you to have the judiciary under absolute control of the EU, they don't trust you, they're stalking you, they know exactly how much money they gave you, and they know exactly what money you did, what business you didn't finish. You didn't finish that job, but it's a dirty job. It's a job against Serbia. That's what you do. Framework agreements, what framework agreements, which you're talking about, about borrowing a state that won't be able to lift its head, and you're being criticised by your colleagues from previous governments who in these same banks, under the same conditions, have put the state in charge of other things. It's an easy position for us, we've criticised both of us, regardless of your aggregate condition and regardless of this future situation with these citizens, you can contact between 8.30 and 9.30 then I'm talking to the citizens, and you think people don't see it. Eighty percent of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not want to hear about you. Whoever comes from the position of the pro-European party, pro-NATO party, don't go to people's elections, you won't do anything, you'll have nothing but unpleasantness. Can we secure these funds for what you wrote was necessary? We can. How? Just two days bring Miskovic, Bek, Peconia, those brothers as they were called, so there are 17 of them, Todorovic knows them, and invite that one of yours, Gutu Radosavljevic, to say what is the line, how much do they owe? As possible, you charge hairdressers, you rigorously close hair salons because of taxes and contributions, and what Miskovic opens the door for you. Well, he's secretly meeting Dinkic and Tadic at some locations. Over here, allegedly in a big dispute, and secretly meeting, agreeing on what they're agreeing on? To whom does the European Way of Serbia correspond? Criminals, who became great gentlemen, did not know when Darko Saric celebrated the fourth billion euros he earned, so yours were at the celebration of the fourth billion. (President: Third time, please. The fourth time I've told you these are unfavourable loans, these are suicide loans. See Article 3(v) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. Look at the manual, the maturity and the conditions under which these loans should be returned, and you put your finger on your forehead and think about whether this country, whether the economy, whether the country's economy can secure a normal life and service interest, not capital, just interest, can't. How much in the rebalancing you have invented new items for "Fiat", where it is fortunate that all the incentives for the opening of jobs in the industry have gone as an incentive to agriculture, three times more benefits would be for the Republic of Serbia, and like this, Rekovac has given you money, the factory is not working. The JUMKA problem from 10 years ago, where your strategic partner escaped, that policy to get Serbia out of trouble, is an impossible mission. This is where the desire and the will for what is said in the people "are in and in their loins", this is not where the work is promoted. There's something going on here that's much scarier, much more dangerous. And in the next elections, Serbian citizens will decide first and foremost whether Serbia should exist or not. It will be either SRS or nothing, or Serbia or nothing, no one will go with you anymore. I call on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to condemn this policy, not Serb suicides. We don't need a collective suicide. It's the last time we raise our voice, we don't need this kind of borrowing. Since this kind of borrowing, our children will have no perspective. This space will have no perspective. That's what you should think about, not polls, percentages of what some DeGer says, what some Max says, what does a Phil say, a mignon in mushrooms. Who are you people talking to, what are you talking about? You want to give KIM quietly, you've opened the Vojvodina, the Rusk, and the Young One's going to be in the interior of this six region, all with an answer we can't, that's some reality. What kind of reality is that? To hang out with a pathological killer, so the pathological killer is a killer. Whether it kills you doesn't depend on whether they're in good or bad relations with them, he's a pathological killer, and you're dictated by those who mutilated this people and this state. You are dictated by those who have killed children, who take away our kiM, who rob us of our perspective, the shame that you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61824	The word is made by Minister Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61825	I thank the chair, as always, the honor of participating in discussions in this House, it is my duty and duty, of course, it is difficult to separate emotion from what is work, four points are on the agenda, there have been a lot of stories about some other things, and it is my duty as a man who performs here on behalf of the Government to say a few things, to respond to some opinions of distinguished comrades and gentlemen, from Mr Krasic, Roganovic, Ilic, Đurić, and at the end of Obradovic. Of course, I won't comment on Mrs. Hope Kolundji, because she's not here. So, one, the government is absolutely unique, Mr. Krasic, to you, to answer what is now being discussed here. I'll try two sentences to convince you of that. So, it is a construction operation in a difficult position, it is that loans are relatively expensive, but it is also, and in the end line team that has now come here to help me know it better than I do from the Ministry of Finance, he knows that we are still not a debt-indebted country and as a man here I hope the oldest in the O.R., as a man who's been doing these projects for years for every good project loan is not expensive. In traffic infrastructure and in construction, no credit is expensive. And once again that should be said by my colleague Vuk Jeremic, who I talked to last night, of course we'll go to the Chinese, but also time has to pass to settle some things and I see that you know more than I do about what's been discussed in China. Of course, they would take more favourable loans, if possible, but other than the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the World Bank do not have the most favourable loans, there are no favourable loans. Once again, I say in infrastructure construction these loans are absolutely profitable, and again on the famous Corridor 10, they'll be returning the money in 10 years, invested one billion and two hundred years from now, they'll be back 10 years from now, and I hope I live there and you'll see the results. So, I agree that in every project we invest in, for each project we have to have a calculation of what this project returns and when it comes back. Those on the agenda today, they're all coming back. I don't want to comment individually, because you know as well as I do. As far as housing loans are concerned, there are 150,000 apartments missing from Serbia today. Of course, we need to bring the price down to the real price, as much as our citizens can pay, we know that well. Belgrade lacks 100,000 apartments. Stepa Stepanovic, alone, absolutely can't cover all that. As far as low construction is concerned, let's say right now that there's no dilemma about it anymore. No problem with the butter business in construction. Someone here said, I think it was Mr. Djuric, because I appreciate his discussion very much, to remind him, not a single dinar today is due to the travellers. There are other problems. There is a problem that we are a wild privatisation and now I am taking the opportunity to remind Members – we are in capitalism today, to add, to the liberal. In socialism we were with Slobodan Milosevic, today he is gone, because capitalism has its own laws and we are also a country in transition. So, no transitions or privatisations are easy, they're painful everywhere, more or less. We fight as hard as we can and this government is absolutely unique at it. Okay, he tried to fight me with my colleagues, no speech. I accept every word of praise, but I accept every word of criticism even more if it's justified. I don't accept argumentated criticism. So, the government absolutely knows what it's doing and these loans absolutely don't disturb the concept that we're not an over-indebted country. I'm talking about all four loans. As for what Mr. Obradovic was talking about, of course it is the primary imperative of the government to work our businesses and to employ our people. I'm reminded of who knows which way, not just here in the Assembly, but I've talked about it a few times, in my opinion, only development projects hire new people. Those people who work in production we also have to hire, we can't fire them. So, development projects, they're corridors, they're construction industries, they're building apartments, etc. They're development projects, they hire new ones. No one else can explain it or explain it. Let him do it differently. We can't fire a hundred workers now, and then open up a factory and hire new tables there. It's not a solution. We must, and I have often been criticised, even as a minister, although I have not received any workers in my ministry, I have been against firing workers, firing people who work. Every man in this country is important to me. Therefore, the government's duty is to hire our citizens and we do it. Of course, our companies that we're trying to train, first of all in construction, are easier in high construction, and that's where I agree, they just need a job and in the construction industry, it's harder in travel. We're trying to train them to go to tenders with foreign companies. It's a pain in the ass. That's what we're doing right now. So I think I'm one of the most regular members in the government, I haven't missed a single session of the government. I would never agree that the other thing is what I'm saying right now. So these four loans you're talking about, guarantees or contracts, are absolutely in the spirit of what the government thinks it should do, and I don't question the credibility of these projects for one moment. Once again, as far as relations with China are concerned, you've almost all talked about it, of course we'd take tomorrow if possible, probably the first loans will be given, or the first participation of the Chinese on energy plants, thermal power plants, etc., that I'm not getting into it now, but we've already got a Kostolac, but that takes time. There are some things we need to work out today, and if we want to, then we need to give this government some support to get this job done. I didn't know the election was under way. I know you're kidding, no election campaign, at least as far as my ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia are concerned. Before this meeting, I spoke to Mr. Ilic in the hallway on the subject. I don't know what an election campaign is. The government of the Republic of Serbia does so, if I am mistaken, correct me, as if the government would be re-elected. I don't do any of the projects we're doing to make an image of myself. All the projects we're doing right now, I absolutely think the next government will continue. That's the point. The Continuity is done by the Government, and the Assembly, in my opinion, needs to verify and greet. Of course, there may be missed projects, but it's no big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61826	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic wants to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61827	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, a member of 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the presentation of Mr Krasic's MP in 20 minutes 47 times. I listened carefully and counted carefully. I must indeed point out that the injured member of the Rules of Procedure who says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. More than once, heavy insults have been made to the ruling majority by Mr Krasic where, among other things, he called us the fifth column. I understand that someone may be projecting what they dream of at night and that someone who has a restless conscience for selling KIM when he was in power, when he was a minister, has the right to project it now in various ways, but the reminders of the work and the truth works, the NATO Pact entered KIM in 1999, when the speaker was a minister and the minister was changing the Pecko Patriarchy and the High Decana for apartments of several hundred squares. When Serbian homes were turned into fireplaces, he moved into a new hearth. I understand that he is now troubled by his restless conscience, but I am asking now all those who call us the fifth column – did the Patriarch's grandfather leave you, did the boy's father leave you, whether it's your grandfather's, whether it's your father's father's father's father's father's father's father's father, whether it's your father's father's father's father's father's father's father, whether it's your father's father's father's so you treat her like that, you, you people with two morals, one have... (President: Please do not address directly and point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I have done. Thus, those who participated in the most immoral behavior when they exercised power today have the least right to say to someone that it is the fifth column. When it comes to kim, they should just lower their heads and talk -- sorry, Serbian citizens, sorry, sorry, sorry, we'll never deal with politics again because we ruined this country so that in a hundred years it won't recover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61828	No breach of article 107. Please don't throw it away, Mr. Zivanovic. There's a breach in Article 103. Please don't abuse your right to a word when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would be very happy to give a word to everyone, but there is some obligation on my part, and this is embedded in Section 7, so I am asking and warning all MPs that because of the violations of the Rules of Procedure they are paying attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which are advertised and the procedure which the Rules of Procedure allow for each MP and encourages them to have an opinion, and the question of the argument is a very different question. The replica was first reported by Mr Krasic and then by Mr Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61829	Mr. Mrkonjic is gone. When you see him, tell him, Mr. Djelic, he's not well-informed enough. The Supreme Casation Court building is not yet paid for by the builders, and we still don't know who owns the Aval Tower. You transferred the bunny to be the director of the Energy Project. You know, you can't have passwords responding to what the arguments are. You have to take care of it. How is it possible that these are the most favourable loans? The most favourable loan comes from the Commercial Bank? Well, how can the Commercial Bank or any business bank use that term to give a more favourable loan than any international association that deals with this business? What are you guys talking about? Do you think that's how they can patch up these lunches? I don't mind, answer as you answer, but you're doing a lot of damage. Second, Mr. Novakovic, to relieve you of some burdens, do you know what my life principle is? What I don't catch in my hands, I don't even put in my mouth, so these hikers without a mountaineer's permission to keep climbing, let them go, don't defend me from them. The WikiLeaks explained everything nicely. Mrkonjic's story - he'd take it from me from the Chinese, but we can't. Well, he can't, WikiLeaks said Gilas told the US Embassy that never the Chinese and the Russians would pay a loan here while he's in Belgrade. It was supported by his president, Tadic. So tell me now that Americans lie in their dumplings. You can't say. What Barak Obama said last week – I'm making a regulation to prevent it from leaking our confidential data.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61830	Time. Mr. Beard, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61831	I'm sorry that Mrkonjic's colleagues aren't here right now, but I'm asking Mr. Djelic to pass it on to him. Of all the words Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has spoken these last three years since the minister, these few tapes he cut are projects that began long ago, but I can only agree with him deeply. All of his projects will continue the next government because he has not completed a single project and unfortunately, as many other problems, remain for the governments that are coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61832	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted by the MPs: LDP, DSS and the SRS. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Mrs. Judith Popovic, vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61833	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable representatives of the promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, these credit agreements, as well as guarantees, do not in themselves pose a problem. It's perfectly natural that we're going to support every loan that's aimed at speeding up the construction industry, but I would like to underline one fact that, let's say, the construction activity in the first quarter of this year has been reduced by almost 6%. We don't mind building apartments for socially endangered persons. However, I would remind you that it is a business worth 32m euros, and it would be good if a really transparent job performer were actually treated, as well as one who is in charge of controlling the spending of these funds, in which way these funds are being spent, so that we would not come to the situation that in a very short time we are again a guarantee state for some credit that will have to complement the previous budget for that purpose. We have no objection to ensuring the consequences of natural disasters. However, I would remind you of the way essential disasters are being resolved in Serbia. Let's say, this June of the month, the Moravia County suffered a great storm. This great storm caused damage worth at least 604 million dinars. The damage is to residential, economic facilities, agricultural cultures, local and untegorized roads. That's one huge damage to that county, as well as to the Luciane municipality. How did the government treat such high damage to those citizens who suffered damage living in the district? By repairing the damage worth four million dinars. That's the damage the government has defined to make up for. We don't mind even improving functioning and improving the functioning of the electricity industry, but shouldn't we talk a little bit about how public enterprises function, how untransparent their business is? You've had enough of what's going on in the Colubara. These are loans and these are guarantees that over 100m euros increase Serbia's public debt. It would point out once again that we have no objection to supporting all those real credit loans aimed at some business activity and improving business in Serbia. We primarily support it for this reason because we consider it necessary for this country to grow, rather than for the economic downturn, or for the reduction of economic activity. Last year, the government projected a 3% economic growth. And we were saying that it was too much, that it was too optimistic expectations that proved true. Now we've met here at 2%. And that wouldn't be such a big problem if the revenues of this budget hadn't dropped drastically. And when we talk about these loans and guarantees, we can't help but look at them in relation to the budget rebalance we talked about two days ago. If we put into the context of this new loan and new guarantees with that rebalancing, then we can see one serious negative trend. So 19 billion dinars are reduced budget revenues, and over three billion dinars are increased expenditures. What does that mean? This means that this government has continued its economic policy for three years, which actually pushes the budget deficit, which really delays from month to month, year to year any reform that would lead to the strengthening of the economy, which would lead to an improvement in the business climate in the country, in which we would attract much more investment and with which investments we could drastically change that picture of budget revenues that are, I can tell you, six times smaller than anticipated. So Serbia is increasing public debt with these loans and guarantees. And that public debt wouldn't be such a big problem if it wasn't approaching that line, that line, that magic number of 45. It's actually 45% of the GDP, which legally represents the possibility of public debt. If we cross that magic number, that magic line, in which case we can talk about big problems, we can talk about bankruptcy. So the government remained on the line to avoid public sector reform, not to take into account the fact that 12 places have made its position worse on Forbes's list of countries with the best conditions for business, and that we are the worst-placed state regarding the same Forbes list in the environment, among other countries in the region. The state of debt of this country is now at 13 billion and 700 million, which is almost 14 billion. Of which, direct liabilities are over 11 billion and guarantees two billion. It's a large percentage and it's a large amount of internal debt, which is inadmissible, given that internal debt is most often blamed precisely by a state that has proved to be a very bad payer and a very bad debtor. If we compare these large expenditures and reduce income inflows, the question is inexplicably raised – why, on the one hand, is the budget rebalancing increased the volume of funds for individual users, and for the other, the volume is reduced? For example, there has been an increase in funds for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the MUP, the VOA; the BIA, the Anti-doping Agency, the administrative districts. On the other hand, the DRI, the Fiscal Council, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities, the Republic Geodetic Institute, capital investments are drastically reduced, subsidies for agriculture, as well as funds for the Republic of Geodetic Institute. When these two columns are compared, then the question arises -- to what extent are these loans and these guarantees positive for Serbian citizens, because on the one hand, the cost part of the budget continues to be forced. There's far more to pay and pension. On the other hand, it is taken away from the part that could speed up economic growth and that will tomorrow provide both those salaries and those pensions. One inadmissible mistake is being made, which actually cuts the branch on which it sits. If you cut eight billion dinars of capital investment, and also raise seven billion dinars for pensions, pensions will increase by 1.4%, which is a small percentage for increasing and improving the existence of all pensioners. What did you actually do? You've done one demagogue thing, you've raised your pensions, and you've done enormous damage by reducing capital investment, which normally, if that money is spent on capital investments, will provide a far better business climate than the one currently in Serbia, and how devastating it is for Serbia's economic position. In addition to recognising agriculture as one strategic branch of production, subsidies to agriculture have also been reduced. I don't know how you expect that branch, industrial, agricultural or whatever you call it, to continue to develop if you're making it impossible for it to reduce subsidies? Moreover, when I mention subsidies, railway subsidies remain intact. Finally, just to put into one correlation a strange solution from the budget rebalancing, and with this guarantee between the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which amounts to $5m, it is expected to buy a business building for the Anti-Corruption Agency, perhaps bought, worth 4.5m euros. If, in order to eliminate the consequences of the natural disasters, we allocate five million dollars and we consider that enough, and that is, in fact, the way in which the consequences of the elementary disasters are actually solved, in this way, we allocate such large resources to the business space of an agency that is primarily described in business to fight corruption, among other things, to combat unnecessary spending of state resources, it allows such a kind of luxury of a 4.5m-euro business facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61834	Thank you. It's about information, it's about a risk insurance project from a case of elemental accidents. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61835	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a joint debate on four draft laws and ratification of the Treaty on New Delegations of the Republic of Serbia towards, according to commercial loans, which according to foreign banks and organisations. This is a continuation of the story of the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, which will soon reach a six-billion-euro figure for the previous three years with this latest borrowing today. It is simply not usual for governments of certain countries to resort to the principle of their country's debt when they want to go into certain realisations of infrastructure projects that will bring it some new value or improve the quality of the infrastructure, but it is likely very seriously taken into account when such things are done to make quality analyses and visas, whether certain loans are profitable, to what extent and in what time period, and whether the right time for borrowing for individual loans is the most favourable. We believe that the country's inappropriate borrowing has been done in the previous three years, and unfortunately not as shown by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for infrastructure projects, but these loans and loans that the state made over the past three years have gone public and inadequately borrowing the country to meet the needs of public spending, the needs of authorities and certain ministries. This is confirmed and said by many economic analysts who raised data that Serbia has increased by five, seven billion euros since July 2008 to today, that our external debt has increased from 8.7 billion euros to more than 14 billion euros and that the debt has increased from 29.2% to the whole 42% at the end of 2010, and with the broadcasting of new billion euros in government bonds and these today's borrowings, it is likely that the foreign debt rate in GDP will exceed 45%, which is the upper limit that is eligible for one country's borrowing. This would not be a big deal if this borrowing did not go to public consumption, wages and pensions and to the patching of holes in public enterprises that were compensated for wages and inappropriate public spending and the losses that these public enterprises have made. Public debt structure from 2008 to today has been completely changed. The public debt at the time mainly referred to old foreign exchange savings and debt to earlier loans. The current public debt has been completely changed and the money is mostly spent on current budget spending, wages and pensions, buying goods and services, subsidies that have gone completely non-refundable without any new value. In the previous year alone, Serbia took over a billion euros in credit, mainly from commercial banks, domestic commercial banks to support the budget. It is understandable that such steps must sometimes be resorted to, but only in cases where necessary, provided that both the Government and the public sector themselves resort to drastic austerity measures. Did we as a state in the last three years show, did the government show that it wanted to save in any way within its consumption? No, we didn't, we increased that public spending. The government has increased the number of state administration employees by over 2,000 people over the last two years. Remember last adoption of the December 2010, when the budget envisioned a new 700 people in the state sector, a new 150 people in the public company "The Railway of Serbia", etc. Is this the principle that one responsible government should be managed in times of economic crisis, when revenues are smaller and when it is obvious that the economy cannot withstand this expensive state, this much public spending? All these questions, all these challenges, what's your answer? Your answer is – no, we don't have enough money for this kind of public spending, we don't have enough money and we don't want to make cuts in the structure of the state administration, we have huge pensions and other needs of budget users, but since we don't have enough money, we're not going to do anything on our own savings plan, we're going to go to new loans. We're gonna take new loans, settle all our incredibly big needs, not cut our comforts by iota, and it doesn't matter who gets those loans back tomorrow. According to some of his earlier statements, the total investment for Serbian infrastructure, counting both rail and road, to end Corridor 10 and to travel through Serbia at a speed of 150km per hour by train, takes about seven billion euros. In these three years, the state has committed itself, i.e. the government has charged us for these three years for more than six billion euros. With these funds, Serbia would almost end today a complete Corridor 10 road and complete reconstruction of Corridor 10 railways, which is significantly more expensive than road. What's the status on the ground? Desperate. We don't have a single meter of highway from the Macedonian border to Bujanovac, to Presevo, in fact 40km long, which was built three years ago and released into traffic. 15 days ago, I went that way to Greece, not a single meter of highways were released in traffic, nor was it completed, and so many stories of massive investment in Corridor 10, in highways, of billions that would advance our infrastructure. What's reality in the field? A few kilometers on the north side of Vojvodina and some work running at the speed of a snail on a bypass around Dimitrovgrad and towards Piroth. Stories that Serbia will get quality infrastructure by holding elections in 2011, ending Corridor 10, are stories for small children, none of which is. You spent all your money on too much uncontrollable public spending. Not one step, not a single gesture has the government tried to make savings within itself, on the contrary, the administration has been increased, the costs increased and all of it indefinitely, of course, without any justification. By signing the SAA, the country loses over 300m euros annually. It is not a problem for you either, it is only important for you to get the status of candidates on paper, which means nothing and which clearly shows yesterday's official advertising by the European Commission, that Serbia can be an EU candidate and start negotiations only when it allows the neighbouring state of Kosovo to be fully recognised by Serbia, which is a clear indicator of your irresponsible policy, that the EU has no alternative and that Serbia must pay, not only materially, but also a territorial price for possible EU entry. Turkey has been a candidate for over 25 years and who knows when it will be given a date for negotiations. Probably never, neither does Serbia. The price is high borrowings and is something that is the biggest irresponsibility in Serbia, excessive borrowing and leaving huge debts to future generations. We, of course, will not support these borrowings, because borrowings are done when they are necessary and when they are justified. This is about commercial loans that the Building Directorate will take to make, to repay debts for a built social housing infrastructure that will cost 1,300 euros per square metre. Tell me, what kind of social category is that when you pay 1,300 euros per square metre? I guess social housing and the construction of social housing by the state agency of the Civilian Directorate of Serbia implies that non-profit apartments are made, that they are not earned. I would very much like to see that cost analysis made by Serbia's Building Directorate for the creation of social housing costing 1,300 euros per square cent. Who's gonna buy you that? Well, there are cheaper apartments on the market. From commercial companies you will get cheaper apartments than you get with subsidies from the state, with all possible subsidies from the state. That's just saying it's a big corruption in this public sector. Never should have been in a state like that. It can encourage a variety of tax cuts in Serbia for social purposes, but that the ministries enter commercial loans and build apartments, it is absolutely unacceptable and inappropriate to one normal state. We will not support, of course, laws like this, because they continue to deepen the gap and increase Serbia's external debt and the DSS cannot be so irresponsible as to cooperate in this irresponsible behaviour and continue to bury Serbia in credit debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61836	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61837	Ladies and gentlemen, Vice President, these are new laws, but it is essentially laws that continue to be in charge of the Republic of Serbia. We're basically against it and that's one of the basic reasons. Of course, we are against these laws because these laws, like the other laws we have been considering in this House for several years, primarily from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, are conditioned and simply harmful, not only because of an increase in debt, but also because of an increase in unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. You must know that one of the conditions is so-called. EU bid and application of European law have been the adoption of the Public Procurement Act in 2008. We have read, of course, although we do not fully agree with the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU, not only for KIM, but also for economic reasons, we have carefully studied the European Commission's report and we see that public procurement is being talked about every year, about how this prevents corruption and that it is almost 10% of GDP. On the other hand, precisely because of the pressure of these banks, which is mentioned in these four contracts, was brought, and you know it, Vice President, in 2009, a sublegal act that completely puts out of force the Public Procurement Act and prescribes a list of banks, i.e. the trustee of the foreign parties who can put the Public Procurement Act out of force on their terms and conditions and their statutes. Who are they that are above the law of the Republic of Serbia? These are the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the World Bank and the Bank of the Council of Europe. In this context, these four laws on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia for about 140m euros, which you will admit is more than a large figure for our people in this situation, for our citizens who are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is only enough to analyse this agreement with the Council of Europe and you will see that it is scandalous, that it is harmful and that, simply from a legal point of view, from an economic point of view, it brings nothing good to the Republic of Serbia. Because it is easy to see that foreign consultants, as well as in this contract with the EU, will be paid for "their visits", or perhaps we can say tourist visits, for example. Colubari, money from the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's scandalous, and that practice should stop. We simply do not see why such a poor country that is in transition, such as the Republic of Serbia, would pay experts whose salaries and everything else will be prescribed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Council of Europe Bank and the World Bank. So the three banks mentioned in these contracts we're considering today. Also, it's more than scandalous that in a contract with the Commercial Bank which is unfortunately, we are against the sale of the Commercial Bank, the only real serious domestic bank, you have a currency clause. It's a scandal. Is the Commercial Bank a foreign bank? Is it predetermined to sell, for example? The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as it is said, or is it a Serbian bank? We think it's an act of mistrust in a dinar. I don't see any reason why a Serbian bank has a foreign exchange clause because something like that is destroying the Serbian banking system itself. Also, you know for a fact that your colleagues in Hungary banned 2010 from a financial system clause in Hungary's banking system from a currency other than Hungary. Also, that is the case in Turkey, that is the case in other member states or EU candidates. Of course, as far as Turkey is concerned, you certainly got that so-called. The bid in 1999 and is not yet close to EU membership, which shows that the propaganda farce of yesterday is essentially a pre-election incentive to power in Serbia. Also, we believe that these 140m euros in the situation when the external debt of the Republic of Serbia reached 24 billion euros is a kind of extra noose on the neck of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In that sense, as evidence of our claim, or an argument to our claim, which is why we will not vote for these laws, I will only give you one analysis that completely ruins these four contracts that we are talking about today. You must know that the average interest on our total external debt, including public and private, is 5%. If you multiply that by 10 years of paying back that debt of 24 billion euros, provided we no longer owe ourselves what you will admit is amazing. We will return 17 billion euros in interest to external creditors within 10 years. Seventeen billion euros, almost 50% of the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, or at an annual level, is 1.7 billion euros, almost 20% of the Republic of Serbia's budget or the rebalancing budget we were considering yesterday. You will admit that it is a huge burden, that it simply cannot endure even more developed countries than we do, let alone a country under such pressure from the EU. It's the union that allegedly gave us the candidacy and the union that we're literally subsidising, their companies, their companies, through the Transition Trade Agreement which, and you know it, Vice President, is making a budget loss due to the fall in customs duties of 130m euros per year, only from customs, without VAT. So we come up with the same number as the sum of these loans we're discussing today. So our concrete proposal would be – these harmful contracts that increase unemployment in the Republic of Serbia, which will effectively help companies from Western Europe on the Serbian building market and banks from Western Europe on the Serbian financial market, are not needed, is enough just to suspend the Transition Trade Agreement and you will get almost the same figure in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which you will be able to properly schedule for the Colubarians or for the construction of the apartments that you are predicting here. Also, we are concerned and sorry that Mr. Mrkonjic is not there, that these construction facilities, in line with the 2009 sublegal act, which suspends the Public Procurement Act, will be carried out by companies from the Western part of the EU, such as the Beška Bridge, as is the case with Gazela, as is the case with the new bridge via Ade, and that our builders will be only subcontractors and that the decline of employment in this more than important sector will continue, so we will come to an absurd situation – that because of these loans that you will adopt today, and we will be against, Serbian builders will have a better chance of performing on the market, e.g. in the Russian Federation, but in its own country. This leads to a policy that the EU has no alternative in economic terms, leading to a policy priority that the EU does not have an alternative to economic reasons. I therefore believe that these four loans should certainly be rejected, that economic growth, industrial production, employment in the building industry on sound grounds, which is taking credits that are useful for infrastructure facilities, which are useful for raising production, and not for companies and consultants from Western Europe. Otherwise, if we're wrong to claim this, convince me that this sublegal act of 2009 is under the Public Procurement Act. I know you can't do this in both legal and economic terms, because Mr. Deger, who was on the Committee on European Integration today, has more power than many vice-presidents of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61838	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, the SRS believes that because of all that you have afforded the Republic of Serbia in the last three days, you deserve to lose power in the elections as a privilege for you. It started in 2008 and it gets its peak with this rebalance and these loans, but the bottom line is what happened to Serbia yesterday and what, by poisoning and lying to the public, you're trying to represent as your triumph and your success. First of all, the fact that your European partners sent a letter which, translated into Serbian, means - put away the balvanas, establish the Shiparian institutions, you will get the paper you are looking for and expect and you have been lying for 10 years. The other thing that's embarrassing and embarrassing for this country and for this home is that none of you from the government have honored to come to the Assembly yesterday. Mr. Djelic, there was another event yesterday. It happened, Mr. Djelic, in Budapest. There was a conference by the president of the Western Balkan state parliaments. There was no Republika Srpska delegation at the conference. The delegation did not leave the protest because the Republic of Serbia represented three delegations: Vojvodina delegation, Kosovo delegation and delegations from Belgrade. After all you've done to this country and this people yesterday, you really don't have any credibility anymore, if you have a conscience that any of you from the government appear before the Parliament and the public. That's why I'm saying it would be a privilege for you to lose power in the election. As for the loans we are talking about today, they really need to be commented on in the spirit of the rebalancing that you, as Government, have proposed before the ministers, or before the MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm really in a bit of a misunderstanding right now, your predecessor, you know what he said a little while ago, under the suggestions of your associates that these loans are relatively expensive, I've made good notes, they're relatively expensive. Now, you see, Mr. Djelic, none of this loan-frame interest should exceed 7%, and they're relatively expensive. For the last 20 days, you've been poisoning the public that you sold a billion dollars favorably on 7.2 or 7.3 percent of bonds. Now, what's the matter, who's lying to whom here? See how you get involved in a network of your own lies and delusions when you're dealing with something from case to case, when you don't have a consistent attitude about anything and when you don't handle the general interests. They're expensive to loans that have interest below 7%, but they're favourable bonds sold by over 7% and that's what this country in the world qualify as successful, healthy and quality. We've confirmed our loan, or I don't know what kind of rating. Why don't they sell some service for 10 years abroad? What do some of our construction operatives do in an international tender? Which doesn't sell anything like that, it sells enough companies, sells enough to the state, now you're selling territory, and it's not bad to try out for the new 130m euros. Yesterday you did a good job for your Brussels mentors. Or you'll have to bring him in by the end of December of the month. Indeed, after yesterday and the way you presented it yesterday, every political discussion in this House will taste bitterness, and one will taste in your mouth. You really don't deserve one word of tolerance and understanding when it comes to politics. You heard Mr. Djelic just now while you were chatting in the bench that these were development projects. To finance development projects from these loans. Imagine that genius word, genius statement, you refinance the loan that you paid for the construction land and you call it a development project. How can you not be ashamed anymore? This country is unable to arrange building land in a location where it will build apartments, but it is financing from credit. Yesterday, you've been trumpeting how you've been rewarded for the success and the reforms you've carried out. In the judiciary, in the privatisation process, in the realisation of infrastructure projects, in the affirmation of health care, in the affirmation of education and education, what have you reformed and improved? You've destroyed everything alive. To make it worse, you've been doing all this about the cost of the citizens, and that's the cost you're funding and you've funded them from the loan. The election will be a privilege for you. Remember, it's getting closer to you. Mr. Djelic, here I'm going to comment on something your party colleagues said, so the malts are not the part that didn't government made to idiots who don't know what the deficits are, what the loans are, what the revenues are, and what the expenditures are. Only you and the DS and the authorities have the privilege of thinking, of economic theories, of economic rules and of economic analysis. While you are here to analyze and promote these relations, in Serbia the largest number of unemployed, Serbia's lowest average wage, Serbia's largest inflation, and not to list further macroeconomic indicators. Mr. Djelic, the SRS understands the economic rule that the deficit can and should exist, but we never understood what you are funding from it, and that you have financed from it is today the macroeconomic situation in Serbia. You, Mr. Djelic, must understand that we are not against the fact that the state withdraws any credit, but we are against paying what you pay for, to spend the way you spend and to withdraw exclusively from those you apostrophe that we have to, because there are even more favourable credit lines, healthier credit lines that you neither wanted nor would you ever pull them out as long as the people give you the chance to sit there, and I believe it will be short. Not because you approach it from an economic aspect, but exclusively from a political aspect, we are the victims of your policy, our economy, our fiscal policy is the victim of your political misunderstanding. Today you are asking us to support a loan to Kolubara, 80m euros. Regardless of his political, economic, social and environmental character, we have no idea to support this. Gentlemen of power, until three days ago, you were poisoning the public with the fact that the Colabars had been stolen years ago, so you arrested a lot of people. In this congregation, they boasted that they had a directorate who had property taken from criminals. The SRS today has a very constructive proposal for you in this context, to stock, mortgage and guarantee on this loan that this directorate has the property of criminals you arrested at the Colubari. Or sell that property so you can get loaders, pluggers, diggers and anything you need for TE "Colabara". We want to be practical, and not only are ministers gardening in former vehicles, in confiscated vehicles, apartments of those criminals with whom they groped on October 5th and after October 5th, but take the nice ones you say they've taken all these years, sell them the property, stock them up, mortgage, and finance the political, economic and environmental projects necessary for the Colubara. There's a very interesting law here, it's an agreement to confirm the loan framework agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia F/P in 1720, now based on 32 million, someone made a mistake earlier, 26 million should provide Serbia. The total value of the project is 58 and 32 are withdrawn from abroad. I'm asking you, Mr. Djelic, what is the interest on this loan? They can't calculate you. Listen to what I say to you. They deceive you. That's how it's defined, this is where they write the indicative interest. What's the interest, what's the maturity of the loan, what's the interest type? That will be determined when you withdraw the tranches. No one knows how much we're gonna pay off this loan and how much interest we're really gonna pay. That's what it says here, that's what these European geniuses are. It's good, it's nothing controversial, it's state-of-the-art. It's not from our pocket. We're not saying that a loan may not even need to be withdrawn for this, but what is the work of the Assembly but to determine clearly what, how, as much as we know. You need Mr. Djelic, I said that in the budget rebalancing debate, you should be ashamed of all, two-thirds of the current spending in this country is funded by my, your and everyone's children here. Who gave you the right to deny them the opportunity to be responsible? To finance your political adventures and bahanalia? Who gave you the right to do that? How is that possible? Instead of getting better treatment and education, they're gonna pay for your loans. Your credits to which you funded agencies and nonsense all over the place. To which you funded the consulting houses. Someone mentioned it here a little while ago. I mean Kolubara. How many million will go for consulting or do I not know any favors? We don't have institutions that could do this job, so you can beat up your debts with them. Your $10 billion budget, or the euro, owes the economy. Your budget, over 10 billion. The debt of the Republic of Serbia is 10 billion dinars. We asked you in the rebalancing amendments to secure 10 billion in the budget and settle your debt to the real sector according to the rules that you will determine. We'll see if you'll be hearing and aware that you do, since you're asking all of us to settle the VAT regularly and to finance you. To finance your routes on the Brussels-Belgrade-Washington route. Just to tell us one good thing and the good that we got from all the funding we've had all these 10 years, all together. In the light of this law, Mr. Djelic, you know what it says. Check this out – a bank that lends credit among other things, its activities include helping to realise investment projects that create new jobs in vulnerable regions or create social infrastructure. This creation of new jobs at this time before the elections is somehow known. Before last you promised 200,000. You are not the truth, President, your party chief Boris Tadic. For the same period since then, so many people have lost their jobs. And we're a recordr at the unemployment rate in the environment, which you're also calling for. When you create new jobs, Serbia needs to get chilly. While you still assure us that building social housing, or social housing, will create jobs in the underdeveloped regions of the Republic of Serbia, it is indeed not to say what, not to say what. I ask you, Mr. Djelic, as Deputy Prime Minister, how long has the social housing policy since 2009 been defined by the law? You know how interested you are in social housing? In the whole process, you're only interested in two things. To lay the foundation stone in front of the cameras and possibly if the project were to be realized to share the keys in front of the cameras. These are your ambitions in social housing, and everything else between them is dead, and it hasn't moved since several municipalities and cities made the social, or housing agencies provided for by law. You don't need to hide. In Kragujevac, perhaps the best situation. The agency reached its highest level in Kragujevac, unlike Belgrade where chaos and crime are at stake. And what is the situation in Kragujevac, with the fact that they are the best there, here is my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, who can tell you, how many jobs have you opened on this basis and how many social apartments have you divided? One very simple question for you. What are the priorities in that social housing? Who will be the priority in this social housing? Be careful. We'll withdraw the loan first, and then we'll define the criteria. Well, I guess the terrain's ready, they're making criteria, they're setting everything up, and then they're withdrawing money. But what do they care? This money is withdrawing on the burden of our children. They won't return it. My contemporaries and your contemporaries won't return it. These kids are gonna come back. Let's keep that money, and let's get more praise, someone said that, leave 1.5 in the account to the next government. It is, but it is. Money secured through loans, not through real incomes or at least partially achieved through real incomes, as serious states and partners do, you're trying to be unhappy. Imagine this, 4,500 apartments will be built in one location in Belgrade. For all of Serbia, they have defined 1,700 apartments. In order for this to make sense, Mr. Djelic, to be banal, you must displace Belgrade. You need to dissipate Novi Sad. 76% of GDP is provided in what you call two regions. In the region of Belgrade and the region of Vojvodina. Who are you going to make apartments for in Babusnica, White Palanca, Surdulica, Vladica Han? Do you know what we heard before by one of the representatives of the congregation's majority? They were Nobel Prizeed by the government's success in leading economic policy. They're thrilled. And this same Nobel laureate goes on state television and says -- it's not a good thing Serbia sold billions of dollars of bonds, and the government is talking about how they're lit up. Take him to the ruling Khan to look back, take him to some Banatian village or Banatian municipality to look back. Or what he says, colleague Dusan Maric, take him to Vranje or Bujanovac to be irradiated by the uranium that your European partners have scattered around this country. You have come to convince us that Serbia should be in charge of the new 130 million, for development projects. No less for development projects. I'm going to finish this discussion with one piece of information. The municipality of Surdulica, from which I come from, made a spatial plan in 2008, Mr. Djelic. The spatial plan was designed to make the population in Surdulica by 2025 19 thousand people from chance. These days, the list ends, and by the estimates of those who do so in Surdulica will be between 18 and 19 thousand people. It's a figure that was supposed to be in Serbia in 2025. That's devastating. What you've done to the state for the last ten years means two things. That you don't detest your own country, or that you're unlimitedly incompetent. Choose what is of this, for those of us living in this country, it doesn't matter, and the consequences are the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61840	The word has been given by the People's MP, Mr. Jeremic, the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61841	Thank you. I have to admit, I've tried and failed to count how many times we've had points like today's, so borrowing, loans, guarantees so far. And when the ruling coalition nominates, what we are talking about today, so what the government is up to most recently, we will be additionally burdened, almost 140m euros. The state and economy together owe almost 24 billion euros, according to the latest data. You're crediting, therefore, taken by the current government, apparently not just paying off the kids who are currently in kindergarten, probably the ones that are still in the plan. So we're extremely fast in debt, and when we look at the indicators they rely on, and that's how much of a debt compared to GDP, it's not the only good indicator, and of course you have to have an orderly economy, local sources, primarily for export production because it brings in foreign exchanges. If there is no income from the exchange, of course you are relying solely on borrowing. And of these 24 billion euros, the total debt of the state is a third. So, there is no dilemma that Serbia is, by all indications, a highly-indebted country and there is no dispute. Export participation in debt is almost three times. Also, the annual service of external debt accounts for 40% of exports, it is known that it should not exceed a quarter. The question is, therefore, how much will be the possibility of further borrowing and payment of debts, because, of course, if the country cannot repay its obligations, foreign reserves will be spent and this will automatically mean pressure on the exchange rate. Very often you call for foreign investments, for investors of the most important, therefore, how much public debt burdens the budget, or whether the state is able to repay the loans it takes. If it isn't then, of course, it can go bankrupt and then, together with it, the banks are bankrupt as state lenders and this is one of the worst possible scenarios, and I'm afraid Serbia is moving inexorably towards it. It is inconceivable that the foreign debt at the end of last year is 23.5 billion euros, while commitments based on regular interest reached 270m euros, suggesting that the capital of 1.55 billion euros has arrived. That warning was not enough either, and Serbia continued to be in debt and the government boasts that it is withdrawing far less than possible, so now I don't know whose comfort, but apparently the IMF's goal is never to pay off the principal, but to have a debtor who regularly pays interest. So it becomes economically dependent on whoever gives you money, and economic dependence, of course, turns into political, so the trustee dictates to the debtor what to do and how to do. We in the SRS keep pointing to the public that's exactly what we're doing. I have something else to point out, the global crisis you often rely on in terms of addiction, or, if necessary, didn't come as suddenly as it appeared because Serbia had a domestic, economic and social crisis before. And what is interesting is that as early as July 2005 in the projection of economic movements in the world by 2020, Serbia was persecuted by slow economic progress with the emphasis that it would be a black hole, as Mr. Deputy Prime Minister once said, even though it would be at the economic bottom of Europe until 2020. For that year, it is also projected to join the EU, and if it even exists then at all, it says in that document, I absolutely don't believe it. So, at the same time, the authorities in Serbia know of such an analysis and say that the crisis will be useful for Serbia, I don't need to remind whose words they are, that it will help it to do so, etc. What happened? It happened completely the other way around, which is that Serbia is not only not making progress, it is turning back and it has only 40% of the 1989 production. Last year, 3.5 billion loans were to be paid back, in translation into the people's language, which means that at the end of last year, every resident was in charge of an average of 3,000 euros. With such a policy, with what we have today as a confirmation of such a policy, it is certain that Serbia's debt will continue to grow, as well as that there will be unsettled commitments created year after year. Serbia has been forced to do something like this and because of the fact that privatisation has practically ended, it has sold everything it could sell, for which nearly three billion euros have been spent not in launching production but in maintaining political oligarchy in power. Of course, it is neither moral for the state to continue to be in debt, and the money that has entered the country is obviously spent on market interventions, for spending through the budget, and the good part has ended, therefore, in the pockets of some speculators and apparently when it comes to debt service, it has taken such a position that it should be transferred to some future generations. One of those institutions, therefore, with which Serbia has very often these arrangements, is the World Bank, and it wasn't exactly as planned, and the fact is that we take more than we return, and there's some difference of $100 million. It is estimated, therefore, that in the next period of the World Bank we will have to pay back about 800 million dollars, and it is agreed on an eight hundred million dollar loan. And now it's not Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, he said, just before, for every good project credit is not expensive. Now imagine the absurdity that the head of the office mentioned earlier on behalf of the World Bank, says Serbia is slow to use the funds approved by the international institution and currently uses only a quarter of what is available. And if we compare with other countries in Europe and Central Asia, in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, one of the lowest levels of use available. So 850 million dollars for projects the government said were important, and the entire $620 million is still untapped. How do we explain that now? Furthermore, I was saying that when it comes to borrowing that the position of the SRS is such that the funds should be directed towards infrastructure projects, to restructure market-perspective enterprises, reforming public finances, which would, of course, attract foreign investment in the coming years. If this is not done, obviously there is neither political will nor desire, it is clear that Serbia will be in an even lower position than before the economic crisis comes along with the fact that the price of leaving such a situation will then be incomparably higher for both the economy and the population. And to recap, the SRS believes that the RS government obviously has unresolved problems and major delusions in economic policy, the growth of Serbia's GDP is only one illusion based primarily on private consumption and borrowing that encourages and finances this consumption. The fact that the state is in debt directly by taking foreign exchange loans or by broadcasting dinar securities from value is almost all the same, because the state's motive is perfectly clear, which is, therefore, necessary to prevent one financial collapse or breakdown, to preserve social peace at all costs and then try to continue with this policy in the coming period. I am afraid in the end, that if something like this continues, if something really radical doesn't change that the future will not even be subject to what is owed as Greece, but unfortunately, owes as Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61842	Eight minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, followed by MP Zoran Krasic, and he is the last registered speaker. Before I give my word to the People's MP Milorad Buhi, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that the break will be decided after a joint principled and uniform search of the proposals of the laws we are currently discussing and that after the usual break of an hour then we will continue our afternoon work, and after 18,00 hours. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61843	Ladies and gentlemen of Serbia, in the last year, we have had a total of 28 ratifications of various forms of borrowing. Here's today's four. By the end of the year, it will be still likely to be dozens of borrowings and for the SRS it is unacceptable because we are entering a high-indebted position that the government knows, but it is deliberately hiding it. What we can find on their websites clearly indicates that we are in the area when we are already entering a mild bankruptcy, and we just need another wave of economic crisis to happen and to drive us into a real bankruptcy. That these facts that I present are accurate and the data that we can find on your websites, the government, the finance ministry and some other ministries that show that the economy paid 22 billion euros to banks in the period 2001 to 2011. Citizens gave and allocated eight billion euros to banks and the state of 11 billion euros, a total of 41 billion euros was allocated to the banking system between 2001 and 2011 and these days. On the basis of interest, compensation, margins, taxis and other forms of giving, what is foreseen, we shall agree on a loan and various other forms of agreement between banks, businesses, citizens or states and citizens. These are catastrophic figures, it can't handle a far more orderly, far more developed state and this is actually talking about the real state of finance in the Republic of Serbia. In the course of this government, we had only one loan relating to the development of employment. It's a loan about three, four months ago that was ratified here, and it's about a credit line that's about to be given but it's not, unfortunately. The question has been raised whether she will be withdrawn. We have practice, and here is colleague Vladan Jeremic said relations with the World Bank and with the IMF, not to withdraw what we agree, ratify etc. For what? Because we don't have adequate programs, we don't have a way to withdraw those funds, but we're headlessly entering into a new borrowing, etc. Mr. Djelic, we expect you and we expected you to consider here and ratify and confirm contracts, industrial development loans, areas of agriculture, areas of energy, etc., not controversial certain things that are not important right now because it is important for us to start an industry, to start a business, to work normal, to function in the economy, to return everything that we have to do. Now let me tell you what our obligations are. So 41 billion euros in the last 10 years means about two billion euros annually. What's that amount? Let me just say that the decouplings of the economy are about 15% higher than gross earnings. So, if we're based on economic isolation, what's given to banks is 22 billion, so two billion and 200 a year, the gross earnings of enterprises are a billion and 850, means 15% less than the allocation. That's disastrous. That no economy can bear, and at least our economy which is highly in charge and works in difficult conditions etc. What does he expect us to do after all these borrowings? We are expected to see what we can see in the provisions of budget rebalancing. We see in one item that the expenditure on the purchase of financial assets and loans is 331 billion dinars, three billion euros. Here, to compare this data, 331 billion, what are the subsidies to the economy - three billion 750, one percent of the total borrowing based on short-term borrowing. By selling charters of government value, we are in debt mostly in the short term. Do you see this relationship? How much do we help the economy and how much do we give to the banks? This will all end up in the banking system – 331 billion, if you trust this data from budget rebalancing. To get back to specific loan contracts. The first contract is a contract between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. It is important here to note that this is a bank originally established to solve the problems of refugees and displaced persons. However, it has now expanded its size of business, saying it is now providing assistance in the realisation of investment projects that create new jobs for vulnerable regions or create social infrastructure. Mr. Djelic, here's a good chance that through that basis, through these new actions that this bank is dealing with, you can withdraw your employment. Did you withdraw one loan? You didn't, but you were supposed to pull what you didn't pull back in 2007. The bank's council approved a 10m-euro loan to build 500 apartments for refugees and internally displaced persons. It's a shame this government didn't pull two million euros. Eight million euros to this day has not been withdrawn. These funds are currently in the NBS account and are not used to build 500 apartments. Why didn't you pull that off? What are those refugees doing to you? The genocide policy of the Croatian state, with co-operation with the international community, exiles have been expelled, left without anything and instead of using, when you're already taking credit, to boast – here, refugee gentlemen, we've taken a loan, we'll build 500 apartments. It's a shame what you're doing. The same fate will be with this huge loan. So you haven't withdrawn funds in five years. This is also a framework agreement and you say it will be used to build social housing. In the provisions of this Framework Agreement, we can find harmful provisions which, unfortunately, make this government almost all of the contracts that we ratify. This is a way of monitoring the realisation of loans in a certain way, of supervision of the realisation of financial resources and of this, as well as of many loans and loans drawn up by this authority, is not defined on the basis of supervision and monitoring. We know from practice that for millions of euros, as is the case with Kolubara, two million euros will be through services. What kind of favors are these? Why is that allowed? Don't we have a chance to track what we take ourselves? If the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia cannot monitor and perform the right, adequate and financial, construction and other administrative supervision, then this authority should leave. It is not because it is being monitored but to wash the funds and most of the funds that are withdrawn, unfortunately, end up in private pockets that those who negotiate, which are those who are on the other hand, or the lenders of these loans. The second law I will speak of is the law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the " Commercial Bank" of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Serbian Building Directorate. It is clearly in the provisions here that it will be a guarantee of two billion dinars. In your explanation, however, the funds of this loan will be used to finance the loan as of 9 December 2010, which has been used to equip construction land at the "Step Stepanovic" barracks in Belgrade. In Article 7(3) of the Treaty, it is prescribed that the creditor must provide a guarantee of up to two billion dinars by 31 October 2011 at the latest for all relevant interest and expenditure with the application of the currency clause. What does this look like? Two billion euros plus the corresponding interest, the cost of applying the currency clause, how much is that? Is that two billion dinars? No, it's far more. The Republic of Serbia's budget, the item, envisions giving guarantees to business banks for Serbia's building directorship of two billion. How can you write it like this in an explanation? If it's two billion, then it's two billion, I can't be anymore, I can't be margins, interest, etc. Second thing, why don't we have a contract here? Is it appropriate that we have a contract between the Commercial Bank and the Building Directorate? Why don't we have it? It's common practice, but there's no practice in you, there's no usual stuff, there's no rules you follow. The third thing, "The Commercial Bank" is mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia, "The Commercial Bank" does not trust the state body established by this state and therefore requires a guarantee. Is that appropriate, such a mistrust with the state authority that they know who works in that agency, and it is known that there are private shareholders there, there are also foreign shareholders. Those foreign shareholders are looking for a guarantee. See how far she's brought this power, that she doesn't trust herself. As far as the debt is concerned, you have successfully entrusted us, our children and our great-grandsons with it, and someone will have to bear responsibility, you fall very quickly, and those who participated in all these activities will have to bear responsibility for everything that has been done in the last ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61844	Twelve minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61845	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, in a few minutes I'd like to answer some of the questions. I think the most important question is whether these are favourable loans or not? First, let's put things in context. Since 2002 and the Law on Public Debt, Serbia has been one of those European countries where the government cannot lend a nation without Parliament knowing about it, and not only has the envisaged credit arrangement to be envisaged in advance in the budget for that year, but each of these arrangements, as we see today, must individually pass the debate in parliament. That is not the case, I must say, with almost no other European country where conditions are much more liberal, but it is estimated and I expect all governments in the future to preserve one such practice that, given the particular problems that some countries, not only Greece, have at this point and it is extremely important that every step in borrowing our country, with a sovereign guarantee, must be well thought out. To remind me, if one such step is included, he must also have his own direct translation and trail in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is not only about taking credit, but also about providing payment for the principal and interest, when the time comes for them. That is why I believe that we have a correct system, a system that will allow what happened this morning to happen in the future, which is that for every single step this assembly gives its opinion, to check whether there is a majority for such a step and that through the public in the work of this entire state, all of our citizens, are familiar with what the executive government is up to. Now, specifically about this question. If we look at it and now I'm going to be precise, these four arrangements, as far as the deal with the Commercial Bank is concerned, it's the most expensive, but if we look at the fact that it's a eurobor plus 3,78%, given that the eurobor is currently at six months is 1.7% on the annual level, up to 5% interest. Here we see that this interest, even if it were with the Commercial Bank, with such a guarantee that this home could give, would come to a favourable situation, more favourable than those that can be obtained on the market. As far as the arrangement that he's proposing to us is now a small sum with the World Bank, given that it's done in the context of so-called. IDA funds, which our country no longer generally has access to, because according to World Bank classification, we no longer belong to a category of countries that can have access to such cheap funds, but just to remind ourselves, it's a library plus 0.6%, since the libor at 0.6% is 1.2% on an annual level. As for the remaining two arrangements, let's take this arrangement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. It's a Eurobor plus 0.5%, that means 2.2%, and as far as the European Bank is concerned for Reconstruction and Development, it's a eurobor plus 1% or 2.7% on an annual basis. Dear People's MPs, I'm talking about the cheapest financial resources available that are possible for one country of our gauge and our rating. That's why I believe, if we agree that the purposes, and it's about social housing, it's about cheap apartments, it's about the possibility of building additional capacity for our country's security and finally, to ensure that our energy potential is strengthened, I believe that the purpose is good and that the conditions are more than correct. I call upon everyone to support these arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61846	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Time is available for 16 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61847	I'd be on my way, since it's four points, so let's know what it's about. I would first start with this loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. I'd like you to look at what you wrote in your explanation. Of course, you're giving some history to this bank, which was originally supposed to solve the issue of refugees and displaced persons after World War II. Meanwhile, the work and function of the bank changed. Now the main task is to finance investments, i.e. projects that create new jobs and in certain regions or create social infrastructure. Apartment, is it social infrastructure? You interpreted him that way. I can also list for you now some countries of Europe that have introduced housing law as a constitutional category, but therefore, the time will come. Let's move on, what you wrote in this explanation of yours. You're saying there's some kind of social housing project. It's probably done by Mr. Dulic. The aim of the project is to address the housing needs of low-income persons who fall under vulnerable categories of population. There's no Mr. Djelic again. You say - 1700 apartments. But what else do you say? Construction of about 1700 housing units that will be made available to end-users of the project on the basis of sales and lending of built housing units. Now, I'm making contact with the first point regarding the Commercial Bank, which also refers to housing units. Look at the situation now. The state provides guarantees or is in debt, the first point is a guarantee, and this second point is direct borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and now you have a situation where both the guarantee and this loan, the second point, have some kind of manual, have some obligations. At the first point of this law, where guarantees are given, apartments are made for the market. The state is making a commitment, and these apartments are already in this barracks or in that location where the barracks have already been sold at some price. What's going to be in the final effect? In the extreme effect it is possible that the state as a guarantee, and we know for ourselves, wherever the state has given a guarantee, it is ultimately at peace with that obligation, not the person on whose name the guarantee is given, so the directorship is state-owned. This guarantee can be interpreted as an assignment. After all, two days ago Mr. Cvetkovic here explained that some guarantees were activated in the meantime. Why? Because some of our public enterprises, to which the Republic of Serbia has granted the guarantee, could not settle the war, so the Republic of Serbia itself activated its guarantee and fulfilled those obligations on their behalf, so as not to increase obligations towards the Republic of Serbia as a final guarantee. He who understands a little bit is all clear about what it's all about. Between "loaning" and "guarantee" there's no difference. But in this contract with the Commercial Bank of the States, it makes a commitment to pay one part of the sale price of those housing units, because you cannot move on to these existing contracts that are now closing all uncertain events and those obligations that may occur during a certain period, since this is also financed by part of the funds provided through the Commercial Bank. It's a re-distribution of the social product. So, taxpayers are supposed to pay some people what they got, as you say, under the benefits of 1,300 euros per metre of a square apartment. The situation, when it comes to this second point, where is the framework agreement, has some justification, but will the socially unsettled persons solve the housing issue? He won't. Why? Because this story is going to be entered by the National Credit Insurance Corporation and other business banks. The proof of that is page 62. The bill of law, the second item of this agenda today. Read what it says. You wrote - loans and budgets to be provided for the financing of the project will be used for the following purposes. One, the construction of about 1,700 housing units worth 50m euros, which is 87% of the total value, the establishment and functioning of the project management unit at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, which is 13% of the total value. Please, you are creating an administration with eightm euros, although this framework agreement covers only 32m euros. What are we talking about? We are talking about good intentions and bad and destructive means to realize these intentions and to allegedly achieve a goal. That's the problem. The problem is, they're slaughtering 300 pounds because of three kilos of liver. This here presents itself as an epochal result. Okay, I can still read you all the failures of this contract. I don't want to get into your interest rates, because then Mr. Djelic gets a place to give some big lectures. Let's go back to this last, or 8th, part of the agenda, which is the Kolubara project. You see, two million euros should be given on behalf of consulting services. Who? This your new director, Kolubara? Electro-economy? A foreign consultant? What are those favors? How do you install a bagger? Well, Ken's got that badger, people. Why did you arrest a man? Serbia is due 80m euros in debt due to badgers. Guys, what are you talking about? A slightly more honest man in Serbia, to give him EPS and Telekom, can win a profit every year and to pay it into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to transfer those funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to cover quite the pensions and the part of health insurance. Just one boss to take and do this job. Why? Because both our public enterprises work with natural resources, a gift to God. They're working with a monopoly that belongs to this country. You're telling us -- we won't have electricity unless we invest 80m euros for one banger. That's terrible. If it's a backhoe, let's see if that bogeyman could be provided elsewhere. Could this facility have been provided under more favourable conditions? It could have. Why not? It's not because one Azimut was taken here, one course was taken. It's a course towards Brussels and Washington. Anything that comes, of course, has no alternative. How much is it? It doesn't matter. Who's gonna pay? Hiding behind a grace period, hiding behind some things. That doesn't make any sense, my people. There's no way. How does this power work when it comes to, say, Colubara? Here's an example. I hope you all got it, since all the MPs we got from Mr. Radoslav Tadic, lawyer Canet Subotic, this video of what he witnessed. But, well, that's not for you to publish. Never mind. Here's an example. You see, the Government of the Republic of Serbia reached a solution on 19 February 2009, which determines the general interest in expropriation, i.e. the administrative transfer of immovable property, as regards Kolubara. What happened in the meantime? A group of 11 people from Vreoc started a trial in front of the administrative court and got a verdict. The suit is respected and the government's solution is annulled. That's exactly the solution, where there's no general interest. No general interest has been established. What is the Government of the Republic of Serbia doing? The government of the Republic of Serbia is sending police and the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to amend and supplement the Expropriation Act. Is that what happened? Why? To violently handle things. There's a rumor in the public that there's a big problem with the Warbler's cemetery. Well, the cemetery isn't the only problem. It's not the only problem. The problem is you're counting on a fair fee for exploited immovableity. The fee varies depending on man to man. You do it that way and then you give epochal results. At the same time, you're conducting a procedure against the people of Colubara. You're accusing them of robbing the century. Veran Matic goes far and says, 120-130m euros. You acknowledge that the large number, 17 biggest tycoons in the Republic of Serbia, which are criminals in gloves, owes billions and billions of euros in the name of taxes and contributions to the Republic of Serbia, and Serbia is in debt under unfavourable conditions, thus doing double damage or triple damage to the Republic of Serbia and the perspective of the Republic of Serbia. You're looking for backup. For what? For projects like this? You can't get support for projects like this from the SRS at all. Of course, we'll be against it and on Voting Day we won't even enter the O.R., so we don't even make visual contact with those who are "the fifth column," but we have a duty to inform the citizens that nothing good will happen from your projects. You know for a fact that the SAA is a disaster for the Republic of Serbia, the market has been sold, CEFTA accession. Here, now you're moaning on your own. At one point UNMIK chaired the CEFTA. In time, we warned you about the customs stamps. Do you know what the mineral wealth of the Republic of Serbia is at Obilic's location? You don't care about that. Do you know how much Blink costs? You don't care about that at all. What do you want to know? The greater the law, the more deger comes and some praise you for being on your way to destroy Serbia and support you in all projects against the vital interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Komic, these two and a half minutes, I would like to offer you the opportunity to go to the EU as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61848	And radicals can contribute to Serbia as soon as possible. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) Since there are no more entries to the word, I conclude a common principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 5 to 8 of the agenda. This concludes the morning part of the session. Now I'm setting a break of an hour. The paper continues at 15.15 hours with a further discussion of the joint single search on the remaining points of the agenda. I'll make a notice of work tomorrow morning based on article 90 of the afternoon. The decision-making depends on whether we have complete information from the Government whether an opinion has been made and whether the Rules of Procedure have been created conditions for us to investigate amendments. If they're not, then we won't be working on Friday, and if they are, then we'll let the congregation know. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon with a joint single search on the draft laws on the validation of international agreements, conventions and protocols, items 9 to 37 of the agenda. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for representatives from 9th to 37th today's session: Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior; Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government; Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management; Nebojsa Ćirić, Minister of Economy and Regional Development; Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice; Dragan Sutanovac, Minister of Defence; Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning; Vuk Jeremic, Minister of Foreign Affairs; Predrag Markovic, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister for Infrastructure and Energy. Also, the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, called for meetings, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, to attend: Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development; Branislav Zec, State Secretary in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development; Goran Petković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence; Tanja Misevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence; Ivan Mrkić, State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Resources of the Republic of Croatia; Snežana Stojanović-Plavić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development; Tanja Misević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence; Ivan Mr. Milovanovic, Assistant of the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade and Resources of the Resources of the Resources of the Fund; Mr.Gražanić, Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Josipović, Assistant Minister of the Minister of the Ministry of the Economy and Regional Development of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia; Mr. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 9 to 37 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, and this is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word, with a number of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says the application for a word is submitted before the debate is opened on the principle of a common principle or uniform search. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: Parliamentarian Donka Banovic, DSS MP – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Mico Rogovic, MP for Serbia, MP Dejan Mirovic, SRS. If any other parliamentary group decides to give authority to one of their members, please inform us of this, that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol of the Agreement on the Amendment and Accession of the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe; Proposal for a Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Amendment and Completion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus of 31 March 2009; Proposal for a Protocol on Confirmation of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Charter of the Treaty on the Free Trade of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Yugoslavia on the Treaty on the Cross-Cormary of the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, and the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, on the Protection of 28 August 2000. A representative of the government will join us in a few minutes, and he will have the right to receive his word. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, does he want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the President of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Dejan Nikolic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the President of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, or vice president of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Meho Omerovic, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs want the word? No, I don't. ) Does Velimir Ilic, president of the Transport and Communications Committee, want the word? No, I don't. ) National MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, does he want a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61850	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That's what you've decided, but it's kind of a weird order that we're starting to discuss right now. First, one of the representatives from the Ministry should explain these bill proposals, and then we from the MPs' clubs begin discussions. But it doesn't matter as much as it is sad that none of you seem to me, 30 people, as you have read, above all ministers, have found fit to come to the congregation. Assistants and these other employees cannot be accused, but I believe that ministers or at least one of the ministers should be present here. A team would rather I simply know the name of this lady who did come from some ministry to do her job in the Assembly. I'd like to greet her personally because it's obviously the only person responsible in our government. As you said, there are 29 draft laws within this 3rd point. I think you've been reading the names of those draft laws for five minutes. It seems to me that out of those 29 there are about eight wholes, so maybe that's how this point should have been shared. But you've made a different decision. So there are united topics of trade and investment, then police co-operation and the fight against corruption, environmental issues, visa waivers with some countries, co-operation in the field of tourism, and the topic of apartria is also covered. Although I should be able to say something about all these points, as ambitious as I should be, it would be simply impossible in 20 minutes, so I'm going to use this time to talk about a convention on the reduction of the number of people without citizenship and the terrible problems facing the apatrides, i.e.. persons without citizenship in the Republic of Serbia. These are people who live physically in Serbia, but are legally invisible to the state because they do not have Serbian citizenship. These people desperately need help because they live in the nightmare of the law. What exactly is citizenship? Nationality is a legally recognised connection of an individual to a single state. Under such a law, recognised links and the status of a citizen, an individual acquires rights guaranteed by the legal system of that particular country. It is this segment of the rights that the state provides and is obliged to provide its citizen, and that is what citizenship is all about. The first international act, which is fully dedicated to the problems of apartride, was the 1954 Convention on the Legal Position of People Without Citizenship. So long ago, the first convention was passed, but signed by only 67 countries, including Serbia. The second international act, aimed at preventing apatria, is precisely this convention that is on the agenda today. She was brought back in 1961. Again, the convention was signed by only 37 countries in the world, but Serbia will also join the group of states. However, the arrival of both of these conventions is very limited, because today there are estimates that there are more than 12 million people in the world who are not citizens of any state. Although there is no precise record, people who deal with this problem in Serbia, therefore, according to their records, say there are about 3,000 people living in Serbia who do not have citizenship, in more than 20 to 25 cities in Serbia. The worst thing about this problem is that the problem is increasing, or the number of people without citizenship is growing. When a child is born into a family where parents do not have citizenship and personal documents, the same problem is usually passed on to children. So this is a problem that threatens to grow, not reduce, unless the state does something serious about it. Speaking of children, I must also point out that this is the most endangered group of people living in Serbia, citizens, even though they are not citizens, and that children are particularly in danger from this group, at risk, and this is very often happening to them, to be abused, to be exploited or to be victims of human trafficking. The exclusion of children, when I say exclusion, means exclusion from society, they're invisible, they don't exist, the state doesn't recognize them, starts very early. Mostly these kids aren't born in health care facilities, they're born at home. Parents, or because they do not have, is mostly the reason, personal documents or do not know, do not report the birth of their child in birth certificates born within 30 days. So you have a child who doesn't have a birth certificate. Thus, a child, or parent, cannot provide health insurance, or a bookbook for his child. So people have been disproved as far as health care is concerned. When it comes to primary education, it means now we're talking about a segment of education, such a child who doesn't have a birth certificate, there's no documents, neither that nor a parent, can enter a primary school but can't get a testimony because he doesn't own any other documents. So, as if she hadn't finished elementary school. As far as further education goes, it's impossible. So high school can't have a kid like that. Of course, these people can't start any work relationship, they don't have the right to social protection, social work centres don't recognize them because people don't have ID documents, they can't close their marriage, they can't report their residence, they can't acquire property and they don't have travel documents, so their movements are limited. I've led all of this to somehow give you colleagues and citizens the kind of vicious circle in which these people move and that without serious help from the state and the changes in some laws these people can't get out of that circle. Several years ago, organisations dealing with this problem in Serbia, I think in 2008, some colleagues even attended these round tables, or public hearings on this issue, offered and presented to the MPs the model of the law on the process of recognising legal subjectivity. This rather short model, therefore, was not a bill, there were not many members, an effective and simplified procedure for the subsequent entry of legally invisible persons was envisaged. However, no ministry has accepted the model. What else did the ministries of the Republic of Serbia miss to do? To introduce appropriate changes in existing laws that constitute an obstacle to particularly subsequent entry in the books of origin. In the course of this conference, we have passed a new law on parent books. I think that it came into effect somewhere in early 2004, and both then and the current Minister of State Administration and local self-government did not find it appropriate to be in law, not only to mention the possibility of subsequent entry into the birth certificates, but it missed the possibility that in this law this issue would be clearly handled so that the state authorities using, among other things, the Law on Parent Books would know that they were acting in certain situations. So the Department of State and Local Self-Government missed it. At the beginning of this year, as many as 120 organisations dealing with the problems of legally invisible people in Serbia have proposed, as well as a model of the law, I do not know exactly how the title of the law was, but the essence of this law is that it was only regulated matter of the subsequent entry of citizens into the parent book of borns. Believe it or not, the Ministry didn't even respond to that proposal. So it's sad that it's the ministry that's in charge of some of the other ministries, which doesn't seem to recognize the problem. What did the ministry do instead of one short bill? It is in April, or May, it seems to me this year, I will now read to you what this instruction is called: "The instructions on the way the authorities are working out in the first-degree procedure, in the area of parent books, according to the requirements for compensation for the registration of birth facts in the parent books of the born". People who help these people get to their personal documents warn that this instruction has not helped, that it is still a burning problem and they are appealing to the ministries to try through one law to solve the problems of these people who, again, point out that word, are invisible. It's sad, but it's true. When this law or bill is to ratify this convention, we also have the reason that the UN Secretary-General spoke to the Serbian government, or to the president of Serbia, and called on Serbia to join this Convention, perhaps the previous governments in the previous period have missed it, which is very strange because Serbia has long faced the problem of apathy, i.e. people who have no citizenship, are also facing a large number of refugees who are also a very vulnerable group and internally displaced persons. So this is a problem that Serbia, unfortunately, knows. You continue to know that Serbia is today 12 countries in the world by the number of refugees and internally displaced persons. So this is quite a problem regarding Serbia, and we all don't have any apatride in the country. So, there is an invitation for Serbia to join this convention, to say among other things, that in December of this month, a ceremony will be held, so that it will mark 50 years since the adoption of the convention and that the president of the state of Boris Tadic will attend the signing ceremony, which means that Serbia has joined this convention. What I have to say is that it is a very worrying position and that all citizens in Serbia are very concerned about the policy led by this government and the president of the state. I was talking here about a group of three thousand people who don't have citizenship. The way Serbia's president leads politics and its ministers, some citizens rightly fear that they will become a new apatrid, or as if we are running out of state. So the result of three and a half years, this policy that you're leading can result in the disappearance of our country. So we can be that endangered group and apartrid. One more thing, whenever President Tadic goes to sign something, solemnly, I am sorry that he is not Minister Djelic here, because he is a great promoter of this story about Serbia having no alternative. I am sorry that Mr. Mrkonjic is here, because I know that he did not attend that famous signing of the SAA and the transitional trade agreement ahead of the previous parliamentary elections. Remember, it was a joy and theater for the people ahead of the Luxembourg elections when President Tadic, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, etc. when they signed the SAA. We have warned from the DSS, warned people not to do this, not to enter into contractual relations, and whether it is the EU that is jeopardising your country and territorial integrity. That, among other things, Serbia has committed to developing good neighbourly co-operation in the document. We're from the DSS, then we did an excellent legal analysis of that text. Then the media that likes so much is to turn every serious topic into, not to use an ugly word, but a joke. Now in the media they've written, here's DS Serbia wrote a political analysis of the SAA. So it was just like a joke. They don't have people to do better than that, so they're doing this paperwork analysis. Now they've all come back to read the legal analysis, because the big start was the problem that you've brought Serbia into now. So you made a commitment three and a half years ago to develop good neighbourly relations, including with your own province. Then came the signing of an agreement on Serbia to accept EULEX's presence in its province. Eulex has only one mandate, which is to build a legal state in Kosovo. It was signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why are you surprised now? Eulex is doing his job. So I ask those who can, say, prevent our president and prime minister from signing something in the future, to do it because citizens are rightly concerned that they will be apatrides, that their state will disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61851	Eighteen minutes used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61852	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have before us a set of points of this principle and joint copy somewhere around 29 agreements from various areas. I personally did not expect Minister Mrkonjic. Before I expected Minister Djelic to be present, but since Minister Mrkonjic is present, then I will choose, in view of the 29-point agenda, to choose from his area, and with the fact that it is impossible to base 20 minutes on the story of 29 different drafts of the law, then I will rely on the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on strategic partnership and co-operation, because this law, or the bill, refers to part of the area of the ministry headed by Mr Mrkonjic and I am based on the Law on confirming the agreement and establishing an anti-corruption academy as an international organisation, and my colleagues will talk about other agreements, i.e. draft laws. At one point, Mrs. Komic, I was afraid that all the employees of the Ministry of Economy would be translated into the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the most read were, and when we pass every morning in front of the Agency for Privatisation and Ministry of Economy, there are daily protests, so they probably don't have good working conditions, and then I was really convinced that they would bring you to the Assembly to work, but it didn't turn out the way I thought. What is disputed about the SNS on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Strategic Partnership and Cooperation is a controversial Article 4. The draft indent 3 and for the public, and also for Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's sake, I would have to read the same, so it's said in Article 4. – in order to develop economic co-operation and trade exchange, in particular in the area of sustainable development and the strengthening of the competitiveness of businesses, the parties will be committed, and now indent 3. – strengthening bilateral co-operation in the area of urban infrastructure, especially the realisation of the Belgrade Metro project, where France would be a strategic partner to Serbia on the signing of a declaration of intentions between the Serbian-French government and the city authorities of Belgrade, which would contain mutual, acceptable and coherent modes for the Metro project. This is what is debateable and we think that a bilateral agreement of this kind, i.e. the law should not contain this provision, i.e. this indent, and we think that, primarily, this bilateral agreement has been made, i.e. the bill's proposal, and that all other provisions of this bill are just decorations that need to cover up the real intentions of the creators of this agreement and the very idea of a quick construction of the Belgrade subway. Everything else mentioned in the proposal for this law has already been made through various agreements with the EU, so that the same agreements are accepted by the Member States and there is no need to regulate specific bilateral agreements like this. It is our opinion, and if we are mistaken, the minister will make an correction, that it was done solely because of the rapid construction of the city's subway in Belgrade. What does the disputed provision primarily allow? It allows for the construction of a metro in Belgrade without public procurement, i.e. without public procurement procedures, which is contrary to Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what is contrary to the Public Procurement Act. This cannot be derived in this way from the context of the bill's proposal, but the bill must be linked to a campaign that has been working on this topic lately. If the purpose of this law is really just this, it shouldn't have come to the congregation today. A campaign in terms of building a subway, what is seen from statements that have recently been made by very high city and republican leaders, which is that the project on feasibility on all effects, budgets and all effects, in the construction of the subway will be carried out by the French company Alston Transport, and what is happening? It is not disputed that this company will get a performance assessment, a feasibility study, the problem is that the company is likely, on the basis of some of the words I received from the minister last night, which I was expecting here, Mr. Djelic, which is that some countries, which was an example of Germany that did not at any time put pressure on our ministers and on the government, and has a priority in negotiating obligations, i.e. business and investment in Serbia, and that some countries that he did not want to mention at that time, so these French companies are introducing a French company in the construction of the subway, or in the making of a feasibility assessment of "Alston Transport" and the situation that the same company would continue to build the metro and deliver equipment, because in principle, the city metro is a unique continent and cannot be said to be an investment of several billion euros. What's next? It further withdraws the delivery of parts of equipment, when you introduce one company to a small door, with such a bilateral agreement to make performance assessments, it starts to build a metro, this process is long-term, for now two lines are mentioned, and later there will be more lines, but I will talk about it in the part of my exposure and normal, thus withdrawing and purchasing equipment, expensive equipment in maintaining the subway and everything that follows, which is contrary to the Public Procurement Act and Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the French firm mentioned is interested in making a feasibility assessment, feasibility studies, it is quite normal that the said company interested in building the subway will demonstrate its eligibility for construction. You're dragging yourself into the business, given everything that you've done in the previous period regarding this disputed term of Article 4, I mean a bilateral agreement with France and individual city and republican leaders. Mr. Mrkonjic, if in Belgrade we still have a number of renowned private and state colleges, architectural, electrical, traffic, so you're a fighter, you keep pointing out and I hope that you've shown this situation in part, for priorities in business with domestic companies, why these universities and various institutions that have experts in this area don't get this job, but the French firm is being introduced into a long-term process. The process itself is a matter of justification for this process, i.e. assessment of feasibility, in the construction of the subway itself, and I will talk about it later, because according to the last census of 10 years ago, Belgrade has about a million and 600,000 inhabitants, and probably that figure is over two million, and that will show the list that is under way. It is estimated that the situation in other European metropolises and cities is that the metro works in cities that have the smallest inhabitants as a whole of Serbia, particularly the statements by certain Belgrade leaders that Belgrade's terrain is not really in favour of the aspect of technical justification. You know perfectly that metros work in cities that have the least population like the whole state of Serbia and that they are mostly flat-rate, not hilly terrains, as in various arguments, and that when an accelerated campaign is justified to realise such an expensive project of several billion dollars or euros. The first line in these statements in this campaign states that it will be built from Ban's Hill to Law School and then we all wonder what we needed to reconstruct certain hubs, what we needed bridge on Ada. That's what I'm talking about because of the second line of the subway that's scheduled from Ustasha Street to Zemun, which is simply by discharging Gazela with a new bridge and with a bridge from Zemun and by ending the reconstruction of Gazela, Gazela will literally be relieved. If we also take into account the New Belgrade municipality and the broad traffic facility there, then indeed this second line – Ustaška ulica – Zemun, there is almost no justification and the situation that we recently had to invest in this area of over 70m euros in terms of the purchase of new rail vehicles for transport in the city or tramway. What we need then is the construction of the first line of subways from Banovo Brda to the Faculty of Law when the infrastructure is improved, reconstructed, purchased trams, and since the good situation, apart from this controversial loop around Gazela, is a good traffic situation on the road from Banovo Brdo to the Faculty of Law and in terms of tramway and bus traffic. If we have money and if the city of Belgrade really has enough money, then we are really wondering if a good feasibility study would show all its justification or in a situation where Serbia and this entire people and the city of Belgrade, would the arguments of justification be shown for this whole study if this job was not closed with the project, i.e. building an assessment of the feasibility study and the realisation itself and later maintenance of the subway. If this number of several billion needs to be invested somewhere, if the City of Belgrade does, then we can't forget the fact that more than 30% of Belgrade's citizens, primarily suburban settlements, have no solution to the problem of basic infrastructure, and these are sewerage networks and we can't forget, to remember the statements made by Belgrade Mayor Mr. Gilas, that for this problem which is a burning problem daily, over 30% of Belgrade's citizens need half a billion euros, and this metro project in the current situation with only two lines costs several billion euros. Isn't it more important to solve these problems? We can't help but think of the situation and the cost of the subway, for example, in the functioning of Beovoza. The question of rentability of Beovoza's use must indeed always stand before us and whether this is a good situation to speed up a fast-track campaign to realise Belgrade's metro project. This is about what is controversial about this proposal for a partnership law between the Government of the Republic of France and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we are wrong and if all of this is not done in other agreements, then you can, or if there is anything else that is unclear about building a subway, I'm merely stating what the city and republican leaders in the area of this problem have been stressing lately. We believe that this fast-track campaign does not lead us anywhere except to new borrowings and the situation that it is prioritized to solve other problems of the citizens of Begorad, their existence, and primarily this problem that I have pointed out that there should be less resources than for building two subway lines in Belgrade and the fact that it is not such an economic situation that the crisis is everywhere, both in Belgrade and in Serbia, and that we have a priority project. What is related to SNS, and I will talk about the next proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing an anti-corruption academy as an international organisation, disputed about this bill, is that there is no information that the participating countries are involved in this agreement. Another thing, this so-called. The academy established by this agreement cannot be an international organisation because, according to this proposal, it is also an ordinary educational institution registered in the territory of Austria. That's what you can see from the bill. It has management bodies, as well as any other educational institution, and it deals with education affairs, as well as any other educational institution. The only difference is that in the Assembly of this Academy there are representatives of the state, unlike other educational institutions in all countries, including ours. In addition to this, Article 2(2) states that academic freedoms are respected, which is a characteristic, you must admit, colleges and not some international organisations. It also explains that there is no need for specific funds to be allocated from the budget, and the agreement says that Member States will finance the academy's work. From what means if funds are not needed to deprive funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget? In addition, it is prescribed that members of the board of directors are engaged in a personal capacity committee, as stated in Article 6. The same is true in Articles 7 and 8 of this bill for members of the other committees, and further there are all employees and management. Where, then, is the funding mode for such an international organisation if it is not the Member States, or the signatories of this contract? What does all this look like, in connection with confirming an agreement on the establishment of an international anti-corruption academy as an international organisation? On a good private variant that some predetermined individuals provide places in the committees of the Academy and jobs in the Academy and easy life probably in Austria, given the fact that the headquarters will be located in Austria and close to the capital of Austria, or that, if they do not, sometimes the cost of the state jumps to the assembly or meetings of the board of this organization because it is perfectly normal that they will not work on their own cost but rather on the cost of the state. Honestly, I think it was better to allocate funds for this agency instead, or for this academic international organisation, funds for the registry agency, because I don't think it was well done properly and properly. There's a 260-page document out there where almost without any order, data on one number of organs and officials has been uploaded, and not all of them. You cannot perform a search on any criteria. Let's just say we have a situation that according to the Law on the financing of political organisations, all things on the Internet have to be on the Internet presentation, and you can't do a search on a serious agency like this. If I want to see if there is, for example, any application against Mr Mrkonjic, and I know that there is, in relation to the Agency's work, then no criteria can I perform a search on any of the 260 pages of this agency, so that, now I have little to do and the work of this agency, it is more necessary to invest funds in this agency and we believe that indeed this protocol and the Law confirming an agreement on the establishment of an international anti-corruption adachemia as an international organisation does not affect any of its provisions on international organisations but acts on a single established organisation registered in the territory of Austria which, under the very proposal of this law, is an ordinary university or educational institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61853	Eighteen minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61854	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, we believe that this number of agreements as one item of the agenda shows to a good extent both the situation and the economic, political and legal situation in which the Republic of Serbia is present. First of all, we are referring to an exemption agreement from the free trade regime with the Russian Federation, which shows that simply, in the general sense, this European path is excluded with one kind of economic and any other co-operation with the Russian Federation based on a free trade agreement, because it will be seen from the provisions of this Treaty and from the arguments that we will make economically possible that by one day EU membership, which we are against, of course, both economically and politically, will lead to the abolition of our only export and development prospects, which is a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. Of course, we do not ignore other agreements and contracts that are at this point in the agenda, above all those related to this contract, which are those countries, concerning those countries that are the customs union, the new customs union between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, but we consider this to be one contract, one basic foundation of future economic development of the Republic of Serbia. We believe, of course, that the minister has good intentions, as far as this contract is concerned, but simply he is part of a government that has a dogma or a kind of nightmare at all costs that the EU has no alternative. What does that mean exactly? You see in this protocol the exemption from the free trade regimes to reduce those products falling under this customs tariff, which can be made on the Russian Federation market. In light of this contract, it is said that this will not make our exports to the Russian Federation's market worse. However, the next contract with Belarus says it will. So that's one illogicality that shows that this other interpretation is more accurate and that it's simply a kind of mutually exclusive fact. In Article 3 of this contract with Russia, we see that the Russian side requires precise definitions of the origin of goods and that it is simply about licences, quotas and what is very interesting as part of the political and economic situation in the Republic of Serbia, which my colleague Natasa Jovanovic will tell you more, it is that simply passenger cars listed in this customs tariff and which do not have 50% domestic material cannot be exported to the Russian Federation market. You certainly do, Mr. Minister, you know, because that's what Mr. Shoygu of the Russian Federation said, that simply the Car Factory in Kragujevac can't export Fiat's cars to the Russian market like they're Serbian and that's one fact that's going to be difficult to change if we know that these cars are in over 90% of their parts produced abroad. I don't know, there may be technological procedures like paints being done in our factory. So there is none, and this should be made clear to the public of the Republic of Serbia, there is no export from the Kragujevac car factory, i.e. Fiat's cars on the Russian market are precisely because of this contract and precisely because of the fact that more foreign producers' factories operate on the Russian market, and among other things, one Fiat, if I'm not mistaken. We also see that this exemption agreement from the free trade regime has several protocols and a contribution which also speaks about these 50% of the goods that must be produced in Serbia, and that is another proof that it is one contract that is mutually excluded with one type of customs union that we have entered into after the SAA from the EU, more specifically after a unilateral and economically harmful application of the Transition Trade Agreement. What does that mean exactly? I'll let you know, Minister, a few specifics that show that so-called The European path of the Republic of Serbia or the EU's entry into the EU leads to the abolition of this free trade agreement with the Russian Federation, which we are also discussing today with Belarus and with the Kazakhstan Treaty, which are certainly less significant in economic terms for the Republic of Serbia, but certainly should not be underestimated. President Tadic was also almost in Kazakhstan and said there is one broad perspective of developing economic relations with the country, which we do not deny, but we even think it should be stronger in our economic plans. However, I have a Lisbon contract here. It's valid, let's say, the EU Constitution. In Article 28. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU or part of the Lisbon Treaty literally states that all EU Member States must have a common customs tariff towards third countries. That's quite clear. So, if Serbia enters the EU, which we are absolutely against both economically and politically, the free trade agreement with the Russian Federation will be abolished. I'll give you one more piece of evidence that this isn't some arbitrary interpretation of the SRS or my own. I'll call on the gentleman who signed this free trade agreement, i.e. an addendum to the free trade agreement with the Minister of Economy. It is a representative of the Russian Trade Federation in the Republic of Serbia. He literally said in March 2011, you can see, there is a "Employment Review", on March 3, 2011, that if Serbia enters the EU, the validity of the free trade agreement with the Russian Federation will be abolished. We believe, referring precisely to the data presented in the light of this law, that it would be an economic disaster for the Republic of Serbia. On what grounds do we claim? You see and surely know that the total foreign trade exchange between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, which, above all, you agree, is based on this free trade agreement, is about $2.5 billion in 2010. You can say that in 2010 it was one year out of the crisis and that it is not a rapper for full analysis, but in 2011 and again I call for the justification of this free trade agreement, you have one growth of mutual trade between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia of 40%. So it's not our data, it's the government of the Republic of Serbia's data. What is best in economic terms for the Republic of Serbia, this growth is primarily based on exports to the Russian Federation. According to this argument, the free trade agreement, which we are considering today, is about 60%. You'll admit, I don't know about this data, you can deny me, I don't know that this kind of development of foreign trade and the development of our exports, which, you'll admit, is one kind of dizziness for our entire industry, for our entire economy, is thus one big growth. On the other hand, we are again expressing a constructive concern that it is possible that one free trade agreement, which is being extended, because, as we see in the wake of the urgency of the procedure for this free trade agreement, it is said to be brought in order to bring new economic realities into place in the former Soviet Union. It is, of course, mentioned in the reasoning of the law on the adoption of a new customs union that was in fact created in 2010, between the Russian Federation, between Kazakhstan and Belarus. It's about 170 million people on that market, on the market where we are precisely through this free trade agreement, which we are discussing today, we have a privileged position, we have a position that is responsibly claimed and we in the SRS have founded our economic and programmes and analyses, that there is no such contract for a country west of Karpat. I just can't understand that it's going to be a kind of slow-cutting contract just because of some dogmatical phrase that there's something that doesn't have an alternative. Also, you certainly know that there is another argument that shows that this contract is very important and that you should fight for it in terms of preservation. You know, I watched you the other night on Russian television, it was seen that you knew the state's economy, that it could happen very easily that in the shortest time possible and Ukraine, a country of 50 million people who were comparable both in the territory and in the population with France, joined this customs alliance that is spoken of in this free trade agreement. So, from an economic point of view, it is very likely that over the next few years, to be realistic, to give the widest possible deadline, there will be a single customs union of 220 - 230 million inhabitants, which you will admit is 50% of the EU market. However, there is one fundamental difference that cannot be ignored. Our products, unfortunately, I say that from an economic point of view, means, aside from the abduction of Kosovo and the political general facts that are known to everyone, our products have no chance on the EU market. First of all, because of subsidies in the common agricultural policy of France and Germany, which is the basis of the EU and you know how many both countries, starting on De Gaulle and to Adenauer, have advocated a common agricultural policy based on subsidies. Our agriculture doesn't stand a chance. Another important fact that shows that this contract that we are talking about today is more than important and that it should be preserved at all costs is the fact that non-tariff barriers dominate the EU market. The Republic of Serbia simply is unable to comply with any standards, with any non-tariff barrier, even if there were political will and courage for such a thing, with a sophisticated system of non-tariff barriers that exist in the EU. Unfortunately, we have done exactly the opposite, and I will give you one more proof that this contract should have been kept at the expense of the suspension of so-called. European integration, a memorandum submitted by the prime minister and president in 2009, on the submission of the candidacy, where in the economic part, it is said that, despite the fact that protectionism has re-entered the world stage, we will apply a unilaterally transitional trade agreement and it is a kind of economic nonsense, but it is another topic. As for the fact that this contract is very important, more important than both candidacy and all contracts, including the SAA, I will give you another example. Often in our public, it is a kind of phrase that Russia allegedly wants Serbia to join the EU. I'm not going to deal with this subject, and I'm not going to interpret Russian politics here, nor am I planning something like that, but I'm going to give you, as a minister who you certainly know this market best of all ministers, one piece of information that tells you how important it is to preserve this free trade agreement. You know that the Russian and Ukrainian prime ministers met somewhere in April 2011. At that time, the Russian side very decidently said, in view of Ukraine's desire to enter the free trade regime with the EU, it means, not in membership, but only in the free trade regime that we have since November 2000, which has only brought us an increase in the external trade deficit. He literally said that this customs union that we are discussing today and that we are bringing this agreement with Russia and Belarus on exemptions from the free trade regime has 10% customs protection. On the other hand, Ukraine as a member of the World Trade Organisation has 4% customs protection. In addition to such differences in customs, which you agree are not small at all, the Russian prime minister then said they would introduce protection customs. So, above the 10%, they will introduce protection customs duties, to "defend" against goods coming from the market and from EU countries. I am now asking a concrete question to the government of the Republic of Serbia – what will happen to our free trade agreement? The answer is more than clear and anyone who has neutrally considered the EU without alternative and certainly considers the facts, will conclude that a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation will be abolished and protection customs will be imposed by the Russians. What does that mean exactly? I will again refer to the reasoning of this contract that we are considering today as the most important online of all these contracts. It is explained that, in addition to exporting Serbian companies to the Russian market increased by 60% this year, it is simply about exporting industrial goods, about exporting goods that are not sufficient on the Russian market. The first company is listed "Hemofarm", the second is listed "Synthelon Sargan", and in that sense I have to point out that it is one kind of rejection perhaps the only economic option, because you know that Hemofarm is 97% of the property of a German firm. The factory, which Hemofarm, based on the free trade agreement that we are discussing today, will be successful in Russia only one part of the chain of the concept that has taken over Hemofarm and will bring income to the Serbian state and not to Serbian citizens, but to companies from Western Europe. I want to be completely specific. It's about one absurd fact about this free trade agreement. If companies from Germany, which is the leading country in the EU, have an interest in buying a Serbian company such as Hemofarm, just because or because it has a part in that development and social programme in the Russian Federation and has even factories on the Russian market, then I see no reason why we should run away from the preservation of this contract. It's just that it's incomprehensible to me, and for us in the SRS, it's amazing. We are aware that because of this you are suffering from pressure, but simply, to cut the branch on which the Serbian economy, the Serbian industry, sits, it is completely absurd. I'll give you another piece of information that points to the seriousness of this topic. We of the SRS claim that this is a very important topic and that it is much more important than the one about candidacy. We saw it yesterday on the show with Tomislav Nikolic and Djelic, where everyone agreed with Deger, but it's already another topic. You simply have a contract that is so important and so important. I simply cannot believe that there is no interest not only in the Government of the Republic of Serbia but also in our businessmen and our public to preserve this contract. On the other hand, I will not only claim that it is exports to the Russian market, but it exists based on the free trade agreement we are discussing today, there is also a conflict process. It is imports from Russia, where the dominant NIS, which is not a Russian firm in general, is almost 50% owned by Serbia, and if I am not mistaken, is one of the largest, if not the largest donors of the budget. The second largest importer, and this is written in the light of this contract is US Steel – Sartide. It's just that we're coming back to the same topic that we started this free trade deal debate, how it was possible to sell to some company from the west a kind of industrial enterprise, which is dependent on exactly the Russian producer. There is an absurd situation that shows what happens when politics interferes with the economy. How serious the situation is I'm going to give you another piece of information, you must know that today the number of industrial workers in the Republic of Serbia is around 386 thousand. It's at the level of 1961 and it's a disaster. Our industrial production not only cannot reach the level of 1998, when we had the rebellion of those so-called today. The government in Pristina, we can't reach the number of industrial workers from decades ago. I think it's one disturbing fact. I appeal to you again and again to say that you have good intentions, unlike the Government, but the question is how much you will be able to realise, to break this practice, that something that is good in economic terms, for political reasons and for this EU treaty, is that it is making huge expenditures in the budget. Of course, with that I will end up, we have one experience that is generally known and that these pro-European parties are fleeing, which is one-sided application of the transitional trade agreement, which brings us a loss of 130m euros a year just to reduce customs duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61855	The word has a minister, Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61856	To encourage Mr. Mirovic, I realized that you would vote for this. Well done, that's the thing. That's the thing. Right, I gave a little interview to Russian television and they convinced it. I'm going to encourage you right now, and two projects from a $800m package or 650 project, as far as I'm concerned, millions of euros have been signed and jobs will start in a few days. So, as you can see, the government of the Republic of Serbia, I've been saying all along, there are absolutely no reserves in this regard. The Russian loan goes, and that is proof of what Mr. Mirovic claims to be a good market. Of course it is a good market, and that is why I appeal to you that we have only a little patience. I'll tell you one more thing, although I just said it, and I wouldn't say it if I wasn't here in the Assembly, Mr. Vuk Jeremic, my younger colleague, was here last night, as soon as he came back, three hours ago, telling me about the conclusions of a mixed committee in Beijing, where two major projects from the energy domain will, unfortunately, be in my vault, and once again I say, it has to be a special resort for the future government, if you make it I'm making that recommendation, so two other major projects from that resort with the Chinese will be very soon agreed. Maybe by the end of this month, but since I suffer constant criticism of my deadlines, which I am giving myself, and I am informing you of that, to wait. It is certain that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has absolutely no reserves according to either Chinese or Russian markets. That's what I want you to believe. As for Mr. Rogovic, this is an agreement with the French that, not to read everything now, you've read everything, there are several segments. One of them is the one relating to the infrastructure. That's quite clear. The National Council, speaking of the Belgrade Metro, for the infrastructure, led by Mr Tadic, has been very successful, as the fourth project in the order of our priorities at the beginning of the work of this government has been set up by the metro. So, personally, I think that with the methroom, not to mind my comrades in Belgrade, I am now supporting them, but rather late. Belgrade has long crossed the line with a million or two million inhabitants when it has to deal with underground traffic. As you know, this is a strategic partnership, and it doesn't guarantee anyone that they'll get a job. I said a moment ago and I ask you to believe me – the government of the Republic of Serbia primarily cares about our businesses, about our workers, but it's not bad for Alstom, it's a global firm, being one of the strategic partners. That's how I understood the agreement, and it's not about breaking the spear, but about giving support and wind to Belgrade's back to start the project. Once again, I underline, only development projects employ new people, and current projects employ current workers. Our big chance is in these very developmental projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61857	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word, to use their right? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted: the DSS parliamentary group, the Progressive Group of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group and the MEP group for European Serbia. The first reported on the list in the order of MPs and according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for the laws set out in the 9th to 37th agenda is MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61858	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, in this forest of conventions and protocols, which are now in front of us, united in this unique agenda, and there are exactly 29 of them, there are an awful lot of different areas, from different matter, and it is natural to assume that before ratification of them here they are discussed and that the citizens of Serbia are told what this is about and what their country wants to do, which is what they want to commit, therefore, in the whole of that forest there are two protocols, two proposed laws relating to environmental protection. I want to talk about these two protocols, or conventions. The first is a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of the environment. So, not to be ironic, but to be very precise, about co-operation in the field of environmental protection of a decades-old EU candidate and one of five minutes ago, but if we take the condition that he is a candidate. The second is called the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Registers of Releases and Transfers of Contaminants, with the Convention on the Accessibility of Information, on Public Participation in Decision Making and the Right to Legal Protection in Environmental Matters. So, two, as far as I'm concerned, very important protocols, especially this other one, the one relating to the release and transfer registers of polluting matter, because based on this protocol, our country commits to supplying all information related to the transfer and release of polluting substances to the public, and to include the public, or the citizens of Serbia, in decision making, those concerning the lives of Serbian citizens and their constitutionally guaranteed right to a healthy environment and their health. But I have to say another fact, the parent board, the Committee on Environmental Protection, did not deal with these protocols, these bill proposals, believing that they were probably not important for some reason. We, therefore, come here for a session without the Committee's opinion on the matter. The president of the Committee, who, in public, likes to create a picture of himself as a great advocate and environmentalist, clearly demonstrates this attitude, by unannounced session that would deal with this, but, for God's sakes, and the Committee's many months of unhappiness in that part, clearly demonstrates its position. So, elections are close, and ecology, for God's sake, is not a topic where points can be compressed. Of course, everyone knows who this man is, it's Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. We at the DSS do not think that protecting the environment is a subject of post-tourism in this assembly, and therefore we want to open this story to the end and we want the citizens of Serbia to know the things that are happening in this country. The protocol on the release and transfer of polluting substances is an international document created in Kiev in 2003 at a ministerial conference. It is the first legally binding instrument on release and transfer registers of polluting substances. He obliges all signatories to establish a register. Our law also provides for the establishment of a register of the release and transfer of polluting substances, but also, what is very important to us, for all information on this area to be given to the public. Why? Because the Protocol on the Registers of Releases and Transfers of Contaminants has been developed within the meaning of the so-called ‘Corporate Directive’ of the European Parliament and of the Council. Archusic conventions. It is a convention on the availability of information, on public participation in decision-making and the right to legal protection on environmental issues. It's this famous 1998 Archusa Convention, which our country ratified. We have therefore incorporated into our laws these important principles. Most importantly, it is a convention that for the first time brought about a direct link between human rights and the environment. That's what's important. In accordance with the Archus Convention, this Protocol shall further discuss all parts of which it has been made, beginning with looks, structure, scope, and in particular rules relating to the collection and storage of data, reporting, public access to information, public participation in the development of registers. These are all the parts that this protocol, which is part of this Archusa Convention, has collected from this Archusa Convention, which, as far as we're concerned, is important and I keep pointing out. The adoption of this protocol is very important for all countries with rapid industrial development, which have problems with the increased use of various chemical substances. On that side, we don't have to worry, we're not that kind of country. So, we don't have industrial development, we don't even know if we know what industry is, but we as a country have to say that it's important for us that some, for God's sakes, are very important laws, such as the Constitution and other laws in the field of environmental protection, such as the Nature Protection Act, such as the Water Protection Act, the Air Protection Act, the Nature Protection Act, are related to these principles. It is very important that we talk about it in this congregation. I can see that there is already one period, as we here, of course, not from the opposition but from the MPs of the ruling majority of praise, that there are many laws being passed here, especially laws in the field of environmental protection. That, of course, is true, it's especially true that they're being passed in packages, so I'm going to mention what they look like to the size of these five laws, nine laws to the 17 laws. So that's how we make these laws, we can barely inform ourselves and talk about them. Because with 17 laws in 20 minutes, there's not much you can say. That's why we're missing that part of surveillance to see how these laws apply. I'll give you one example. Of course, a memo from the Ministry of Environment, signed by Minister Oliver Dulic, recently arrived to all local self-governments. It is an instruction in the handling of environmental inspectors and competent authorities for issuing licences at all levels. This document also states one such item: "For the storage of waste, dangerous and harmless, it is not necessary to make an impact study on the environment. The solution prescribes measures to protect the environment." In other words, you don't have to do an environmental impact analysis to house hazardous waste, say, for the accommodation of uranium, but it's enough to have a solution for that. It's a memo sent to the inspectors. I have this document here, so I don't have to give any unverified information. I must draw attention to the public, we also had an opportunity in the Assembly to talk about the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment and amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment. We have pointed out that the law has two aspects that are very important for protocol. The first aspect is that all projects must pass a multidisciplinary commission dealing with technical details of the project, and the second is public advertising. This means that a set of interested citizens must be organised who will get acquainted with the project at the meeting and be able to declare the project. In this way, they can, and when this is Dulic's instruction only theoretically, prevent the construction of an object, a project, if they believe that this project can endanger their health, their children, or could endanger a much wider environment. What did Mr. Dulic want with this instruction? Of course, what he's trying to tell us here right now is that we need to adopt this protocol. He was the one who wanted to avoid parts of that protocol, and that's the public. He wanted them to agree in four eyes on storage, I repeat, uranium, because uranium is also a dangerous waste, according to the Basel Convention, like all other poisons that can occur to you, so that such a warehouse can be found in both your street and your building, and that you have no idea about it. In 1999, the citizens of Serbia were "a merciful angel" in that famous humanitarian action, and how they were exposed to the influence of the poored uranium, which they mercilessly poured on our heads by friends of Minister Sutanovac, NATO friends. Now we still need to worry about whether our neighbours will press poverty for several thousand euros, agree to store uranium in the basement of some building in barrels. I deliberately caricate it because I think this is a thing that all MPs should think the same thing. To clarify something else, if you want to, say, make a cattle farm in Serbia, you have to do an assessment and an environmental impact analysis. If you want to store uranium in your basement, you don't have to do this analysis, it's enough to make a solution or make a deal with the inspector. Does everyone in this building feel normal today? Of course it's not normal. Someone really needs to explain to the citizens of Serbia why they were stealing and cattle are more dangerous to the health of the environment by the health of Serbian citizens than it is poored or even uranium. I expect Minister Dulic to tell you. This is what we're gonna talk about. We're opening this topic, but we're going to talk a lot about it. Also, I have one more thing to tell you, just as an example. When the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was here, we had a chance to talk about sublegal documents. Sublegal documents have been partially done. In one such direction, which is as big as a book, all those who want to build a wind power plant are ordered to do an assessment of the impact of the power plant on bats. It's perfect from the position of us who defend all elements of the environment. Please, isn't it a cynicism that, on the one hand, we protect bats and, on the other hand, we open a highway for these things to happen? People who have been in practice for years in this area, therefore, professionals, have never seen a document similar to the one I've shown and who I can show again. We believe that such a document, under the pressure of this Parliament, must be withdrawn. We need to think about one thing, about voting for this protocol. The DSS will think very carefully about voting for the protocol, but Mr Dulic's shift and resignation should not be considered. He should resign or be removed from Mr. Cvetkovic at the moment I say this. It is a shame in one country, in a democratic country, to send such a document to local self-government. Serbian citizens are guaranteed the right to a healthy environment by the Constitution. All these conventions and all these protocols that are being put before us mean that we are fighting to make progress in that area. The fact that one step with the law is really worth 25 steps downhill, one despoting minister who has no idea what Serbia is and environmental protection is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61859	13.30 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61860	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is not worth trying to discuss the 27 - 28 points of the agenda. It is likely that each of the opposition MPs will find some law they will discuss when it comes to these agreements. I was a little preparing an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic, not only because it is the Russian Federation, but because it has been a problem that has existed for a long time in our road traffic. It's just one of the reasons. The agreement itself is nothing special. The two states organize an area as best suited to them in order to facilitate their own and their own business. What's the problem? Often it's not the agreement and the law itself, it's the law enforcement. In Article 11. The Agreement provides that licences exist. Each competent state authority and both parties issue those permits, by probably sending the permits issued by your ministry to the state authority in Russia, they give you back a number of permits and if someone wants to transport goods to Russia or from Russia to Serbia, asks their competent ministry or the state authority for permits and thus works. However, the experience of how it works in Serbia is very bad, Mr. Minister. I'll only give you one example of how it works with the CEMT licenses. It's about permits that are valid for a year, a month, etc. There are certain contingents, among other things, even from Russia. The problem is that only certain carriers, I can say privileged, can have those permits. It gives me the right to doubt that will be the case with these permits from the Russian Federation. That is right, public talks are that "CEMT" licences in the winter period cost 200 to 300 euros, and in the summer period even a thousand euros. It's about thousands of permits. Apparently, whoever's talking to your ministry is saying they don't have any more permits and it's all been issued. People were asking a little questions. They don't just have the privilege of asking the other side what it is. On the other hand, they answer that Serbia currently has, for example, a thousand "CEMT" licenses, that as soon as they spend some of those permits, they will get new ones and ask themselves why we don't spend them. That's the problem, because the one who got the permits from your ministry wasn't taking them to transport the goods, it was taking them to trade. And no one can convince me that he could have done it alone without one of your associates. Make sure you do. Imagine this situation now, Mr. Minister. Someone buys a car, a truck, a tow truck, we don't go in what it is, he didn't buy it to keep it in the yard, he didn't pick up the loans, he bought it to work, to earn something, to hire people. Someone opened a drive, which, for example, was export-oriented, just to hire people, to work, to earn both for themselves and for themselves. Then there's a couple of punks out here who want to, without the money invested, make money. And everyone's in harm's way. He also suffers from the truck, he suffers from the goods, because he cannot transport the goods to his buyer, suffers both the goods themselves and its curtility on the market, because the racket paid to those who have the privilege of obtaining a license is not included in some profit, and then the development, the export brake, increases our famous deficit, we raise new loans. I'm not talking about the little things here. Most of our goods we export are road traffic. We don't have that kind of railway infrastructure, waterways, etc. That it could go the other way. So we're holding back our own development. Mr Minister, what about what the EU insists on all the time to resolve as a question of corruption? I don't doubt you, but I'm sure your associates are misusing your trust and the powers you've given them. That's why, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to forget about your comrades and friends at the ministry. You are a minister there, and I would like you to treat your associates who are not doing their job as well as you did in 1999 and 2000 with the country's rebuilding workers. Also, I'd like you to check all of this out, and it won't be a problem because you know who's been issued the 'CEMT' licenses, who used them and who haven't been used, because many car carriers weren't ready to pay for the racket, they didn't get paid. If someone picks up an example, works 100 or 200 permits and uses half of it, then they should never get a license again. I'd like you to discuss the situation as soon as possible, if possible tomorrow morning, and let people finally do what they've invested in, make money for them, make money for their workers, and the state will get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61861	Seven minutes have been used and 15 seconds Word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61862	Now you've given me good cream. In fact, the Ministry of Infrastructure works about 100,000 people, 25 thousand works in travel companies, those who work, build and maintain roads, 25 thousand works in the transport sector, which is about 8,000 companies, all private, with about 25 thousand workers, 25 thousand works on railways, and 25 thousand works in water, air and other traffic. All these people are keeping their lives alive. I get transporters every week. They're the barometer of our economy. I didn't answer to Mr. Mirovic before, but now I tell him – almost 65 to 70% of our exports in truck traffic are going to Russia today. It's a confirmation of what you're saying. So these are great people who are fighting in the market and are contributing about a billion euros to our country's total income, transporters. "CEMT" licenses, they're international licenses, you know that well, I think Mr. Avramovic doctored on it. These are permits that there are about 1200, we've been fighting for so many that are given for a year and that transporters are used to transport in the year. 800 and some transporters got those 1200 permits, got it. There's no corruption here, and there's no dinar. If there's a trade between them, that's what Mr. Dacic is in charge of, I have nothing to do with it. It's not exactly the story you've bought, unfortunately you too, that the ministry is trading, that there's no trade. It was never before because one of the people who was, I kept all the assistants from the previous government, so from the government of Velija Ilic, only that man resigned, in March 2009, is not today either. Of course, needs are higher. Individual licenses, if you've talked about them and today we've received 1,000 individual permits from the Russians, we've already shared 550 and the rest is divided according to how it works in the ministry, what are the protocols of the ministry. Absolutely everything that's going on in the ministry is controlled by the people on the base, so those who are transporting. Even three percent of the permits I had as minister of emergency situations in the military, police, etc. I let them share it. Therefore, it is not true, I once again confirm, information and misinformation that any of my associates abuses that function and makes corruption, but of course, I am responsible, no one else does what my associates do. That's what I'm saying, and that's what I'm behind. So, as far as individual permits are concerned, there are, as many as there are today, and they generally meet the needs of our transporters. As far as CEMT is concerned, there are 400 in reserve, standing in my drawer. So far, we've only given you twenty-something this year. Those permits are shared only if one of the transporters loses, or God forbid, steals a truck or something else happens, but they're only on police records, where it happened they can get a backup permit. So there's absolutely no possibility, I'm saying this for all the other segments in my ministry, that this kind of corruption occurs, but of course what happens to the permits when they leave, that's now a question, I repeat, which is not for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61863	The word has a folk MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I would like in some way to continue here where Mr. Master Mirovic has circled the continent when it comes to the position of the SRS towards the ratifications of the agreement, above all the amended Free Trade Protocol with the Russian Federation, but I will also talk about the other two agreements in this package that we have on the agenda today. I am sorry that I cannot talk about some other areas, such as the ratification of the Convention on Citizenship, but I simply want to return to the right track because of the whole euphoria that came about Serbia's EU bid yesterday, i.e. to get candidate status, and yet to the only right path that promotes the SRS and those 54% of voters who are as explicit as we are against the EU for the sake of the well-being of the Serbian economy and the future of our children. In addition to this amended protocol on free trade, I will also talk about ratification of the Agreement on International Road Traffic, as well as about the Agreement on Tourism, which is also not insignificant to the Serbian economy. As for what Master Mirovic was talking about, you know Mr. Mrkonjic, that he is a man who deals with science and a man who is still modest when it comes to his knowledge of the Russian political and economic situation, which is why he also said that he will not use the opportunity here today to interfere, but I must tell you that absolutely everything as a publicist in some public journals, including in our party newspaper "Great Serbia", has announced to the Fund strategic culture, having in mind this relationship and the relationship between political, economic and Russia is absolutely true, and I am going to support it with some more evidence today, i.e. arguments from some other sources and my personal knowledge. I'll start with what he announced, which is the production of cars at the Fiat factory in Kragujevac. Since this amended protocol provides the possibility of exporting motor vehicles and here is defined by the customs tariff of this protocol, which are motor vehicles for the transport of passengers, etc., only to exclude the van of the vehicle and then return to Djurđevdan on 6 May 2008 and pompous and false speech, as it lied to all Serbian citizens Boris Tadic and Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. At that time, they, I can almost quote in Kragujevac, when signing the Memorandum with the "Fiyat" said it was a strategically important project for Kragujevac, for all of Serbia, because a new car that will "Fijat" produce in my city will be able to export in a huge number to a wide Russian market. That's not true, Mr. Sojg told you, you probably met with him several times personally, because as a member of the SPS and as a minister of the government that we signed together and here, remember, I was then a federal MP on 12 April 1999, ratified the Agreement, that is, our commitment to make an alliance, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with Russia and Belarus, so they told you, and also Vladimir Putin, Prime Minister and future President of the Russian Federation, on a visit to Parliament here, on the issue directly to Mr. Dinkic, that this is impossible, because Russia, under the free trade agreement, cannot accept such a car, nor any product whose total production sector contains a minimum, or more than 50% of the components, or original products from Serbia. The new model to be produced in Kragujevac and that's on a long stick, when it starts, there's no trial model, the question is, you know who's going to be able to buy it, because that basic model is going to cost 12,000, the one with the equipment that would say 17,000 euros is really problematic for a number of reasons, and only now, I'm going to tell you -- there's not gonna be a single piece of this free trade agreement to be exported to Russia if that's the question, on the Russian market, would it go like that, if the Russians wanted to buy it. It's an absolute copy of "Fiat of Idea", you know what that car looks like, on the same platform it's made, and it's roughly "Fiat Bravo" similar, but this "Fiat Lazero" that's going to be called a new model from Kragujevac, and some middle class is simply a copy of this car that "Fiat" exports to the American market, but it's experienced a complete debacle there. Last time I told Djelic that Americans, like in Hollywood movies, hired George Clooney to be the promoter of the "Fijata Idea", but there's a disastrous sale of this model, that he cannot be exported to Russia, the following data will be produced by all the electricity in the company "Manjat Marelli" and that company should have its production in the Kragujevac area. You remember that affair with an attempt to kidnap the country's peasants, now it's being moved to another location, but it's really a question of when it's going to be, so, from the beginning when this model starts to produce will be the electronics components from the Fiat Marelli. As far as the glass is concerned, Filkinton is a manufacturer of glass, as far as the engine is concerned, Phiat manufactures motors, as far as the gallantry, Phiat produces gallantium, as far as the oil is concerned, of the base engine in that car, produced by Selmia. As for the tire, it does not produce factories in Kruševec, because it has not yet entered the test process, and you know what kind of affair is going on there, and that is what our MP Duvnjak said, it will produce the company "Bridgeston". No single piece will be produced in Serbia, and then it was a pure lie and deception, which was supposed to be the main driver for the development of the Kragujevac and the entire Serbian economy and co-operatives who were supposed to hire at least, as Kragujevac Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic, 10,000 people at the time. A lie, a deception, that's nothing. Let's see what's up with this and why according to this exact data that Master Mirovic made, it's such a bad external trade exchange between Russia and Serbia, that is why Serbia is at a loss, and this is the data that I have. That's the data for the first five months of this year, she had a loss of $784.4 million. We are not able, or the state will not help this ruined Serbian economy that what is produced here and what we have, and above all I mean agrarian and food products and raw fruit and vegetables, we place on a large Russian market. The problem with my fruit trees in Šumadia, in the chacan neighborhood of Mr. Munjic and all over Serbia is that the state will not help farmers, organise themselves, but they must do it themselves. You know the case, Vinca is at Topola, between the Arangelovec and Topola where one ice-fridge owner does it all by himself for a group of peasants, or fruit farmers there, and they bend and do it in every way possible. There is an opinion that we, with these euphoric heads that are for Serbia to enter the EU, who take away KIM and whose soldiers are killing and trying to shoot again Serbian civilians, that our goods have passages on the European market, no, but they are in Russian. In order to export goods to the Russian market, you do not need certifications such as the ISO and that, and other, how they view the EU's strongest member states through a microscope, but that is why the GOST certificate, which is the only one looking for the Russian Federation and how easily it can be obtained. The only problem is that, which is said by the people of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, who say it is necessary that the state of Serbia, if it wants to speed up and help export to the Russian Federation, opens up almost a representation here in Serbia. Then the procedure for taking samples would go much faster. So far, as far as the food industry is concerned, only two companies have been able to achieve, among them, the Carnex, which has received both the paste and all other meat products, for meatmeal, for tea sausage, but ask yourself, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since you are a man who remembers that time why there can be no single product of the Red Star factory from Kragujevac, the meat industry on the Russian market. You know that that liver pâté in the Red Star factory factory Kragujevac, not only in Russia, but in the whole world, had a huge pass, or that product was looting all the markets, especially Russian. Those factories are gone. These tracks when Vlahovic came and this whole team came and when you were their opposition, after 2000, they wiped out the meat industry factory in Kragujevac. There's nothing left, the workers lost their jobs and what to hope for. If this were true, that, Mr. Novakovic, the foreign trade agreement with the Russian Federation would be abolished has been confirmed today by Deger, who was in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At 10:30 today, we had a Committee on European Integration. I'm not a member of that committee, but I got a call from the vice president of the Assembly to go there and chair the menus eventually gave me a word. They were such praises, as if you were watching these state media, Mr Mr. Mrkonjic, from Mrs. Trivan via Mrs. Vukkovic, so I guess they thank him for taking away Kosovo and Metohija, tearing up the country and killing and shooting Serb civilians at Jarinj who defend the century-old Serbian country, but then, when I came to talk about it or not to talk about this Nikolic who, you saw last night, has no answer to any questions, and as I told Dežero today, this great friend of yours, Tomislav Nikolic, whom you gave together with Tadic, or stole the mandates to the Serbian radicals, now serves you perfectly as a rag and continues such a dirty policy conducted by Boris Tadic. To my particular question... (Chairman: Please give me a little... Mr. Novakovic, just focus on this, you'll find it very interesting, you've been chairing, I haven't been able to convince you of this dialogue with Deger. So, that moment... (President: The number of dots is so big that you can really do a wide procedure, very toleranceal, but... ) Don't take away my valuable time because you will certainly not be in Europe, and by that time, the EU will fall apart when Serbia comes to order. Mr Mr Mrkonjic, when I specifically asked Dežer today, answer me without euphoria and all of it, you can do so with them and Nikolic to celebrate and to open champagne, specifically ask you, in case Serbia enters the EU, don't give God what the SRS is up against, I had to tell him that as a Serbian radical, I represent majority Serbia because 54% of Serbian citizens will not enter the EU, and this percentage will be that it climbs from month to month, I specifically asked him if it happens, and yet I have to tell him because there are also in EU countries, and I had to explain it to him because I am together with my colleague Radet and Mr Todorovic now at the Council of Europe's meeting that the MEPs not only see that they are Eurosceptics but they want their countries to come out of these freak formations, and then I say, Mr Dežer, if they will never, however, will do everything not happen, he looks at the same way, that I say that they are going to the only to Serbia. Do you know what he said to me? He won't. How did he explain that? By saying that when one member joins the alliance, everything she had until then has been erased, as he said, is being drawn, and only what Mr Mirovic was talking about, which is the application of the single customs rate, and at that moment the citizens of Serbia must know that there, besides that, they are taking away our children, what they are killing our country, which is now moving on to the Raška area, which tomorrow will be Vojvodina, you will destroy Serbia's economy by chasing into that Europe that doesn't want to do us any good, and Dežer himself protects his own interests and wants to promote what is their goal, which is to destroy the Serbian economy, to wake up why they buy and take away our resources. The next is the EPS, and you know how it's going. I'm going to end up with what's strictly your portfolio and what you mentioned in one context earlier, which you might be able to take, and I think that's logical. It's an SRS proposal, so think about it. So, when it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic, that we are not, and I believe that you will have approval from the Russian side because they really want only good Serbia, this Euro-Asian union with Belarus and Kazakhstan, you will see, in the future, they will show all their strength, that is what Putin is up for, you should launch an initiative to lift these licenses for trucks, or for transport, so that you should not need those 1,000 permits from the Russians but rather when we have a free trade agreement to go to it. I think you'll have an understanding from the Russian side. What do we need the permits for? For these EU countries, even some exist, and what are we exporting there? It's just the stuff that's being dragged in. I think it's a logical suggestion on our part. I'm sorry I can't talk about what my original profession is, which is tourism, because we have ratifications of this agreement here, but I just have to say with regret that the whole exchange between Russia and Serbia is about tourism and the arrival and departure of guests is about enthusiasm or the pawning of one man, which is the owner of a travel agency. Indeed, this is not an order of advertising, I am saying from experience and knowledge of this, "Er Tours" from Belgrade with representation in Moscow, Mr. Ratko Cetakovic, who makes all the efforts but really as a man of profession and who has long been our representative and director of Jugoturs in Moscow, now has a representative of his agency to bring the number of tourists to Serbia. Of course, there are a lot more people who only have transit here and go to Montenegro, which is because we still don't have opportunities, and we also advocate developing Banish tourism and offering them all the beauty that Serbia has. After all, a few days ago, when it was the birthday of the Russian prime minister, Mr Putin, we wanted him to come to Serbia for a long visit and visit some of the Serbian beauties, such as Tara and Kopalnik, because he loves our people very much and is eager to get to know our people even better and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61865	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61866	Let me cheer up my colleague Natasha. Next Friday, therefore, the 21st meeting of the Black Sea Initiative is held in Moscow when Serbia will take over, so I from Mr. Lebitin, the minister of traffic in Russia, chairing the institution for the next year. The second thing, on November 14th, Mr. Vuk Jeremic and I are going to Kazakhstan to establish the necessary relations for the transport initiative that our transporters drive goods from Western Europe to Kazakhstan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61867	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, of the thirty points of the agenda in this united debate, as well as my colleagues, I have chosen to talk about points 23 and 24. It's about environmental laws. Before I say anything about this agreement and the law, it will certainly be interesting for the Serbian public to know that the Environment Protection Committee has not considered this law, too, as it has not considered budget rebalancing in the area of environmental protection. For our unknown reasons, the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection for several months, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, who is known as the opposition MP and head of one parliamentary party, does not find it appropriate to appoint a Committee on the Protection of the Environment, but this speaks a lot about him, talks about his opposition functioning. When it comes to laws, when some explanations are to be heard from ministers who very rarely appear here in the Assembly, these committees are not maintained. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, despite your goodwill, I do not expect you to be an adequate talker on these two issues, and that is completely understandable, but it is completely incomprehensible that Mr. Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and in the latest position of this government and mining are not appearing in the Assembly for months, nor does he intend to explain anything to the MPs of the Republic of Parliament about the legislative proposals that are on the agenda, and he may not even know that these laws are on the agenda. It is very symptomatic when a law that has 30 members and four chapters, we hear nothing about that law, not a word from the minister, not a nice word, or what's wrong with that law. This first law, paragraph 24, which speaks of the confirmation of the protocol on the release registers of the transmission of polluting substances, speaks of the availability of information, the participation of the public and the decision on the right to legal protection in environmental matters. It's a legal one that's technically perfectly fine and that's correct, because it's not written with us, but it's about an international document. In Section four, Mr. Minister, if you look closely, you're talking about financial assets and obligations to enforce this law, you'll find it in the third row to talk about a minimum of two million dinars. So we're talking about the minimum, not the maximum. That's a very stretching term. It seems to me that sometimes there are odd figures, such as those agreed service figures in the budget. The public of Serbia and we MPs need to know what it is, if we know what the minimum is, to know what the maximum is, and whether that maximum is 200 million or 50 million or maybe a billion. We don't see it from this thing. Now something about an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of the environment. This topic is very interesting, and it was interesting this summer, because about half of August there was some very interesting information that aroused the Serbian public. In a small place near Loznica, it is Zajaca, there was an increase in lead levels in preschool and school children's blood. Of the 47 children tested in the village of Zajac, 25 found an increased level of lead in the blood. It's unusual because there's a recycling plant that works in that place. It is the power plant "Farmacoma", a private company from Sapac, owner of Miroslav Bogicevic, where old worn-out batteries are brought, plastics, acid found in them and lead is dissolved and sent further to processing, probably in the power of the battery in Sombor, where the owner is also Mr. Bogicevic. When that information about the increased level of lead appeared, I asked Mr. Dulic to give me an answer to some questions. Among other things, in answer to my questions, there is an interesting part that says this – due to the lack of waste lead used in 2010 as raw materials, lead concentrate, lead oxide, which is exported from Turkey, Bulgaria, Albania and Australia. Now you see what it's important to talk about this protocol on environmental co-operation between our country and Turkey, and that's good. This drive, I received the necessary documents from 2007, so on June 5, 2007, the drive was agreed to a study on environmental impact assessment of the project reconstruction of the production plant and reconstruction of lead generation and refining. Mr. Minister, my colleague, Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic, showed you a document, which dates back to 18 March 2011. In this document, Minister Oliver Dulic amends the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment and instructs environmental inspectors and competent authorities to issue licences at all levels and is directed to local self-government, city administrations, AP etc. In one part, it is said: waste storage and hazardous and non-hazarding do not require a study of environmental impacts. In 2007, you had this study that was mandatory, and in 2011, Minister Dulic did so. Then what are we importing into the state of Serbia? You can see how quickly the answer arrived from March 18th to August half arrived quickly at the answer to the derogation of the law. An increased level of lead in the blood of children in Zajeca, the answer arrives very quickly. Now we need to talk about responsibility, and when we need to discuss these issues and when we need to ask the minister to give us an answer, he is not in the Assembly. What does Article 1 of this Agreement say? In order to reduce Article 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on environmental co-operation, with a view to reducing environmental pollution and ensuring the sustainability of the environment, natural resources and biodiversity, while balancing their protection and use processes. Is that how the environment is preserved? That you don't need one strategic document. Is that a dangerous waste or not? Is that a warehouse near the school? To take action on the health of the youngest inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia and to have no responsibility, probably Mr. Minister, dealing with mining too much, went too deep into some pit, and then there is no real signal of what is happening in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61869	Thank you. This time is scheduled for the DSS hearing to be exhausted. The word is from the People's MP Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing some 30 draft laws, which mainly concern the granting of guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then confirming some agreements, protocols, contracts and conventions. In this group of 30 proposals, I would refer to one of the agreements signed by representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia in Budva on 14 April 2010. As usual, the anti-Serbian government does not sign harmful contracts and agreements only in the areas of finance, economy and other economic branches, but also in the area of security of citizens and the state of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party is not generally against signing an agreement in the area of security, but it believes it must be done on an even basis and globally, but the agreement signed in Budva on 14 April 2010, which has some code, a label, really do not know that I define it, and it is called "Racviac", it is probably abbreviations from an English agreement signed and the agreement represents the highlight of the issue of the government. Let's see what's really going on. In the preamble of this agreement called "Racciac" – the Centre for Security Cooperation, the preamble reads the following – calling for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a regional assistance centre for the implementation of an arms and verification agreement in Zagreb on 8 March 2008. From that period to today, only the Republic of Italy has concluded and signed this agreement, August 21st 2002 and Turkey, September 15th 2004. Let's take a look at what this agreement represents. In Article 1 of point 2 of the said Racviation is the legal succeeding regional aid centre for the implementation of the arms and verification control agreement established between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a regional aid centre and the implementation of an arms and verification agreement, which was made up in Zagreb on 8 March 2001. Point 3 says that this security co-operation centre is an international independent non-profit regional academic organisation. Please tell me now how international this organization is, if we have here, of the four states that are signatories of this agreement, three particularly anti-Serbian moods towards the Serbian people, in general, let alone Serbia. Here we have one Turkey, which today is including its fingers in one part of the Republic of Serbia. Some call her Sandzak, and we call it the Raska area. Germany has more than 100 years of desire to go across Serbia to the Mediterranean and Dardanella. We'll be trampled on for the night. With Croatia, I imagine you understand how much Croatia respects international law, especially the rights of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it cannot be an international organisation, for the simple reason that very few countries are involved here. On the other hand, if it's international, why isn't there a Russian Federation here, why aren't there a little more of those friendly states of ours? If they say it's regional, then it should, as the text goes on -- Southeast Europe, I don't know what Germany has to do with it? But, academic organization, it doesn't seem normal to me, that they should be doing weapons control. In Article 3, on these activities, it relates to promotion. Point (a) says dialogue in the area of security and security sector reform, weapons control, which I really don't know how they can implement this. How will the control of the weapons be carried out? Will Turkey allow us to control their weapons, the number of soldiers, the technique, etc? Will Croatia allow us to do so, especially Germany? Let's just go home and see if we were even right to accept a deal like this. Point b) says: synergy with other organisations and institutions, such as NATO, the EU and the OSCE. I suppose you understand that this organisation intends to attract Serbia to the small door, through various other forums, in the NATO Pact. You know very well what the SRS is and about the EU, as well as about the NATO Pact. It's one, and you know it yourself, a criminal organization of international character. Finally, to give my colleague Marić some free space, since he would talk about this and other things, I would like to stress that in Article 19, the headquarters of this organization is in Croatia. I guess now you're even clearer on who's the driver of this agreement. It is said in Article 20 – it will have the ability. It is likely a bad proposal, likely to have powers, to conclude agreements, and to refer to this organisation, and to participate in legal proceedings, including the procurement and alienation of immovable and mobile property. Does this mean that one day this organization will make a decision and say – Serbia does not need planes. We'll confiscate those planes. Does that mean they'll confiscate the General Staff building or the Department of Defense, some barracks or anything else? Does that mean that the extra weapons will have the right to take away and put it on a market and sell it? I don't think this agreement the Serbian Parliament should accept, that it must reject it. Be sure the SRS parliamentary group won't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61871	Thank you. National MP Bojan Mladenovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I will speak for a few minutes about the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of France. What is first in the proposal for this law in Article 1 is to confirm the agreement between these two republics on strategic partnership and co-operation, which was concluded in Paris on 8 April this year. I ask the government - from 8 April to mid-October, why does it take a whole six months for this agreement to be adopted in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia? I'll tell you that the Government of the Republic of France did this a few months ago. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers this agreement important, that it is important for the citizens of Serbia, I ask the question why is it waiting for a full six months? It takes half a year to get into the procedure and before the Assembly, and it goes to this session by emergency procedure, and from April to the day today, you haven't put it in the previous sessions that were so far. The agreement itself states that there is a desire to give a new boost to the relations of friendship and trust that unite these two states. I ask a question – what trust? What kind of friendship can we have with the Republic of France? When did the Republic of France show this friendship to the Republic of Serbia for the last time? I remind you that the Republic of France has recognised the independence of KIM. In 1999, the Republic of France participated in the bombing of Serbia and Serbian citizens. Then where does that trust one of those states come from? In Article 2. The agreement states that the co-operation referred to in Article 1 of this Agreement may take place in the following way. Item 3 says – participation of civil servants of the Republic of Serbia in charge of European integration in training organised in the Republic of France. I ask the question - who will pay for the departure of these civil servants of the Republic of Serbia? What kind of training is that? What will they be trained for when they return to Serbia? What kind of title they will have when they complete their participation in EU integration training. Article 3 states – the parties strengthen political dialogue on the issues of the common foreign policy and the common security and defence policy of the EU. How will Serbia participate in defence security in the EU's defence security policy. Remember that he was almost the president of the state who said Serbia would never war, that Serbia would not fight even when it comes to KIM. What are we getting here now? That Serbia will defend the EU? It's just amazing. Is that what we're interested in? Is that more important to us than Kim? Article 4 paragraph 3 says – strengthening bilateral co-operation in the area of urban infrastructure, especially the realisation of the Belgrade Metro project. If France was our strategic partner, Serbia is following the signing of a statement of intent between the Serbian-French government and the city authorities of Belgrade, which would include mutual acceptance and harmonisation of the metro modality project. What's the problem with this project? Problem is, it's not a subway. I don't know if you've read how much you've read about this project, but you know what the subway means. Metro is an independent rail system, integrated with all other types of traffic – with trams, buses, pedestrians, cars, etc. What does Belgrade offer, or this agreement? It offers us a streetcar with a pass-by championship, which will go from the corner of Ustitska and Bulevar to the wolf's monument. The Wolf's monument goes underground. And then he becomes a subway. What's the problem? From the corner of Ustitska and Bulevar, to the wolf's monument, he is going to take the highlands and will reportedly be independent of other types of traffic. All other types of traffic will depend on the subway, because when it passes all the way to the left and to the right of the Boulevard it must stop, both cars and trams and buses and pedestrians, all the streets must be closed to go to Cvetko's market, going to the City Hospital, going to Geram's market, going to the Wolf's monument, and that whole part of the city has to stop to pass that so-called. The subway. It has nothing to do with the methroom, it's a simple street tram with a passing championship. Where's he going next? When it moves to New Belgrade, it goes down the streets of Milenti Popovic, and then goes to Bulevara Avnoja or Bulevara Mikhail Pupina to the factory street in Zemun. What's the problem? The same project says that Belgrade, for Serbia, is expensive to build tunnels across New Belgrade, allegedly due to wetlands, because of sandy land, etc., so it will go all over the country. What's going to happen there? Imagine all those boulevards when they suddenly have to stop to get past the subway? Bulls who are before Arena, after Arena, and all the way to Zemun. The whole of New Belgrade has to stop to pass that streetcar. They call it this project methroom. It's got nothing to do with the methroom. Metro is something that Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia need, which is why everyone agrees, but the metro is a real underground, one rail system that exists in all European cities. At this point in Europe, more than 60 cities are now digging tunnels for real European subways. What else is the problem? How do you motivate citizens who come to Belgrade to leave their cars and sit in the subway, and they need a good underground garage on the corner of Ustaška and Bulevar, to sit in the subway and take a ride to New Belgrade in 10-15 minutes? If they're going to travel for half an hour or 40 minutes, what effect? How are you going to motivate these people? No way, everybody's gonna take the cars again. This streetcar, projected by this project, can carry only 15,000 passengers in one hour, and makes a metro of 45,000 passengers in one hour. This tram, which is planned for this project, can go at a speed of 32 kilometers per hour, and makes a metro 43 kilometers per hour. What is also important is that every expanding city has a subway upgrade. Normally, when he's an underground man, you can always upgrade him at different levels. When this one's a super-earth, there's no room for upgrades. Look in Moscow. There are 12 subway lines in Moscow, but there's one ring and all the subway lines are poured into that ring and they're all connected. What will you do in New Belgrade when he goes above ground? What are you going to do in Boulevard when it goes above the ground? You can't tear down all the surrounding buildings to build on it. It has nothing to do with the subway project and it's not the subway or the subway characteristics. Then they say, we don't want this subway because it's expensive, because it's been built for a long time, etc. A general urban plan in Belgrade in 1950 envisioned a subway. We've been waiting for him for 60 years, so we'll wait for him for another 10 or 20 years, but give the right metro, the way it should be for the people of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. In 1863, London built a subway by system -- cut and dig. They make a hole, they put the tracks, they build a tunnel, they bury the tunnel, and they're done by the subway. 150 years ago. What about modern technology? After 150 years, can't we make one metro in Belgrade? What will be Belgrade's metropolis if it can't build one metro? Dr. Mihailo Maltin, professor of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, and Branislav Jovin, a member of the Serbian Academy of Architecture, are experts who worked and built New Belgrade on wetland and sandy soil. For years, they have been working on a Belgrade Metro project and for years the city of Belgrade has allocated funds, several million euros in a real Belgrade subway. Now it's all thrown in the water. They don't listen to themselves anymore. Serbia's Academy of Architecture, which has 27 university professors and seven science doctors, is no longer listening, but simply officials in Belgrade are doing what they think they should. This is what will bring great trouble to the city of Belgrade and Serbia because of borrowing, because of the huge funds that will be spent on this streetcar, which will have absolutely no characteristics of the real subway that Belgrade really needs. Also, this agreement obliges Serbia to buy everything from them, rails, wagons, absolutely everything for as long as the subway is built. My people, isn't it cheaper when we buy in a tender to spread public procurement? We are obliged by this agreement to buy everything from the French firm absolutely in the next period. It'll cost all of us dearly. Also, they calculated that the subway would carry 15,000 passengers in an hour. They came to that number by saying – the car is that width, the car is that length, there are so many cars, for so many minutes it will go, 600 passengers can drive in one wave and reach 15,000 passengers within an hour, and with the density of six passengers per square metre. Meter square, that's all you got. Now, you explain to the citizens of Serbia, who's normal here and who's crazy? Six passengers per metre square to transport the subway? Where are the hands? Where are the chairs? It means that there must be ten passengers per square metre in the standing area to get this average out, as these experts from Belgrade listed - six passengers per square metre from France. My people, that's insane. On each other's locusts to stop will not be filled with what you've stated. For the end, he says -- the reason for this law is, among other things, the agreement between Serbian President Boris Tadic and the President of the Republic of France, Nikola Sarkozy, who was signed in 2009, where it was agreed that France would become the state's protector and promoter of Serbia's EU membership. What's France doing these days? What did France do yesterday? Did she give a positive assessment of Serbia's EU bid? We're against it, but your government stands up for it, and France is holding back. Not only that, but also on many other issues, France is constantly holding back the government of the Republic of Serbia from carrying out some projects. Here, reportedly in 2009, an agreement was signed between Tadic and Sarkozy, where France is a promoter. What kind of promoter is that when he keeps pushing us and not giving the government of the Republic of Serbia to advance, to have projects, to have agreements like the citizens of Serbia deserve? Once again for the end, this agreement is extremely damaging. Belgrade will not get a metro, Belgrade will get an ordinary street tram with a passing championship, which will cost both citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens abnormally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61873	MP Dusan Maric. You've got 17 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61874	That's impossible. I'm sorry. Out of 66 minutes, the authorised representative spent his 20s, followed by Natasa Jovanovic, and Ljubisa Petkovic and Bojan Mladenovic. Natasa Jovanovic spoke for 17 minutes, Ljubisa Petkovic spoke for eight minutes, and Bojan Mladenov spoke for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61875	Right, 13 minutes. When Bojan Mladenovic started talking, he had 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61876	That's impossible, 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61877	When Ljubisa Petkovic spoke, he had 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61878	Just to see the list of speakers, I apologize. Natasa Jovanovic spoke as the first representative of the SRS and spent 17 minutes. Ljubisa Petkovic spent eight minutes. So 17 and 8 are 25. Bojan Mladenovic spent 13 minutes, and that's 38 minutes, and we have 66 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61879	Please, you were 68, 40, 30, 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61880	Excuse me, how did you get off at 68 to 40 if Natasa Jovanovic spoke first and spoke for 17 minutes? Only if you were counting on an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61881	When Mr. Petkovic started talking, he had 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61882	We had 50 minutes straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61883	Mr. Nikola Novakovic wrote. I'll believe you, but you can come see what it says. I believe you because you're all talking. So you don't have 17 minutes but 27 minutes. We'll check with Dr. Novakovic tomorrow, but I'm reading you what it says. Here you go, 27 minutes, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61884	Thank you. The agenda of this session is to confirm the Agreement with the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. We from the SRS warn that before the ratification of this agreement is adopted, some issues need to be clarified without whose clarification is not possible to implement this agreement in practice. First question: who's signing the agreements with who here? Does the Republic of Serbia sign the Agreement with the Old Republic of Albania, a country that is every day threatening the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia or with the virtual Republic of Albania, our friendly country, our good neighbour, as it says in this agreement, with Albania that exists only in this paper? That's not Albania. The second question is, which territory does this agreement refer to, or does it refer to KIM territory? I remind you that Albania has confessed to the so-called so-called state among the first countries. The republic of Kosovo and therefore Albania considers that the agreement between the two countries will not apply to the so-called. Kosovo's republic, but will only be applied to the territory of the rest of Serbia, as they call the Serbia crisis. If you ask Belgrade leadership, they will give you an interpretation that this agreement is applied throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The third question to be clarified is which people will be applied to? Will this agreement apply to Albanians or to the scepters, however, who live on KIM? If you ask these in Tirana, they will say that if you ask the government in Belgrade, they will say they will. It is necessary to clarify whether this agreement will apply to Serbs from Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic and Zvecan. If we ask the representatives of the government in Belgrade, they will, of course, say they will, it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If we ask these in Tirana, they will, of course, say they won't. Here, border crossings are mentioned as lines from which these agreements will be implemented. I ask the question where is this border line? Is this border line located on the Cef Prušit, is it located on the bridge on the Ibar River or is it perhaps on Brnjak, Jarinj and Merdar? I simply warn that it is not normal for two serious states to sign an interstate agreement on anything, especially this sensitive issue, and that they have completely different views on what this agreement refers to. It's just not understandable to common sense, it's totally silly. This is a colorful lie, a circus performance that the government in Belgrade and the government in Tirana performs to distract their own public and to sort of flirt with their sponsors in Brussels. As pointless as this agreement is, I'm going to show through the analysis of several members. The opening text of the agreement says "in a desire to further develop the already existing friendly relations between the two countries", the friendly relations between Albania and Serbia, I read this a few days ago, raised several issues. First question, who created and armed the Kosovo Liberation Army? From which country was land aggression committed against SRJ and Serbia in 1999? In which country has several hundred Serb soldiers and civilians been dismembered for the sale of organs? Which country constantly fuels ambitions to create a great Albania? I until a few days ago, until the government sent this agreement to the assembly procedure, I was convinced that it was Albania. Now I don't believe it anymore because Albania here writes to us an extremely friendly country, and friends don't make much smaller, let alone crimes like this. The next sentence: "confirming that respect and achievement of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the principles of democracy, the rule of law and humanism are the basis for freedom, justice and peace". It's like some excuse for signing this idiotic agreement. I ask the question – what about the human rights of several hundreds of families who are in vain asking for Albania to return the remains of their loved ones to them, who have been taken to Albania and killed there? What about the human rights of thousands of Serbs who have been exiled by KIM, and for 11 years their estates, their houses, their apartments are being used by citizens of Albania, without any legal basis and without any legal compensation? Article 6 "The citizens of each Contracting Party are obliged to comply with applicable regulations during their stay on the territory of the other Contracting Party. "Is there anyone in this room, is there a Serbian citizen who is watching this transmission that believes that there is a citizen of Albania who will come to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on the territory of Kosovo and respect this agreement? There's no one. Article 7. "Any Contracting Party may deny entry or terminate stay on its territory to nationals of another Contracting Party, which it deems unacceptable and undesirable" etc. Can Serbia deny staying in the territory of KIM and one citizen of the Republic of Albania? He can't. So, this agreement is a beating of empty straw, a dead letter on paper. The next item is the bill to confirm an agreement on a security co-operation centre in Southeast Europe. As my colleague Ljubisa Petkovic said, this centre is the legal successor of the Centre, founded by SR Germany and the Republic of Croatia on 8 March 2001, and later joined, very interestingly, all friends of the Serbian people to a friend, the Republic of Italy in 2002, and then an even bigger friend of the Republic of Turkey in 2004. I remind those who are forgetful that Germany and Croatia, which should worry about security in Southeast Europe, in the last 100 years in Southeast Europe have caused two world wars, three regional wars, have committed at least three genocide crimes, have caused wars that killed at least five million people in Southeast Europe, including three million Serbs. Be careful what it is absurd, what shame it is. All Serbian victims of Croatian wars and crimes have not yet been found and buried, and the Serbian parliament should vote that Serbia joins an organisation, an institution that will take care of its security, whose thigh is Croatia and whose headquarters is in Zagreb. It's offensive to common sense. For every normal itch, which has little brain, this is offensive. I don't know if you're aware of the law you're proposing. When you propose to Croatia and Germany to take care of peace, it is as if you trust a pyromaniac to store a gas station. When you trust Croats and Germans to care for the safety of Serbs, it is as if you task the Pope and the Vatican to care for the prosperity of Orthodoxy. It's completely insane stuff. Even if we agree to verify this agreement, and I have no doubt that this will happen through the will of the assembly majority, which is clearly considering daily political, without any national and state responsibility, you know what we would do – we would say to accept this agreement, to show that we are arms control, that we are for the development of a security system in Southeast Europe, but for principle reasons, for reasons of national and state self-esteem, we cannot agree to have the headquarters of that centre in Zagreb. Let's agree to have the seat in another, third, fifth, any country, but it can't be in Zagreb, it's really not normal. I can explain that to you by tomorrow. There are a million reasons, and now I'm going to give you a few. I remind you, and Serbian citizens know this, that Croatia is the organiser of the largest arms smuggling in Europe's newest history. Since 1991, Croatia has organised more than 100,000 Kalashnikovs from Hungary and other countries. It has not smuggled in to preserve peace and security, but rather to cause a series of wars in Southeast Europe, for the crime against peace, which, by international law, is the most serious crime, even more serious than the crimes of genocide. I remind you that at least 123 thousand Serbs, Croats and Muslims died in those wars, and at least 556 thousand were wounded by these peoples. Next, Croatia, which should worry about the security of the Serbian people from Serbia, carried out the largest ethnic cleansing in Europe after World War II, in which only Zagreb and Croatian cities were expelled at least... (President: How would you like to get back on the subject? ) Absolutely, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am in the topic. So, I'm talking about an agreement establishing a regional security control centre that needs to control security in Southeast Europe, the founder of Croatia whose centre is to be located in Zagreb. (President: Well, you have historical access... ) I now explain to you why for moral and state reasons it is unacceptable to have the headquarters of this centre in Zagreb, allow for three more minutes and I will finish. I won't be on your cargo. I remind you that Croatia cherishes the results of this ethnic cleansing. That's very important. You have no regional security unless you allow the exiled population to return to its hearth. Of the 500,000 exiled Serbs to Knin Krajina, 45,000 returned to Republika Srpska. The next Croatian state is a state where for several years the Ustasha party of Mark Perkovic – Thompson, what is called, is the biggest cultural music event. Next, I remind you, 15 days ago, at the time of the culmination of the crisis in the north of KIM, that Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor better hastened to go to Pristina to support Hashim Thaci, to encourage him to continue breaking the Republic of Serbia at the cost of causing a new Balkan war. The next thing, the Croatian prime minister, the same Adriatica Kosor, publicly declares that Croats, who are responsible for the murder of several hundred Serbs, cannot be war criminals because they are Croatian national heroes. As a confirmation that Jadranka Kosor is not speaking by heart because of the election campaign, the night before last, at midnight at the Knin Fortress, a magnificent fireworks with 54 torches marked by Croatia's 54th birthday of war criminal Ante Gotovina. And finally, as the last reason why we cannot verify these agreements, why this should not be done if we hold a little to the dignity of the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia, I remind you, while we are here discussing this, on the agenda of the parliament of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian Parliament, is a declaration declaring Serbia an aggressor in Croatia only because the Serbian prosecutor's office requires that several Croats who committed war crimes be prosecuted, the murder of several hundred Serbs. That is the only reason Serbia is declaring itself an aggressor. Indeed, I think it would be miserable, pathetic, nothing, I don't know how to qualify, that at the same time as the Croatian Parliament adopts this humiliating Ustasha declaration, the Serbian parliament adopts a declaration that decides to question its security, the issue of security of the Serbian people, the issue of security of Southeast Europe, trusts one centre whose founder is Croatia and whose headquarters will be in Zagreb. This would indeed be another in a series of national humiliations that this ruling coalition has staged for us, roughly similar to when Boris Tadic went to Zagreb and Sarajevo to apologize, on behalf of unsaved Serbs for crimes committed against Croats and Muslims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61885	I would just like to say that Mr. Novakovic apologized by mistake – he knows that Vice President Natasa Jovanovic spoke for 18 minutes, so your intervention was quite in place and I, of course, apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61886	I accept your apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61887	12 more minutes. Dobrislav Prelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this is all we're discussing today, we were supposed to discuss yesterday and you said you were going to ask for a statement from the ministry yesterday, which is why no one could come. It looks like the champagne was a little stronger, it was celebrating. I just don't know what was celebrated, given that the agreement with the Russian Federation was verified back in 2000, and you know it, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, very well. First of all, I want to ask this government, or DOS, by coming to power in 2000 -- what did they use from this agreement? They had it all on their palms. Because of their sick Euroentusiam, they have totally neglected, above all, the Russian Federation, with which we are the only country or state of West Karpat, which has a free trade contract. Instead of taking advantage of it in a quality way, we have turned to this sick Euroentusism that has literally brought Serbia to bankruptcy in the past 11 years. We had a chance to see and yesterday when it was celebrated, this opinion by the European Commission, which absolutely means nothing, so last night on shows where we were guests of Vensan Deger and the ambassador of Germany, where they literally said and normally Serbian citizens understood it. If that meant nothing, but if there was another condition for Serbia to start, it would generally get a date at the start of the negotiations, which is our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. When we're under occupation, when our southern province is under occupation some here drink champagne, I'm already Deger with a smile, but it seemed pretty depressing, possibly because there's no gay parade here in Serbia, so that's one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61889	You know what, you won't be able to speak that way and just don't worry about Parliament's dignity. It's not right, please, you know what politics and these countries are and you know that the government is running that policy that's in line with the documents we brought here, most of it. My voice and your voice are worth the same thing, it's not right, first of all, to abuse the agenda, not to use it, but to abuse it, don't talk about the points of the agenda. Secondly, you are dealing with the personal issue, his Excellency Deger, and you are playing with the feelings of Serbian citizens who estimate that yesterday is an extremely important day for Serbia, given that the opinion we received about the candidacy was indeed Serbia's interest and desire, the largest number of citizens. I agree with you that there is no reason for excessive euphoria, but your comments on drinking in the government, please, we weren't yesterday and we have official information on our work obligations. I don't think it's right that they didn't come to us, but I don't allow such a relationship with the government to be expressed by MPs, or the National Assembly. I ask you not to insult either the Ministers of the Government or Mr. Deger, and of course to express our views on the agenda point in which you have an unlimited right. Please don't put me in a position to react differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61890	Mrs. Djukic – Dejanovic, Mr. Dežer today, expressed his own regret over the unsustained gay parade, he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61891	Please, indeed, comment on this comment for the second time, that part of the sentence has nothing to do with the agenda point, and I would ask you to talk about the agenda points, or about the agenda, and that this content that I absolutely have no intention of interrupting is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I will have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61892	All right, today, EULEX and KFOR blocked administrative crossings in Kosovo and Metohija. And there is another fact, which I must say because of the citizens of Serbia, which is that the Hungarian Parliament today issued a statement that it will veto Serbia's negotiations, until a law on rehabilitation of public property is passed in Serbia. And now let's go back to these contracts, which is why the SRS feels that since 2000 absolutely nothing has been used when it comes to privilege with the Russian Federation. The fact is, first of all, the Ministry of Agriculture has no understanding for our agriculture. All our agricultural products are currently, or for the last ten years, under a great deal of pressure, one big monopoly, primarily here in Serbia. First of all, I mean big companies that dictate all the ransom prices, the Delta agrarian on Victoria Group, the MK commercial, the Agro fines, and our farmer was the best one in 2008 and 2009, when the Russians showed up on our market and bought our goods, whenever it comes to vegetables, whenever it comes to fruit growing. They come, look at the goods, the correct wages, which our peasant and our people would say – on the swamp, take the goods without any blackmail and absolutely with two certificates and one document on the origin of goods and goods goes away from here. But what's most important is that our producers are satisfied. Strikes were also in the case of subsidies, when normally the Ministry of Agriculture wanted to reduce subsidies, which is why the Agrarian Payments Agency was established, which is the only task of finding any reason to reject our producers and not pay off these subsidies. We are absolutely allowed here to export all our agricultural products. I mean, first of all, meat, that's what's in this contract, meat processing, cheese, milk, but there's one big problem, because in continuity over the last 10 years, everything's been permanently destroyed. Our stock fund, with a million cows in 2000, fell to 280 thousand. Also present is a monopoly, a trade lobby, behind which stands the World Trade Organisation and your friends from Washington. They are trying in every way possible and now to win the whole European market, to put pressure on them. That's what they're trying to do here in Serbia. That's what they're trying, first of all, through genetically modified food, which is so dangerous that it's just amazing that something like that is happening in Serbia, and we have the most fertile country, I guarantee, in Europe. Instead of turning to our traditional friends, people who want to help you and who are your friends, there's no way in hell for people who are the only ones who want to take advantage of you, to poverty you, which is evident in these last ten years. But be assured that the SRS will side with our agricultural producer and, as far as we can, we will come out with our new programme, to realize that it simply doesn't need to give more trust to DS and its coalition partners, because in the last four years, when agriculture is at stake, there's just been a collapse, no progress whatsoever, and that's the only economic branch in which Serbia is making a surplus, instead of investing. It's just that this government is acting deaf and it's not and there's no understanding. I'm asking you, do you know what the general interest is? The general interest in Serbia must be agriculture. Because when we achieve a surplus of over a billion euros, and I guarantee that it can be twice as much, just with a little bit more understanding, then there is simply no excuse for such a policy of the government and the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture. Make sure there are solutions to agriculture. I say again, we'll go out with concrete suggestions. We live in a country where there was a shortage of milk, a shortage of potatoes – just amazing. Amazingly, because of the agriculture ministry's policy, because of uncontrollable imports, and then the Ministry of Agriculture wants in some way to help our farmer with commercial loans. That's not gonna happen. It is known how to help agriculture, primarily subsidies, and how it used to work. But in addition to what our stock fund was destroyed, our processing industry, our dairy companies were destroyed. All that was recognizable in Serbia, you were absolutely able to destroy. I don't know what else it takes to come to your senses and start working in the interest of the citizens? These 11 years of sick ambitions for Eurointegration have given us opportunities to see yesterday what kind of response we got. It's just like those donkeys that run after carrots and get squishy at night. I'm convinced the citizens know all this. After all, all new research shows this, since for the EU 46% of our citizens, when against NATO the pact is 82% of our citizens. Be assured that citizens know all of this that they recognize and that they are not a little naive and that you will surely be punished for all of this. But what's very problematic is that we have a new political party on stage that was artificially created with the help of Boris Tadic and the EU, which absolutely has no programme and has absolutely no difference between this new party and the DS. Citizens certainly need to know that and recognize it, and they have the opportunity to see it in their public appearances. Once again I say and ask you – do you even know how to recognize the public interest? And finally, I would ask you, why do you not love Serbia and your people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61893	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61894	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, nothing easier today than being in the DS. All we need to do is think for ourselves, present facts as they are and love Serbia most in the world, and not another country and listen to the Serbian anthem "God of Justice" which, thank God, we have all heard here together at the beginning of this autumn session, and by common effort we have passed such a law. Little for those who are skeptical of life, and not for Europe, and for those who are great pessimists, and who are always a country more expensive than Serbia, a few facts, well, if the facts don't agree with your opinion, so much worse by the facts, but my obligation as a member of the DS and as a member of the People's Parliament is to present these facts. The trade between Serbia and Russia amounted to $880m in the first quarter of this year, and that is a very good 43% growth compared to the same period in 2010. This is good for both Serbia and Serbia's economy and Russia's economy, and it is good for the two countries to establish excellent economic co-operation. But it is a false fact that Russia is the largest foreign trade partner in exchange with Serbia. Why this incorrect fact is so placed, those who place it know. Exports from Serbia to the Russian Federation recorded an increase of around 70%. Its nominal value is 161 million dollars. And imports increased by 39%. We imported goods from Russia, mostly energy, for 718.5 million. We have a surplus or a negative $557 million balance. Russia is not Serbia's first export partner, Russia is Serbia's sixth export partner. I would like it to be the first one once and for us to compete in the export of our products and thank God we now have something to take out, because when some of us who are the loudest critics of these agreements had the opportunity to manage this country, we didn't have any for us, let alone for exporting. But in 2011, in Serbian exports to the Russian market were dominated by fresh apples, but not only agricultural products, but also by something, so we also exported external pneumatic tyres, floor coverings, floor coverings, batteries, copper pipes, something small and plump this autumn went to Russia and again I say – that's very good. Unfortunately, from Russia, we import only energy and imports of energy from Russia into Serbia are 80%. When we look at statistics, not only Serbia's Chamber of Commerce but also other relevant institutions, we will see that this positive trend, which was made in 2011 at this pace, only since 2009, when this country is managed by DS, SPS, PUPS, G 17 plus, this coalition majority and when we signed and liberalised a free trade agreement in April 2009. So this is what the DS has done with its coalition partners, not some others who are giving lectures today on what agreements should be adopted in this assembly. Let me just remind you that in Russia there are several Serbian-Russian companies dealing with the export of agricultural products and other products from Serbia to Russia. I'm not saying that because of you, because it doesn't mean anything to you. I'm not saying that because of those whose Serbia is a spare country. That's what I'm saying for the citizens of Serbia. We formed Krasnodar, Tanger, Magnit and Belgrade Kursk as a Serbian-Russian company for the export of our products to Russia. The biggest exporters from Serbia, right now in Russia, are Tarkett from Backa Palanka, Hemofarm from Vrsac, Farmakom from Sapac, whom you mentioned in a very negative light earlier, and I don't know why anyone who is successfully exporting to Russia bothers. I guess you'd be exporting something else from Russia, some other items that aren't good enough. I'm telling you that you should love our partners in the world and that you want them well, not that you want them bad. The copper and selenium cylinder is also a major exporter. The Tiger is a great exporter and so on, the Simpo from Vranj. Under the August 2000 free trade agreement, there are around 96% of the types of goods in the customs nomenclature with the trend of enlargement in the coming period. These are all the facts for which the ruling majority is represented, us and our coalition partners. When we talk about trade in goods with EU countries and those who have one great pessimism and one, I will not say sick, European cynicism, because it is a difficult classification, such as a difficult classification that someone tells us that we have a sick Eurooptimism. I have sound optimism because on sound grounds I love my country and all the countries of this world and all the countries of this world that I want to work with. I recommend that you turn to the future and turn to the future and find this love first in yourself, so that you do not offer the world our greatest faults as our greatest virtues, but those values that we have built together for centuries as a Serb people in this high home in the field, in the field, in the home, in the church, in the house, because we have much to offer the world and I don't know why you send such ugly pictures of Serbia to the world. Serbia is a beautiful country, has its own problems, but why do you always offer KIM to the world? Whenever someone speaks in this room and criticises the government, he says – here, Europe kidnaps KIM, Europe takes KIM, you simply offer KIM. This morning I asked you not for no reason. Is it your grandfather's or your father's father's father's, the Patriarchate, the High Decians, and thus you offer them to the world? No one's asking us for anything, no one's taking anything from us, and that's what anyone with ears has heard. Yesterday he could hear it, he could hear it today in parliament. No one's asking us to give up. We are being called into an orderly system and it is up to us and to the citizens of this country to determine whether or not we want to be there. Whenever you criticize the ruling majority, the first thing you put on the offer is KiM, as if it were your grandfather's, as if it were your father-in-law, as if the Peæku Patriarchy and Gracanica's grandfather had left you. It's not yours, it's not private property. (President: Mr. Milivoevich, to the agenda, please. ) When we talk further about the agenda, about Serbia's external trade with the world, we are overall making the volume of external trade of 12.97 billion euros. If you ask me, and I see that you don't know and you should ask and it's no shame not to know, but it's a shame not to listen to someone who knows more than you do when teaching you and when he advises you, Serbia's external trade with the world was 12.97 billion in the January-July period. Expressed in dollars, Serbia's total foreign trade exchange over the first seven months was 18.3 billion or 26.8% higher than in the same period in 2010. The goods were exported from Serbia about 4.75 billion euros or 21.6 per cent more than in January-July. Now I'm asking you how one destroyed country manages to make export by 21.6% higher when everything is so destroyed, it's all gone. Let's not do anything in this country, let's just whine, put the coward down as a national symbol of Serbia and just whine. Well, it's not so black, it's got nice, good things, it just needs to be brought out to the citizens. Unfortunately, export coverage with imports is not appropriate. Exports are much less than imports. In the structure of exports and imports are the most represented products for reproduction – 68.8%, wide-consumption goods – 23.8%, equipment – 7.5%. Foreign trade exchange, I will repeat that to you several times again, was the largest with the Member States of the European Union. So Serbia has the largest foreign trade exchange with EU member states, whoever wants to accept it or not, but that is not the case this year, not since 5 October, this trend in this country with this economy exists for many years. The most important agreement we have signed is the CEFTA Agreement. The CEFTA agreement has allowed us to exchange $851.7 million, mainly agricultural products, iron and steel, but if we are talking about other agreements that we have with the EU, I must tell you that our biggest export partners were Germany, Italy, BiH, Macedonia, Albania, Croatia and all other countries that you have yet to insult in the most ugly words, our partners where we sell our goods, and we do not sell our territory. We want to trade values with the world, trade goods. We want with the world of partner relations, not humiliating relationships. What's very important is what I want to tell you, the biggest deficit unfortunately was with the Russian Federation because of imports of energy, mostly oil and gas, then China, then Germany and Hungary. If we talk more about these numerical parameters that I don't want to bother you with but which are very precise, very exact, very clear for all people who want to hear and know, external trade with the world in Serbia is constantly increasing despite the economic crisis. Unfortunately, the only thing that is bad is the rate of imports and exports does not follow imports at an appropriate percentage, we have no coverage of exports and therefore we have major deficits with both China and the EU and with most countries from the world. Of course, I would also like to refer to several defence and security contracts in this country. The defence and security of this country, above all, defines the Constitution and neither the DS nor the ruling majority in this country will ever deviate from the constitutional principles, the constitution that we have all brought together. He's our first priority. Love for Serbia comes first for us. We offer no one anything, we care for the country as the Constitution binds us, but our patriotic feelings for that country. Finally, since you spoke very negatively of a metore in Belgrade, just to tell you once the time has come and we are not in power in Belgrade and Serbia, we will not load this new bridge on our backs, we will not load the bypass and take it to our homes, it remains for the citizens of Serbia. If our ancestors had talked about the railroad with this kind of skepticism, and I reminded you that it was about the railway at the moment when we in Serbia decided to build a railway, we would never have any railways, no electricity, no bridges, no channels, no power stations, no mines. Give a little more optimism, a little more faith, first of all, to yourself. I understand the fall, the poor election result, the pessimism, but put some faith in this country, faith in this people. Serbia, believe me, with you and without you. Better with you, all together if you want, but if you don't, the citizens will give you a red card, not DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-13-0.u61895	I thank the People's MP Milivojevic. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered, and there are no more who have not used their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure, allow me to conclude a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 9 to 37 of the agenda. We will continue our work on Monday 17 October 2011 at 10.00 hours. I thank you for your participation in the work. Goodbye.
