ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62679	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 78 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that 89 MPs are present in the electronic system and that there are conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? The People's MP Slobodan Samardzic has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62680	Dear People's MPs, respected members of the Assembly, today's media reports say a re-registering of a vehicle to KIM begins today, re-registering so much that Serbs will have to give up the tables they had so far with Serbian cities at the beginning, and to take UMNIK plates, such is at least the agreement of this dialogue. There's a number of questions opening up. I'm just gonna ask the government. But before that, I would like to draw attention to the next thing -- it is actually a way for Serbs to get used to independent Kosovo, those who live there, as well as us who live here to get used to independent Kosovo and Serbia itself and its government how to get used to independent Kosovo. What is trouble is that the government's representatives participated in this agreement, in fact, this dialogue is under the government's patronage and leadership. There's a big uncertainty at this point. Namely, it is not known how this reregistration will be performed. At the beginning of July, we were on the KIM Committee, when we received a report from Borko Stefanovic on the discussion, and when the subject of pre-registration and new ID cards was on the agenda, explicitly requested that we get the paper from that agreement, that he, as members of the KIM Committee and members of the Assembly, be informed directly through the document of what the agreement is, what is there and how these provisions on new registration plates, new ID cards, etc. will apply. Until today, we didn't get that answer and that paper. It was later seen, in terms of Kosovo's seal, Kosovo's customs, in which way it was dilettantly negotiated, when it was actually seen that our side did not know how Kosovo's seal would be used. It's a similar thing with these license plates and ID cards, later, which we'll probably talk about when they're supposed to apply. Namely, the question for the government, when we couldn't get that on the KIM Committee from our delegation's head of dialogue, is – what documents will Serbs have to apply, those Serbs who want to get the license plates of Umnik? That's what's completely uncertain. Will they be able with their existing documents, these are the documents of the Republic of Serbia, or will they have to draw Albanian documents first, and then raise these tables with which they will be able to move across Kosovo, according to the deal? Is the government even familiar with that? If so, we ask an urgent answer to that question, because it is very important for the Serbs in Kosovo to see if they first have to give up their identity and their identity cards from Serbia to get these tables for so-called. freedom of movement throughout Kosovo. I draw attention to the fact that such uncleared issues in this famous dialogue raise major conflict issues and that barricades in Jarinj and Brnjak and elsewhere in northern Kosovo are the result of such a kind of conversation, where things do not end, where they remain intentionally open and that they are left to the institutions of Kosovo, i.e. Albanian institutions to finish them. This morning, at RTS, we had opportunities to hear Interior Minister Bajram Rexhepi, who in Serbian calls on Serbs to take over plates reregistered for Kosovo. So, both our audience and public opinion are slowly getting used to the figures of members of the Kosovo government, Thaci's government, so that one day this independence, as far as we're concerned, will fall into the form of a mature pear. I draw your attention that the government has sinned several times about its citizens in Kosovo. She didn't give them biometric passports. There's no list of them. Now he's forcing them to take someone else's plates, and tomorrow he's going to make them take Albanian ID cards and finally recognise Kosovo's independence. This is a road without going back, and that is why we ask these questions so that through a clear congregation discussion, we can actually clarify what it is about. The government's main asset here is uncertainty, intransparency, so you'd like to say it. On purpose, the matter is unclear. Non-transparent so that in a spontaneous procedure, Kosovo would be recognised as an independent state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62681	Thank you. Before continuing our work and giving word to MP Boris Aleksic, allow us to welcome students of Roma nationality who enrolled in school in the first year of school in 2011, in 2012. This is Marijana Brankov, Smiljana Bogdanović, Roland Daniš, Nataša Davidović, Amela Demiri, Mirjana Francuski, Alen Išić, Sofia Jovanović, Olga Jovanović, Dragana Pokor, Velimir Marinković, Gordana Misković, Natalija Mitrović, Slavko Munšan, Emilija Nedeljkov, Marija Nikolić, Predrag Nikolić, Valentina Ristić, Enis Saitovski, Mara Nedeljković, Jelena Kostić, Želja Pavić, Željana Lalković, Željana Stevović, Željović, Roberta Vladzisavljević, Aelja Ristić, Stara Žaljević, Mirjavić, Mirjavić, Željić, Željna Željna Željaković, Željko Marković, Željko Željić Željić, Željović, Željović, Željović, Kalić, Žalić, Želj, Kalić, Želj Kalić, Kalić, Kalić, Kalić, Kalić, Kalić, Kalić, Kalić, K. Let's give them a round of applause. They'll follow up on our session. I now ask MP Boris Aleksic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62682	Thank you, Madam President, first of all, I am asking Mirko Cvetkovic and the Government when they will answer our common questions about Kosovo and Metohija and when more will the Government of the Republic of Serbia respond to the interpretation of the SRS concerning Kosovo and Metohija and the NATO Pact. Here, they've broken all the deadlines provided for by the Constitution and other regulations, and there's really nothing left to wait for. Today, we have two groups of issues that we are referring to, also Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Justice Minister, Minister Milan Markovic and Foreign Minister. When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia react due to frequent violations of human rights, Dr. Vojislav Seselj and other detained Serbs in The Hague Kazamat? When it will react, both in Serbia and the UN itself, because here, as you know from Friday, Vojislav Seselj has no more privileged communication, and this means that he has no help from his advisers and his Belgrade associates, not even the slightest technical assistance. So we can't send him any more faxes, no more documents, because he was unwarrantedly banned from the UN Secretariat of the Hague tribunal. This is a clear violation of the UN tribunal's very Statute but also of many conventions that protect human rights and indeed it is the right time for the government of the Republic of Serbia, after nine years of detention of Vojislav Seselj to say something. As you can see, representatives of the Russian Federation in the Security Council have already raised a question several times regarding human rights violations of Vojislav Seselj. In addition, we are asking the question, how long will the same officials of course, until the government of Serbia tolerate the abuse of The Hague tribunal by large Western forces? How could the government of the Republic of Serbia continue to remain silent, and so many citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in The Hague Kazamat, we said Vojislav Seselj had been in custody for nine years, and only half of the first-degree procedure was completed. Even the chairman, Judge Antonetti, said the world record of the length of the proceedings was broken when it came to Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and this is how Western forces abuse The Hague tribunal. I'll give you the sources of high-ranking UN prosecutor's office. Namely, in her book, Florence Artman, who was an adviser to Carla Del Ponte and her patron for the entire tribunal, states that in half of 1994, when the tribunal could finally begin its work, 22 officials of the Pentagon and the CIA, with all their equipment, arrived at the prosecution to assist him. "military analysts, lawyers in fact intelligence, were doing strategic jobs in the tribunal, serving their governments. "This is all a quote. The Anglo-Saxons have gained supremacy in the tribunal. Florence Artman also quotes Jamie Shea, a spokesman for the NATO Pact – be assured that we, the NATO Pact and the Tribunal, are one and I'm sure that then Luis Arbur, the chief prosecutor, will accuse only persons of Yugoslav nationality and no one else. Florence Artman, a former senior prosecutor of the prosecution, further explains that for the purposes of the prosecution and their assistants, a special military analytical team "At" was formed and says the following: Americans and the British have hurried to provide this highly qualified staff that allows them from a distance to control criminal prosecution strategies, stemmed from the best intelligence services and remained loyal to their governments. Military analysts were undoubtedly among the tribunal's most capable members. Florence Artman also states that the prosecutor in the case against Slobodan Milosevic, Jeffrey Najs, is a longtime British secret service agent M-6, according to her claims, and Bill Stugmer, chief adviser to chief prosecutor Richard Golston, is actually an agent of US military intelligence. Artman also reveals that NATO's secret operation, which led to the liquidation of more Serbs indicted by the UN tribunal, was termed "a amber star". It is very clear that the UN tribunal prosecutors are, in fact, co-workers of the British-American intelligence service. That's what Flores Artman herself said in her book, who was a senior official of the prosecution and that means that they are violating the UN's charter, that they are not independent UN officials and the Government of the Republic of Serbia must react to both the UN and Serbia themselves, everywhere on the international stage, in the protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they are being tried. The charges against them are written by agents and co-workers of British and American intelligence. This isn't something that radicals only say, this is something that is written by senior officials of the UN prosecutor's office. This means that the indictment against Vojislav Seselj was written by associates and intelligence officers of US and British intelligence, which means that it violates UN regulations, violates the basic rules guaranteed by international law and international standards. The government of the Republic of Serbia must not be silent with these facts. Please let the prime minister, Foreign Minister Markovic, who is now in charge of human rights and Minister Malovic, Justice Minister, answer when he will react on the basis of these allegations and protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are before The Hague tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62683	National MP Mikhailo Puric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62684	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, my question will be addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the competent MUP, and above all to the status of asylum seekers or persons in Banja Koviljaca. We have been witnessing unforgivable events that in Banja Koviljača for a long time, we can say for several months, the citizens of Banja Koviljaca and the citizens of Loznica have with asylum seekers. My question is how and how did the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP allow so many people to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia and so many people to come to Banja Koviljac or the city of Loznica, if we know that the Asylum Centre has between 80 and 100 places for asylum seekers, today we cannot tell exactly how many asylum seekers there are in Banja Koviljaca, if we start from what the problem is in our city, if we start from that the border is 42km long and all of those events that occur when we have a large number of people who do not have the status of citizens of Serbia and those people we cannot clearly determine which persons they are, but we can only determine the name and name they tell the competent ministry. My question on behalf of the citizens of Banja Koviljaca and on behalf of the town of Loznica is how and in what way can the number of asylumees in Banja Koviljača be reduced and brought to an extent prescribed by law? The citizens of Banja Koviljaca and Loznica will not, due to the great danger of the safety of their citizens in the coming period, say clearly today, have a meeting today, will not allow their children to go to school. I would like to warn you that this question is very important and that it is also necessary to resolve it as soon as possible. I call on the authorities to settle the asylum issue as soon as possible because I think we'll all have big problems together when it comes to our city. I would like to point out that the city of Loznica and Banja Koviljača does not have the opportunity to resolve this issue. After all, it's not in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62685	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic, Nada Kolundžija, Balint Pastor and Arpad Fremond. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search of the 23rd, 24th and 24th agenda points – Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of member of the Committee on Securities, Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Board and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction of 12 October 2011. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on items 23 to 25 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of the Parliament group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Zoran Kasalovic - the parliamentary group SPS - JS; MP Zoran Krasic - the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the termination of a member of the Securities Committee, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Board and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction of 12 October 2011. Do the representatives of the promoter, the MPs of Branka Ljiljak, the deputy of the Finance Committee and Suzanne Grubjesic, deputy president of the URS parliamentary group, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Financial Committee’s rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62686	Three of them are connected, so I'd be on my way. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you remember that we held a session of the National Assembly this July where members of the Securities Commission were elected. I assume you remember that the proposal of the MEP group was to elect Mr Radosavljevic as a member of the Securities Commission. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, he is otherwise director of the Administration of Income, the Tax Administration, as it is now called. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as we discussed that item on the agenda of July of this year, Mr. Dragutin Radosavljevic informed the National Assembly that he was withdrawing his statement, which he accepted to be a candidate for a member of the Securities Commission. At that time, we from the SRS warned the National Assembly that, given the new fact, Dragutin Radosavljevic withdrew his consent, that we cannot essentially choose him as a member of the Securities Committee because he did not meet the requirement prescribed by law. Let me remind you, the law stipulates conditions regarding school preparation, work experience, expertise and that the candidate gives a statement that he accepts to be a candidate. So the National Assembly doesn't get into a schizophrenic situation to choose a man, and he doesn't want to be. You know? He doesn't want to be a member of the Commission, and we force him to be a member of the Commission. It's an awkward situation, you know? And nicely in the law is his statement, a written statement with a signature, that he was in agreement and he was in agreement until the debate began. When the debate started, and when he heard what the radicals were saying in the Assembly, he better, the man, write a second statement and say – turkey dots don't apply, I joked, I don't want to be a member of the Securities Committee, I'd rather be the director of the Tax Administration, because if he were a member of the Securities Commission, he'd have to stop his working relationship with the Tax Administration, because according to the Capital Market Act, the President and the members of the Commission are in a working relationship with the Securities Commission. We are stuck here in the National Assembly to convince the Force of God - Europe has no alternative, to tell them aman people what you are doing, we cannot vote on a man who does not want to be a member of the Commission. But, you know, after voting from Bodrum, anything is possible. It's that primitiveism. It happened in 2003 with the governor. He was chosen from Bodrum. Even so, the other Radosavljevic, his own brother Gutin, participated, but not to remind you. When the election campaign starts, I'll just remind you, you know. Now we've seen new primitiveism. It's not a musical movement, it's a democratic movement. The man does not want to be a member of the Commission, you choose him by force, and now you are costing the National Assembly, as we are again dealing with Dragutin Radosavljevic. Look, we've got a new one now, so it's not a statement anymore, it's a formal-legal resignation. He wrote a man resigning on July 27th, 2011. So he had to wait until it was published in the Official Messenger, and then write a statement - I'm resigning as a member, and he never even took office as a member of the Securities Committee, here he is still in the IRS. What are we doing here? A nice man said he didn't want to be, and you chose him by force. I warned you in the hallway, but what are you guys doing? He says it must be done according to the Constitution and the law, and he must resign the next day. So what are we playing here, what would Mrs. Comic say, what are we playing at? The state can't be run so unseriously. You think the state is a toy-lego cube, so come on. Round to round, quarter to square. Great, us, I got it. You can't do that, Mr. Democrats. The state is a serious matter. Now let's see why a man resigns? He didn't state the reason. As soon as someone doesn't state why he's resigning, then I have a legitimate right to find a reason. What's going on with the Securities Commission? We now have in the commission of Dr Zoran Ćirović, Mr Zorica Krnjević-Miskovic, we have Dusan Bajec and we have Milk Stimac, who has spent the entire term of office as president of this commission. What is so controversial about this Securities Commission? You see, it says - the level of earnings in the Commission according to July 2011 data. Why am I telling you this in July? He was elected in July and resigned in July. It is said this - officials, managers in the Securities Commission have a monthly salary of 313,880 to 354,609 dinars. How much average profit is that? Says sector directors, department heads from 176,689 to 196,731 dinars. Other employees, you know what it's like from Balinovac on here, he says – civil servants and tenants. These were set up, so they wouldn't be civil servants, so they're tenants. Gentlemen of Serbia, you know, other employees of the Securities Commission have a salary of 73,632 to 175,768 dinars. Poor Boris Tadic, he can't even dream of this salary as the president of the Republic. You can see that this Securities Commission looks like that flight control agency. You know? That's the agency where that minister's wife is and that's Nikola Stankov. There's a monthly salary of seven -- eight thousand euros. You don't care about this, there's no need. There's someone who's interested in this. Let's see what our Securities Commission does? The Securities Commission planned 307m revenues in 2009. She made 178 million. In 2010, they planned 327 million dinars. They only made 97 million dinars. This year they planned 338 million dinars. I'm not going to read to you what their public procurement is, how much they spend on computers, how much on coffee shops and stuff. Just this information that I've told you about the revenues and the revenue achieved, I'm not going to compare them to the expenditures right now, so put it in the context of the next data. The Securities Commission has a systematised 50 types of jobs, 50 jobs and expects the total number of employees to be 109. They currently have 38 workers on indefinite time, one worker at a certain time and one person who is unscheduled. So 40 of them should spend 313 million dinars. If Mr. Dragutin Radosavljevic doesn't want to go to this "golden coke", then we can imagine what his position in the IRS is. It works a lot better in the IRS. Why am I concluding this? So since we've been slapped by this European democracy, there's only one principle here. You have money, you're beautiful, you're smart, you're desirable. You don't have money, you're not pretty, no one loves you, no one wants to hang out with you. Your system of values is - how much money is so much music. How does this system apply Dragutin? He says, "What am I going to do about the social benefits of 400,000 dinars a month when I'm clearly better at the IRS?" How much is there? You have completely unconsciously caused this kind of dispute. You forced yourself on a man who didn't want it to be. You probably wanted to remove him from the IRS to finish some work there. Since the "surgery triumph" failed, we have a second session to discuss a man named Dragutin Radosavljevic, neither guilty nor debtor. The man didn't cause anything, he didn't ask for anything. Now, if we were to make any sense, perhaps now the taxpayers should charge you all these costs all of this in the paper – seven tons of fuel for the daily session, and these costs you charge on the side, all of this should be charged to DS. Although, I would like to open an investigation, as it is against HDZ, to tell you the truth. There are elements for secret funds. Well, you know Goran Knezevic. I mean, solve the problem. Here the question of a statement of will is fundamentally raised. What kind of treatment has one individual's will statement? Somehow you made him sign a statement to accept it. When he heard our debate, he said more quickly – I withdraw my statement, I do not accept. You chose him by force again. Now you're giving me space to comment on how this is happening, what's going on in the National Assembly? Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, on 14 October 2008, you may not have known that, but later you covered it all up, in some way amnesty, in that building there, we had the same situation with a statement from one man, Ferzo. Do you know who that is? The ZES MP from Pryte. A man went to the library, activated by his blank resignation, when he left the library, a video report, signed by Zumbul Nikolic, and at the same time, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic held 78 blank resignations and you did not object, neither did he who chaired the previous session of the Administrative Committee. How do you work with citizens' statements? I'm not representing any sides here, but I'm trying to convince you, or to inform you, there's nothing to convince you, you know, behind that project was America, Miki Rakic, the dispatches are, now acting here, fighting the Kobajagi. How can Tom fight with Dad Boris? Boris made him a client. Disobedient child. Now, you're going to fool these pro-Europeans a little bit, if you could just shake a little more voice. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Last time you smiled, now you're not smiling. What? This fog hasn't gone up yet, you see, mic by mic, it all comes to its place. So the kind of pride that is characteristic of working in the National Assembly is not good. He must have reason to win. They have to put the facts on the table. You must look at the truth, not treat stress, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and count to ten. He's got to win the truth. She's always won the truth. Did he set you up? Look how glad I made you laugh. Now let's move to the third point. The third point is - G 17 plus changes its boards. I'm sorry, you're called the URS, but for me, you're G 17 plus, because when I tell people you're G 17 plus, they all say, "Pooh, pooh, pooh, let's not go, we're not going to vote, we still can't forgive you, and we don't have anything against it in principle." To be clear, it is the legitimate right of every parliamentary group, or political party represented in the elections. Some of your men resigned due to conflict functions, etc. And it's all right. However, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this is an opportunity to open a topic, a new question – should we take care of who will be president of a committee or any committee? Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we had big problems, like Serbia, because of Dragoljub Micunovic, you remember. The fact that you didn't want to put it into the agenda because of the Rules of Procedure, that's another topic. (President: Serbia had no problems with Professor Micunovic and please take care of the dignity of the Assembly and individuals. Where are the women in SE? Where are the women's e-mails in SE? How can you say I forgot something? I remember everything, I'm even a bad memory, if you're interested. I remember all your evils, that's why I'm a bad memory. Every single one of your evils you've done to the SRS has been branded. How could he not harm Serbia? How many of us have been called from the Council of Europe for refusing to bring in some women to be in the delegation, MPs? There goes the delegation and the delegation's representative for positions contrary to Boris Tadic's views. I agree that it's an internal political matter DS, that they have factions there, Micun, Boris, this faction under the influence of America, this one under the influence of Germany, this one under the influence of Turkey, I understand all that. (President: Mr Krasic, for the sake of truth, if you had given Ms Radeta and Vice President Natashi Jovanovic the position of not a deputy but a member, there would be no problem. The public for the sake of and the information true works there was only one technical discomfort more than a fundamental problem, but you could have warned it. Do not burden anyone with something that has resulted in two, otherwise active MPs having the status of deputies, not members. Well, if that were true what you said, than you haven't even read the paper since a year ago, when it's been published, but well, you have to say something, I understand. But let's move on. I have no intention of calming Boris Tadic and Dragoljub Micunovic but, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, a group of friendships between Serbia and Iran have not yet been formed. We've got MPs who applied and I'm supposed to be the president of that group of friendships. I get the impression that you hate me, so you do not want to make a group of friends and to cultivate good relations with Iran, and you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in Tekeran and you announced – as soon as you return to Belgrade, will immediately form a group of friendships. Right? The ambassador told me and the minister and Petar Jojic was with you in the delegation. I never lie, just so you know. So it can't depend on one man to be honest. He can be impressed, he can be whatever he wants, but he can't depend on his will. We have no intention of entering the quotas of other parliamentary groups and other political parties when it comes to committees. It is the legitimate right of every political party represented in the National Assembly. Please, you have to take care of who you suggest for some places. I can understand that there is some reluctance, but personal impulses can't overcome the state's interests. If anyone doesn't know what state interests are, take the Constitution and keep reading it. Mr. Micunovićda can't say – what Kosovo is, we don't care. From preamble to last member, there's kim everywhere, in all provisions. That was our initiative, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at your place. We know who needs to do this job, but we want to draw attention -- it's impossible to run politics in one way and it's said to be in accordance with the Constitution and then a completely opposite policy from the same political party and then it says it's in accordance with the Constitution. I don't know if this constitution of ours is the owner, the hoolahop, so it's stretching like this. It's not the Constitution. The constitution has its own normative strength. To be clear, we do not dispute the G 17 plus right to change, but we are taking the opportunity to draw attention to some solutions that are in the clear jurisdiction of some political parties and some parliamentary groups. Take care of who you're setting, because apparently those people you've set up are destroying your policy. Your policy is – four pillars and Europe, if you give God Kosovo etc. and take whatever life He gives you. Now Micunovic cannot annul the president of the Republic. (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62687	I understand your need to protect the reputation of the President of the Republic and that's fine, but the way you did it... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: you know how much I don't give a shit about him.) You will get a sanction if you continue to comment. Dear People's MPs, we have already begun the debate pursuant to Article 192, paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a decision to suspend the function of a member of the Securities Commission, the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS and the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a correction of 12 October 2011. Since there are no more representatives of the parliamentary groups who want to take part, I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to Vice President Natashi Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62688	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have one situation we warned about, if you remember, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, or Mrs Comic was chaired at the time. So, on the eve of the summer break, this case of Mr. Dragutin Radosavljevic is something we warned about. Obviously not that there is no synchronisation in DS lines, but rather the way the DS is trying to place certain places in certain institutions and institutions, such as the Value Paper Commission, ultimately underestimating and twisting the mockery or mocking the National Assembly, is just showing Mr. Dragutin Radosavljevic's case. He, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, as you know, is our fellow citizen, Kragujevcanin, a longtime member, for 20 years, DS. He was a committee manager and director of the Kragujevac City Construction Company. Since a few years ago, he's the director of the Serbian Tax Administration. For me he was truly amazing, knowing, as you know, Mr. Radosavljevic, the very proposal that really came from DS, where they don't care, first of all, that people shouldn't have two such functions, or they wanted some other account with him at the top of the IRS. For me, it was incomprehensible that, regardless of the political differences and everything that diametrically opposes us in the concept of both democracy and politics and everything, he accepted to be both director of the Tax Administration and member of the Securities Commission. Mr Krasic, as chairman of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then said he was not involved in this assembly. So, we talked the same thing, we used the time, like the members of other parliamentary groups, and we said -- you see, because there's no statement, a man won't be a member of the Securities Commission. How can he in this situation, when tycoons, approved by Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic, can manage the Tax Administration, that's another thing. I personally have open suspicions, like all of you, that he can call Miroslav Miskovic on the phone today and tell him – listen, Miskovic, you owe hundreds of billions of taxpayers to the state of Serbia and you have to pay it. Maybe that's what he'd want, but he just can't. How is he supposed to do that? Then his head goes. He may have also tried to carry out such actions, in the sense of increasing the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and he knows otherwise he made a public promise to us 15 days ago that a list of the 100 biggest debtors of the state, the taxpayers, would soon be published. It is certainly the head of the list and the one who absolutely broke all the records, unrecorded in any state, which would have to be in prison, which is Miskovic, for an unpaid tax to the state. So now we're waiting for that list. Maybe he was going to start that reckoning, and you said, "Yeah, let's shut him up a little bit, now we're going to propose him for the Value Paper Commission, and then, as Mr Krasic said, we're going to move him off that function. That didn't happen because we alarmed the public then at a session in June. Witnesses are all colleagues, and Serbian radicals, as well as the entire public. We said, "You can't push someone without a statement." As Mr Krasic said, where, before that, they swore to the church before God, they would respect the programming principles, the statutes and all that the SRS was as an institution in the right sense of words, so they gave a statement to the foreigners, and then this Nikolic, a poor mouse, an agent, who knows who he's already working for, picked up, stole and kidnapped the mandates of the SRS. You see how you apply the double arches. In a situation where a party having the right to do so under Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia wants to protect the electoral will of citizens, expressed in the 2008 elections, when citizens voted in favour of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj list and gave us so much trust and 78 parliamentary mandates, you steal SRS mandates from Vukic and Miki Rakic, the head of the cabinet Boris Tadic, which in Seveningen, which in the cabinet across the street at Andric's wedding, who knows where and in what budgets you agree, are stealing from the SRS, making that boyoman's alleged political party, who is fighting for a better future in Serbia by faster than Tadic to sell KIM and to work on disintegration, destroying everything in Serbia. On the other hand, people who do not want it, who are members of the DS, such as the subject of this debate, Dragutin Radosavljevic, you force them to be something and choose them by force. Because most MPs are absolutely nothing but a voting machine, most of it. Of course, here you have the high-minded Dragoljub Micunović, so let me go back to what you just said, Mrs. President, Mr. Krasic, that's not true at all what you said, that our members have chosen, conditionally said, a weaker sex for members, we would not have such a situation. Why didn't they choose counterpart Natasa Vukkovic at the start, but Micunovic wants to have all the positions? What does he, as a great chief and political adviser, who is so embarrassing to the state and mentions some conference, praises Ahtisaari's plan to kidnap KIM, was not so aware of the situation, so to speak – here, fellow Members, please? Why did you steal our place in that international delegation and give it to this traitor Tomislav Nikolic? This place in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where this unfortunate traitor is being led, belongs to the SRS. He has the status of a member there, but he's not already on, that the citizens of Serbia, who knows how many sessions, I don't think he's even been there since last year. There, otherwise, fellow parliamentarians from all EU countries, with whom we are talking, know that he is fully in the service of Brussels and those who run their country. He boasts of it, rather than making it a little harder on him, I can't accept him into this IPP group, with all the lobbies he's got, because they have to check if he's turned enough and if, after what he's sworn to, he's betrayed his president, his godfather, his godfather, his church and everything, he's become what they want. Now they have convinced themselves that he is and that he is much more receptive to them in betrayal and in everything than he is at this very moment, both Boris Tadic and DS. As for these members of the board and colleagues, as Mr Krasic said, you know that in the process of respecting everything that has been sent down by parliamentary democracies, from restoring multilaterals to today, we want to respect the reciprocity, representation of parliamentary groups and that each party has the right to change its members in committees. But we're coming again, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to our fellow citizens. Who are these people who are in office in committees, in the Committee on Culture and Information, in the Committee on Health and Family, in the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, in the Committee on Education? Again, colleagues who were in the ranks of the G17 party or the G17 coalition, together for the Shumadi, and now you are some kind of URS, with Dinkic's famous story of decentralisation and new jobs, which is indeed one ordinary political marketing, and a dangerous project for Serbia in the future and the process of its disintegration, but Mr Milenić, Mr Veroljub Stevanović and Mr Nebojsa Zdravkovic were wiped out of the G17 ranks as a rubber. You, gentlemen of G 17, after three and a half years, because there is now neither Mrs Grubjesic nor Mr Senic, remembered that they are in conflict of interest and that they cannot perform the function of MP and mayor, president of the Assembly, deputy mayor, etc. We warned you about this at the beginning of this term, by establishing the National Assembly as early as June 2008, and you said, "What the hell does that matter?" And then we quoted to you the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Was that so? When you're okay and you're supposed to make that phantom party that's gonna keep robbing Serbia, called the SNS, headed by Nikolic and Vukic, you do what you want, step on the Constitution, and then you can get off the street, those chosen on the list, whose carrier is Dr Vojislav Seselj, to betray Seselj and the Radicals, keep their mandates, do what they want, and then you break the Constitution, and then after three and a half years remember, only after who knows what warnings the Agency may be. The fact that you now have the poisoning of the political, conflict and such an otter of dissatisfaction with Stevanović, Milanic and Zdravkovic, we don't care, as well as that you from the DS only a few months before the elections because of the whole situation are acting in the town of Kragujevac some opposition with a handful of your councillors. Of course it can't be with the citizens of Kragujevac because they know very well that if someone is opposition to Stevanović, his authority and Dinkic and all of you, it's in the town of Kragujevac SRS. But what you're doing is nonsense, because you need someone to warn you, which I don't know how long it takes for you to understand something and come to the conclusion that the Constitution and the laws of this country have to be respected. The fact that you stole the mandates of the SRS, that we cannot, unlike you, replace those of whom, as President Seselj said, are disgusted that they have ever been, like Nikolic and Vukic, any of his associates, it will come back to you. Because the people can't stand the betrayal, especially the betrayal of such species, under the patronage of those who destroy Serbia, those who rob us, certainly can't stand corruption, disrespect and violation of the Constitution and the law, and above all, the policy that leads Serbia into the sun and the destruction of what we are building and trying to build 20 years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is respect for all parliamentary, normal processes, and above all respect for the people's will. We are confident that in the elections that will take place in a few months, primarily because of our consistency, because we are the only political party that advocates your devastating policy of Serbia's entry into the EU and in the evil-doing NATO pact, we will win a large number of voters' votes. Our consistency and, above all, the endurance and courage of our president to be with the world's nemesis, and you heard Mr. Aleksic, I just don't know how much you listened, because while he was talking about the Serbian Government, that the Assembly, that the competent authorities should react for what President Seselj was nine years for a false indictment in the Hague case, and yesterday he was embarrassed to be tried twice for so-called. Disrespecting the court to get 18 months in prison, to get him out of privileged communication, that he can't make any contact, well, that's that you're nowhere, on any committee, and you haven't raised your voice against it. This speaks of you, and his endurance and ours, along with him, will lead to Serbia's improvement and recovery, make sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62689	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62690	Dear People's MPs, instead of talking today about the problems of the Serb people in KIM, about KIM, instead of talking about the standard of citizens, about the inacceptability of the path you have set for us towards the EU, precisely because they are taking away 15% of our territory, to discuss that in that EU there is a financial breakdown on the pier, see what is going on with Greece, it is Spain, it is up to Portugal, Italy, that no country that is there is less than 200 billion euros in debt, we are discussing some points of the agenda that will little or little touch the citizens of Serbia. What exactly is this about? We chose members of the Securities Commission. You proposed Mr Dragutin Radosavljevic, director of the Tax Administration. I withdrew the application statement, but still, it was not easy to explain that man said he no longer wanted to be a member of the Securities Commission, but we had to, you forced the National Assembly, you forced parliament to vote and to appoint him as a member of the Securities Commission. So he was chosen beyond his will. What about the statement? What's with the will? The man wrote his own resignation. He has now been forced to write down his resignation at work and to a function that he has not spent a single second in. In July he was elected – resigned in July. The salary to be elected, and this should interest Serbian citizens, is about 400,000 dinars, ranging from 370 to 400,000 dinars. How much is the president's salary? How much is the president of the National Assembly's salary? How much does that pay the MPs? How many average salaries of Serbia or pension? Why does a man just say no? Let's not go into his personal desire not to accept it for some other reason, but then a man asks himself a question – if this one refused a salary of 400,000 dinars, how much does he have as a director of the Tax Administration and how many average salaries of Serbian citizens and pensions are covered? This is proof, ladies and gentlemen, how much this 126-nation coalition cares about the state, takes care of its citizens, takes care of the standard. This is proof as far as they're concerned - and the cube is round and the ball is square, if they manage to gather in the day to vote 126. This is proof of how much the state cares for citizens in Serbia, especially how much it cares for citizens who are located, thanks to the good part of this government, in The Hague tribunal. Mr. Aleksic said for a little while that the indictments of Prof. Vojislav Seselj were written by M-6, CIA agents, etc., who were located at the premises of investigators, prosecutors, deputy prosecutors in The Hague tribunal, but were written by his indictment by those agents who were in very high office in this state of Serbia at the time. When I say so, I mean Svilanovic and others, as well as the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and his statement – take him away and don't bring him back. A second point that shows a much more obvious lack of interest from this authority to remain at least something the next day after the elections in this country. Namely, a member of the Board of Governors. I'll read his characteristics. He was born in 1947, his name is Nikola Martinovic, which means that he is now 65, 66 years old, he is elected to a term of six years, which means, when his term expires, if God will welcome those 72 years, he should long walk his grandkids. You're choosing a man who should have retired a long time ago. In two years, they will meet that other condition that is binding, which is 65 years of life. The work experience recommended by him for this seat of the National Bank Governor's Council is particularly interesting – he worked at the Transport Company "Dinamotrans" from Subotica, as a manager, and then worked towards the financial director in the same company, so he worked as the Director-General of the Foot Factory "Solid" Subotica, everything is about fiscal policy, everything is about the National Bank and everything is about the function of governor and his deputies. He then moves to the post of Assistant Director-General for Finance in "Naftagas Transport", which is "Jugopetrol", part of the "Jugopetrol", i.e. now NIS, then, from 2004 to 2008, a man in years and with experience from this area is leaving for the board of directors of the Oil Industry of Serbia, and then we choose him again in 2009 as a member of the Management Board of the Oil Industry of Serbia, to be a special adviser of Serbia's general director from 2005 to today. I may not be smart enough, but I haven't seen a link here to his work so far, hence his experience with the National Bank, with the position of advisor to the governor of the National Bank. But, well, it's not that bad either. After all, his and the subject of the master's thesis was "Transformation of the Tax System in Serbia with the introduction of VAT". Something else that we might have to think about today, that is to say, before you raise your hand in voting day, is this the rejuvenation of the Shoskic team? Governor Šoškić is a relatively young man and normally to gather young people, as you said in 2000, young, beautiful and smart, came from the white world, took up functions, came in shoes and brought us here where we are now and where, let me not be resented, only my grandmother can take us out. Are we training young people who will be extremely large experts in the area of finance the next day? How old will this candidate be when he finishes his term? I've recalculated, 72. The average age in Serbia is about 70 years for men, if I'm not mistaken. Do not put a new congregation in a position to choose a new member of the Board of Governors for two years. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time this assembly dealt with problems that are vital to the state of Serbia. I repeat, to address Kosovo's problem, to address the problem that your current friends in Europe impose on us, to deal with the standard of citizens, that two-thirds of Serbian citizens have nothing to eat, and we place people whose salary is tenfold and perhaps hundreds of times the basic income of Serbian citizens and that Serbia's state is finally taken into account and dealt with its citizens, its citizens who are in The Hague tribunal. The state is obliged to do so, ministers are obliged to do so, the prime minister is obliged to do so, but the National Assembly is required to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62691	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62692	Ladies and gentlemen, my exposure will focus first and foremost on the election of a new member of the NBS Council and in this sense we find it inappropriate that there are no representatives of the National Bank, we believe that at least there should be a governor here, not only because of this important place and this important change, because the Board of Governors is an important institution and an important body that controls the work of the NBS, but also because of all the events that are happening with the NBS where we see a single struggle between the Ministry of Economy, between the banks and the governors, where obviously all three sides are not leading a coherent policy. It's one fact that worries us. We still believe that the National Assembly should, as the most legislative body and controlled by the NBS, have insight into what is happening in monetary policy. As far as the candidate, Mr Nikola Martinovic, is concerned, we see that he has mastered the tax system and we see that he will have important information in terms of the NBS Act and we consider it, and this consists of our constructive objections, he must, and other members of the Board of Governors must bear in mind that the situation regarding the banking sector is more than worrying, primarily due to the monopoly of Western banks, i.e. from the EU on the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we are referring to the 2010 NBS Report, where it can be seen, these are NBS data or institutions in which the gentleman will work as a member of the Board of Governors, showing that around 20% of the banking sector in the Republic of Serbia is held by banks from Austria. A little less than 20% are occupied by Italian banks, then Greeks, from a country that is shaken by an incredible crisis, where so much unrest has been caused primarily by the collapse of the banking sector, 17%, we have our friends, under quotes, from France holding 7% and most in favour of KIM independence, it is known and we have one single real and strong domestic bank, that is the Commercial Bank, which is announced to sell to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The situation is more than worrying. To show it, I'll make another argument. According to US official websites, the average interest rate in the Republic of Serbia in 2010 was 12%. On the other hand, in leading EU countries such as Germany and France, these are exactly countries that advocate not only for KIM independence but for a banking system like ours, the average interest rate in Germany is 8% and in France 3%. So in Serbia 12% is the average interest rate, and in Germany 8% and in France 3%. That's amazing. This shows all the problems facing the banking sector in the Republic of Serbia. In order for this absurd to be even bigger, you have one single sector in fact in this country that brings income, which is the banking sector. They only made revenues in the last year of 240m euros. Instead of taxing this sector on such interest rates as was done in Hungary, as the Slovak parliament made several days ago a unanimous decision on this extra-transition tax for foreign banks in Slovakia, as does one Spain, which is the fourth or fifth economy in the EU, we see here running away from the problem, running away from the fact that a foreign bank, i.e. EU banks earn and exploit our citizens and extra incomes in Western Europe on interest rates. What does that mean exactly? It means that our citizens finance their home banks in Western Europe and no one can convince us that it is not true, because we hear from the government representatives a pointless formulation that they are allegedly legal persons such as the "Integration of the Bank", such as Hipo Alpe Adria Banka and other banks registered in the Republic of Serbia independent of their parent banks in Western Europe. That's just not true. And the fact that this shows is that I will again quote the Vienna Agreement between the IMF of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia and the Mother Bank, whose branches work and operate in the Republic of Serbia. So, if it were independent legal persons, as we are convinced by the representatives of the government and the governor, then I would probably agree with the Hipo Alpe-Agrey Bank in Belgrade or with the "Inteza" in Belgrade, not with their queens in Western Europe. So it's about one interest rate policy and one policy that leads to the further collapse of our citizens' standards. We are also particularly concerned that in all these accompanying laws regarding the NBS of the Republic of Serbia, we see one intention, one intensities to imitate, and literally, that is, the former Governor Jelasic said, to imitate a non-democratic way of working as it is present at the European Central Bank. You must know, we regret that he is not the governor here to answer this question specifically, that the Governor of the European Central Bank is chosen by the political decision of those who have the most action in that institution. So, it has nothing to do with the European Parliament, it has nothing to do with democracy, and it shows that in the EU, the ruling majority, the government tends at all costs, even at the cost of losing Kosovo and Metohija, at the cost of introducing these 12% interest, there is an intolerable democratic deficit. Or a democratic deficit that is characteristic of these institutions and which is shown not only in the economy, but also in the judiciary, for example in The Hague, where it is possible for Vojislav Seselj, for example, to receive 18 months for a verbal delinquent, Naser Oric 22 months for 100 and some innocent citizens who killed 90 years in the vicinity of Srebrenica. Now, these are double standards, and these are the standards that apply to both of us, and we simply think that the governor and member of the Council who is elected today, which we will not vote for, of course, because we are against that kind of work, have to get in the way, first of all, when it comes to these interest rates. By preparing ourselves, for this debate, we from the SRS have studied the concept of interest in the interest of interest and have come to an incredible conclusion that, for example, in ancient times, in Byzantium, a 12% interest was declared illegal, for interest rate, and you have an average interest rate of 12% here, and it's just amazing. Also, we do not understand how there are three different opinions on the mandatory NBS reserves, where one representative of the governor, the other represents the economy minister together with Mr. Dugalic, who appears to be a foreign bank spokesman working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Even these foreign banks are so bold that they require NBS to impose interest on these mandatory reserves. I mean, it's really amazing. So much insolence and so much insolence at the moment when that sector alone earns money, where our industrial production fails, where we have growing unemployment. This is simply amazing, and we are also appealing to this man who will be elected to the Board of Governors today, to stand by that practice once in the way, and yet to use some legal means, some economic means that allow even European guidance, the European directive to which the NBS is called in its laws, above all we are referring to the 2004 guidebook number 48. In that manual, in Article 169. The Lisbon Treaty, which is called on by the NBS Act, is said that Member States can also apply stronger measures in the financial sector than those prescribed at EU level. And we're coming up with a concrete proposal, which should have been delivered here directly to the governor or to the gentleman who's elected member of the Board of Governors, which is to amend the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. First and foremost, he must have a retroactive fact. Because it is pointless if there is no retroactive fact and if it is not able to punish those who have applied to our citizens for 10 years, above all I mean banks from the EU, variable interest rates, variable margins, unclear credit conditions and in such a way, not only introduce our legal and economic system of variable and interest interest, but also steal it and I directly say steal our citizens. Exactly, that figure is huge, and that number could come in for help, I'm talking about several hundred million euros, to help so-called. In fact, not parallel, but institutions in Kosovo and the Health Method, in health, medicine and education, where Serbian citizens should be helped, above all in the North and in the enclaves. So here's another one of our concrete proposals that could solve, not only economically but also a broader problem. In that sense, we believe that the gentleman who is elected here as a member of the Board of Governors should influence another inappropriate fact, and these are penalties in the protection of users of financial services, which are minimal and whose maximum, if I am not mistaken, 5,000 euros, which you will acknowledge in relation to that 240m-euro figure of income that foreign banks have, more than insufficiently. So, if the legislator, if the NBS won't adopt our proposal to introduce a transitional crisis tax, like in Slovakia, Hungary and Spain, let's increase the fines for those who cheat and steal our citizens with incredible interest rates. So these are our concrete proposals, proposals that can, within a very short time, improve the standard of our citizens and simply show that these authorities and the NBS have both political and economic courage, and the will to do something for these citizens. In that sense, we are not optimistic, we are not optimistic because we see, when it comes to judicial anomalies, or human rights violations, we from the SRS have to address the Russian Federation to protect, try to protect the rights of Dr Vojislav Seselj. The same situation is with Kosovo and Metohija. Russia better defends the interests of citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore we are not optimistic about this new appointment and continued economic policies of the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62693	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. You have 31 minutes and 30 seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62694	Since we are the first part, the first third of this part of the agenda has been very successfully solved, it is Dragutin Radosavljevic, and I leave it a little bit aside. Now we move to this second point, it's the election of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS of Serbia. In order for everything to be clear, I must at first draw attention that both the governor and members of the Council are elected to the National Assembly on the proposal of a parliamentary group. He goes through the Finance Committee and comes to the National Assembly session. There was a need to elect another member of the National Bank of Serbia Council because Professor Dr. Nenadu Vunjaku. You remember his letters, addressed to all MPs where he explained one difficult situation that exists at the National Bank of Serbia, where a man disagrees. It is not, at the very least, important because you have successfully avoided it to be the subject of some public debate or debate in the National Assembly, but what is important? It is important that the SPS-JS parliamentary group sent an official proposal to the Finance Committee on 19 July 2011. Nikola Martinovic is elected member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board and we had several sessions of the National Assembly in the meantime, only now entered the agenda. What does that mean? This means that the National Bank of Serbia can function in the back of the system without any problems, the real thing. Another conclusion, if the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is looked at, so when you look at what the powers of the Board of Governors are, you have to note that there is not a single jurisdiction in monetary policy. There is more of a kind of more supervisory-status function, referring to the statutes, the financial plan etc. has nothing to do with open market operations, course etc. It is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr. Soskovic, and you remember when you chose him several months ago, after Jelasic left, then we warned you that Soskic had escaped in his biography to say he was on the Energy Supervisory Board. So we also have a governor with a feller in his biography. When someone is running for the National Bank of Serbia, governor or member of the Board of Governors, he also has to make a statement. Here, just like others did, so Mr. Nikola Martinovic made a statement. It has not been certified, it appears that by fax it was sent on July 15th 2011, where it informs a parliamentary group that proposes that it accepts him to be a candidate and swears that there is no such interference from Articles 19, 20th, and this is a conflict of interest – that there is no private capital in banks, private enterprise, etc. It goes stereotyped with us, that's understood, and later when something is determined then there's a scream. Reflecting on why they have proposed a man who essentially fails to meet the catch prescribed by law, the law requires that an expert from the fields of monetary policy and banking, however, there is no banking in his biography, there is no monetary policy either. If we look at what this master's work is, it's a transformation of the tax system in Serbia by introducing VAT. It makes sense with fiscal policy and fiscal power, but with monetarys it doesn't. I read the biography and I get the impression that the main reference for the proposal was the fact that from 1989 to 1992 the gentleman was an assistant minister of the interior. He probably has some police experience, he acquired it in those three years, and probably the SPS estimated that he needed to insert an insider -- a mole, to see what was done in the NBS, because this other thing doesn't fit the law. If the idea is to insert a mole, to see how the NBS does it, then we can assume they're honorable intentions. Why? Here, don't keep calling me to criticize you, now I'm praising you. I don't know what's wrong with me today, but I have to praise you. What's this about? After the Vienna Agreement in January 2009, where foreign banks are guaranteed to be able to raise capital from Serbia in the same size as it was in 2008, then I get the impression that it has come this far and that a professional policeman is needed, that he is examining it and that we are approaching the elections and we recognise an election message sent to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The message reads this -- if Nikola Martinovic is elected member of the NBS Council, he will drop a stone from the heart in Serbia. You know that 500,000 families in Serbia cannot repay loans to foreign banks, they are in a blockade. Their lives are blocked. This means that it will be maximum capped, it will bring down interest rates, there will be no more euro stories, Swiss francs, and gold and silver francs, and this, and that, there will be no big stories and some Radoika, and some Culibrk, and Palibrk, and economic analysts, it will be Mr Martinovic who will cut into the root and the Raiffeisen Bank will charge the interest that is valid in Austria. So the interest rates are going down overnight. Those mortgages will also be reviewed, the mole-based police will move into a decisive fight against the banking mafia. If that's an idea, you have the support of the SRS, because we support anyone who fights crime. I warn you, there are those who impose themselves as future power. They say that Šoškovic answers them, publicly praises him. You who chose him, think about what that message means. So 500 thousand families have to feel the benefits of choosing Nikola Martinovic as a member of the Board of Governors of NBS within a few days. That's the first thing. The second thing, it must specifically focus on the banking sector and on insurance companies, as well as insurance companies control the NBS and see if it generates extra profits, to see how costs are allocated, how profits are reportedly reduced, so that in the second phase, the finance ministry starts taxing extra profits at a rate of 99%. So, the state has the legitimate right that anything that is illegal or that does not start with human rights, which does not correspond to social justice, banking interest is contrary to social justice, banking interest in Serbia is the most affected by the human rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Martinovic on a special task must cut it down there in the NBS. That's how I interpret this. If this is a basic idea, then the sun will warm us up, however, if he enters the council to take up with the existing advice that on every issue of monetary policy – it is not in our jurisdiction, in our jurisdiction is the statute, the financial plan, the report, some supervision, as they have recorded the activity, the passive, the report on the results of the business, etc. We don't need Mr. Martinovic for that. As you can see, the Board of Governors is defiled, working, holding a course, it's an honor to them. As much as it costs to maintain that course, I guess we'll find out sometime. Let me remind you, the NBS foreign reserve is held in America, Great Britain and Germany. Let me remind you, we have a situation with several billion euros where the National Bank is allegedly in debt with some of the world's banks, and that agreement has not ratified here and is said to be not even ratified because that money does not go into consumption, it is a golden reserve to preserve the course. That's what Mr. Martinovic has to do. All agreements that create an international commitment to citizens of the Republic of Serbia must be ratified in the National Assembly. If the National Assembly does not insist on this agreement, and this money was taken at the end of 2008, the paper, not taken like this, and interest is paid on it, please, and on what we have concluded some agreements, and you have not used the funds, and that is what interest is paid to you, so you know. You know, they have the euro as much as the euro. They guard their own, they have nothing on sale. They only get caught by the head for some time- is it possible in Serbia that the government doesn't care how much it costs. It's important that the media announce how beautiful it is. You see, if these are Mr. Martinovic's special duties, well done, then you've been stabbed in the center. However, I must distract you, I must not be naive. We in the SRS have to question this. Why do we doubt this? Because it's pro-European politics. The NBS leads, just like the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pro-European politics, as well as all these parties here, except the SRS. That's where you don't know each other at all. You're different in pillars. Someone wants two pillars, someone wants four pillars, all of you are for Serbia to join the EU without KIM. What you're saying doesn't matter. You're all in favour of Serbia being in the NATO Pact. You'll have eyes to take out during the election campaign, and you'll be accusing yourself of who stole the program from whom. We in the SRS are now degutantly talking individually about political parties, because the program is the same, and you are fighting for authorship, who has plagiarized whom. As for those from the EU, the World Bank, that suits them. Whoever says it's for the EU has the support of Phil, and Solana, and Wesley Clark, William Walker, Thaci. And Thaci is for the EU, you know. So that's what we're done with, how you're going to make coalitions. So that's the policy. This gentleman must follow that policy and make his contribution to this policy. Will there be any new borrowing of the Republic of Serbia? It will. Did you gather for the session of the National Assembly as much as Serbia is in charge? For two years, there has been no session of the National Assembly, where there was not one, two, three or 16 laws on ratification of some agreements, where Serbia is in charge. What's he in charge of? God knows what he's in charge of. I count on Mr Nikola Martinovic to make a big contribution, to finally find the money that is in Cyprus. Why? The younger one brought 78 boxes of 10-54 warrants. The complete documentation is in the NBS. It's impossible, my people, since 2000, for 11 years that we don't know where that kind of money comes from. How is that possible, please? You solve items with a hen and chickens, and you can't solve for billions. How is that possible? Please don't. I expect you to make a big contribution and finally take that criminal report, and there are a lot of them that were put in that criminal report, who kind of know what was going on with that money. That's one thing. What else do I expect from Mr. Martinovic? Nikola Martinovic must contribute, to finally learn the real truth about the business of the Deposit Insurance Agency. Who knows what they're doing with the assets and the passive banks in bankruptcy. I expect that contribution. Whether it's by the statute or not, I don't want to get into it. I'm just warning you that these are the problems that burden the daily lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Look, if you finish this, the 500,000 families that have been blocked by interest banks from abroad, we still don't have data on how much each of them amounts to money from such a poor non-European Serbia. You know, we're expecting answers. We expect it to apply. We can see that the gentleman has experience, because from 1989 to 1992 he was an assistant minister at the Ministry of Interior. He knows how it can be done in the NBS, he knows how many vice governors there are. I don't know if there's any other vice governors that aren't on criminal charges. It seems to me, starting with that Lalic, now something's going on with that Lalic, but it doesn't matter. But there are a lot of people who have had to shake a little and see what they've been doing since 2000. It is not possible that while we had SDK, that everything could have worked properly – payment traffic, bills, etc., and since we adopted the European standard, that the payment problem would have gone to the banks, with us the flood. It's impossible, people. That's impossible stuff. We've got a NBS that's got a lot of jurisdiction. This is where we rebelled over these great responsibilities of the NBS. We accepted, of course, monetary policy basically to be in their hands and the banking system. We weren't for insurance companies, investment funds, etc. You're here -- that's the international standard, where the money is, there's the NBS. I knew we had the saying - where the money is, there's the G17 plus. Now I see it's where the money is, there's DOS. Where the money is, there are pro-European parties. Where the money is, there are pro NATO parties. People, remember, 500,000 families can't pay off bank loans on a regular basis. It's a month late somewhere, about two months and so on. I warn you, this is where I expect a great contribution from this assistant, former assistant minister to the MUP. The banks are today delivering data to the debt relief agencies. Last time I told you about the King case. Simply, introduce yourself – we are you and you, we represent here and that bank, the Bank of Intez, please, you are so much and so much obliged, give it as soon as possible to get rid of, otherwise, you know how it goes. The question is asked – how can personal data that enjoy protection be provided to unauthorized persons? There are 65,000 people working in the agencies, you know, these be guards, who are following the money, which is provided by the institutions, they even provide state authorities. They're in a contractual relationship with the state authorities, with the para-state authorities. They're on the receiver, then they're filming at night, they're going around, and so on. They're the same. They're being hired by these banks. And they say -- the problem is the mortgage, the problem is the note, the problem is this, the problem is that. The problem is that a man lost his job, so there's no administrative ban. Then the agencies go in, and it's just like that, you know, a sock over your head. Just like when Milosevic was arrested. That's why he's wearing a sock over his head. The same time they hacked into the NBS, the stocking over his head, you remember, October 5th. You have to remember, because that's the nomenclature, the pro-European was putting socks on her head. So these are some things that this man has to solve. He has to burn at work. He must turn his hands to the board members of this Board of Governors, make them say – amen the people, we must as a Board of Governors, as NBS, take matters into our own hands and see who our bank controllers are, finally looking for, as I see that from Novi Sad, finally asking how the AP Vojvodina has become the majority owner of Metals Bank. There are two reasons why this should be examined. First one's political. Remember, the Securities Commission was illegally, under the orders of Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister at the time, approved by the AP Vojvodina, the Finance Secretariat, which has no state authority status, to be in that privileged group so that it could buy out Metals Bank shares without a public call. That's the story - I'm withdrawing funds, I'm investing funds. When I withdraw the funds, I cause the inconvenience of Metals Bank, to introduce temporary measures, and then I capitalize, and now it's the Vojvodine Development Bank. Just to remind you, the integral part of that story is that you would be stalking him, Darko Saric. As you can see, there is no principled difference between you Democrats and HDZ. There's only a difference here in the DA's office. That's where the D.A. got a warrant to work, to take them down, and here he can't get a warrant to take you down. Why? You listen to the EU. Now, the problem is whether this gentleman will fit in, that he listens to the EU, and he's adventing, receives every month 300, 400, 500 thousand dinars of compensation as a member of the Council, turkey dots are all right, we have organs, the law is respected, 500 thousand people can't pay off loans, banks are corrupting, amounts, you know, but it's promised to them. So, Mr. Nikola Martinovic, I don't know the man, but today we gave him the significance of being Elliot Ness. Elliot Ness fought crime without any kind of pardonna and we expect Nikola Martinovic, since he was an assistant interior minister, is understood in fiscal policy, in monetary, by biography, not understood, but he will learn, if Dejan Šoškić learned it, which Nikola Martinovic could not learn, just doing, is not something God knows what is difficult. It's not hard, he used to be a member of the Board of Governors and that mathematician Kovacevic, so he represented himself as an economist, and he was a mathematician-statisticist. It was at that time in 2003, when Bodrum was voted on by the National Bank. You may have forgotten, in 2003, the one from Bodrum, the plane ticket, the man, that, Mrs. Comic, when Pajtic pushed those cards and I went and threw it out, remember? How can you not remember? You don't remember? Well, I'm just disappointed. I'll remind you, okay? So we're clear, and we expect these problems to be solved, and there's a big problem in the NBS. It's big. Why? Either they're not doing it right or they're complicit in this. Another thing, please, do you see these newly-compromised patriots, when they sell their property, they hate to pay a part of the tax to Serbia, and you take pictures with them. Just take a picture with them. They won't pay taxes, what do they pay taxes to Serbia? Serbia haunts him, he makes so many billions of dollars and he's got some baskets, carried there somewhere in Bosniaks, Bacina, there. But he formed you, he made this government, he led you to the EU to meet with Phil, he organized a stay there, and there, in Brussels, you took a vow and now you can't, you can't go, and these are telling you that Beko will be Prime Minister, think about it now, and then there will be a rehabilitation law for Karic. Karic said – give him all the wealth, just to bring him back to Serbia. Everybody knows that. If you don't know, read the dispatches, WikiLeaks published everything the Americans say. However, there's something in the American dispatches about governors, but I'm saving it for later, I can't spend it all now, there's a lot of you in the O.R., and there's no one to deny it when I speak, and I can't miss that pleasure. Mr. Nikola Martinovic is neither guilty nor indebted to the sea as Elliot Ness in the Council of the Governors of the NBS to solve the problem of 500,000 banks' families, preventing the outflow of capital and profits from these banks with foreign names that work with foreign funds, so some daughters of some companies whose queen is abroad must solve, without any problems. If he thinks one of the banks can condition Serbia today, he can't. They've so much of their resources here, and they love their money, none of them are going to run away. Everything's within your grasp. All you have to do is give up pro-European politics. If you give up pro-European policies and put in the right plan the vital interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have solved everything. Miskovic and the company must pay taxes, contributions, VAT and a year do not have to conclude any foreign debt contracts for the Republic of Serbia. The question is, do you have the courage to do it? Now it's a question of what they installed from their services to state authorities, where his people are officials, where his people are assistants, where his people are directors. The man has spread out. I want to fight you with him, but I'm sick of that job. Looks like the connective tissue is much stronger. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, since you are in a hurry in Europe, I would like to buy you a minute to go to Europe as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62695	I'll tell you again that we're on the European road together, I'm not leaving you. National MP Zoran Krasic was the last reported MP for the word in a joint single search on items 23, 24 and 25 of the agenda. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word in accordance with Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, without taking advantage of his right to this article? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a decision to suspend the function of a member of the Securities Commission, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction of 12 October 2011. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide on the proposals of these decisions in the voting day. We are moving on to a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision confirming the Commission's Financial Plan for Securities of 2011 and a proposal to give its consent to the Statute of the Committee on Securities of Values, and before the opening of the Joint Single Search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 192, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Zoran Kasalovic - MP group SPS – JS and Parliament MP Lidija Dimitrijevic - SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a DECISION TO APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE COMMISSION FOR PURPOSE The year and the proposal to give consent to the status of the committee on securities of value Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the representatives of the promoter want a word? I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, submitted a statement in writing, with a number of MPs, by the SRS parliamentary group. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly is under obligation to confirm the Commission's financial plan for securities of value and to give consent to its statute. Otherwise, together with the Privatisation Agency, the Action Fund and the Ministry of Finance played a key role in the privatisation process in Serbia or, in other words, in the process of corrupting social property, the loss of the state and the vast majority of citizens, some directly, and some, such as, say, members of their families, indirectly. First, when it comes to the financial plan, it is important to point out that the National Assembly, in addition to being the most legislative body, has a supervisory function. Namely, the Commission is responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to carry out its duties under its jurisdiction. Now we have the next situation. The most legislative body, which adopts laws that should be binding on everyone, violates those laws. We'll put aside that when we look at the official data we see among the reports that the latest report adopted is the Commission's 2008 financial report. On the first side of the 2011 financial plan, which the Commission delivered to the National Assembly, it was written that the then president of the Commission was free to remind the speaker of the Assembly that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had not adopted business reports and the Commission's financial plans several years ago. In November of last year, the Commission president asked the National Assembly to consider and adopt the 2011 financial plan, as this is the only way for the Commission to ensure the performance of its tasks in a legitimate and efficient manner. Here, today, on the first day of November, when there are two months left until the end of the year, the debate on the financial report, which was submitted in November last year, is on the agenda. Another important question is being raised here, however, there is no report from the Finance Committee, which is the proposing, to give us an answer as to why the National Assembly has been breaking the law all these years? Understandably, since the commission is one of the most hated organisations in Serbia, because it has equally participated in the destruction of the privatisation economy, it was necessary to avoid discussions in the Assembly on it. However, in this year we had some changes in the members of the Commission, there were some resignations, so it seems that, when it comes to this organisation, the plan is adopted and somehow obeyed the law. Otherwise, the plan says that since the establishment of the Commission, the Commission has been doing a positive job, that the excess revenue over expenditure is the revenue of the Republic's budget, that if it were the opposite, if there were more expenditure or revenue, then this would be covered by the funds of the reserve. If that's not enough, then the Republic budget. Then, to make his income on the basis of various fees for his work, etc. I think I need to quote a part that's written in the explanation, which refers to the cost of gross earnings. It writes the following – one of the basic preconditions for the unbiased and independent work of the Commission, as a key regulator in the securities market, is to maintain the level of earnings at the level of stock exchange employees, brokerage houses and authorised and cascades of banks, which are authorised by the Commission to work and supervise the legality of their business. If anyone suspected that corruption flourished at every turn in Serbia, where would you better prove its existence than this unequivocal recognition? This paragraph - earnings in the Commission may be important at this time, as so little remains to be privatised, if we do not take public undertakings into account. At a time when the privatisation process was largely implemented, they did not need any pay at all. Most would surely work out of love for their country and its natural and social resources. This is also witnessed by criminal reports submitted by the Anti-Corruption Council in 2010. As regards the Statute of the Commission, to which the National Assembly is to give its consent, it is the consequence of the Capital Market Act. After such consent, it will cease to be valid, as is understood. A few things from the Statute I'll comment on. It is an interesting Article 23 in which it writes – the President and the Member of the Commission, an employee or person engaged by the Commission, cannot be personally responsible for any action or failure that occurs during the course of official duty, in accordance with the powers which the Commission has under the rules of its jurisdiction and acts of the Commission, unless this is an evil intention and intentional abuse of the situation. There is plenty of space left here for failures and various activities during the course of official duty, because there is no responsibility. Evil intent and intentional abuse of the situation in Serbia is very difficult to prove, especially considering what kind of judiciary we have. In order to illustrate this a little bit closer, I will give an example in which one of the main actors is the Securities Commission. Evidence held by the Anti-Corruption Council has turned into criminal charges against 17 people, four of whom are from the Securities Commission. Mrs. Barac, director of the Council, owned detailed documentation showing unequivocally that state institutions co-operated with tycoons, deceived small shareholders and allowed Milan Bek's company to become the majority owner of Luke Belgrade below the price. For the Council, this is a typical example of the provision of large capital, politics and state institutions to obtain anti-legal benefits, as they say it was a phantom firm, which the competent state institutions knew, and yet decided to deceive small shareholders. The company "World Fine" had no management, no previous jobs, no money in the account, and in its statute it had no right to deal with trade or any commercial business. Also, she didn't have her own bank guarantee, she used someone else's. The Council has documentation on all of this, and according to their assessment it is a typical phantom company, which the state institutions, and especially the Securities Commission, had to take into account. At the moment of taking over the majority package, the company had 31 thousand dollars in its account, and bought a company worth 45m euros. It is precisely there, by chance or on purpose, that the Securities Commission, whose job was to check whether a potential buyer, who wants to take over a company, has enough money to take over, or whether he has opened a dedicated account, on which the amount is equal to the total value of all the shares. In addition to the Securities Commission, small shareholders were involved in the deception of Luke Belgrade, the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund. At the moment of privatisation, the accounting price of the stock was only 497 dinars, as estimated in 1998. Luke's leadership has been engaged by the Institute of Economic Research for a new assessment. Soon, the Institute informed management that the real price was three and a half times higher, and that it would give a final assessment in a few months. However, leadership has informed the Ministry of Economy, the Privatisation Agency, the Action Fund and the Securities Commission of the company's upcoming change, which means everyone was familiar with the real price of Luka's "Belgrade" action. However, the Management Board informed shareholders that there was a adjustment in the value of capital. However, financial reports were adopted without these changes, so shareholders gained the impression that the value of one action remains 497 dinars. According to data provided by the Anti-Corruption Council, the Supervisory Board has also failed to warn members of the Assembly that adopting financial reports is not actually a corrected value of capital. On the same day, when the Company Assembly was held, the Securities Commission agreed on the offer of the Luxembourg firm "Vrld Fine" to pay 800 dinars for action, although according to the Institute for Economic Research, it was informed of a new one, which was bigger. An offer that was valid until 27 September was delivered through the brokerage-dealer company "MMV Investment", which, by the way, also intervened in the acquisition of the "C Market". The board of directors advised shareholders to wait until September 23rd, it was a deadline within which a counter offer could arise and then decide whether to deposit their actions. As there were no other interested companies, shareholders deposited their actions, the Privatisation Agency commissioned the Action Fund to sell the shares from its portfolio and the takeover bid succeeded. On the same day, the Institute of Economic Research provided a calculation showing that the value of one action was 1774 dinar. In this regard, the attractiveness of the land on which Luka "Belgrade" is located has not been taken into account, which has been increased due to changes in the urban plan. The damage the Anti-Corruption Council considers to have been made to the state budget during this transaction has been estimated at 21m euros. In 2008, about a thousand small shareholders filed criminal charges against those responsible in Luka for fraud. By 2010, there was not a single reaction from the court, but when the Council filed criminal charges, Milan Beko responded and filed a lawsuit for alleged libel. In three months, the court has scheduled four hearings. This is true of what I said when I commented on article 23. The statutes that due to Serbia's judiciary, it is really difficult to prove the evil intention and intentional abuse of the position of a person who is in office or employed in a state organisation. The Commission for Securities of Values also played a significant role when it came to the same personality, Milan Beko, and this is in the case of "News". About ten days ago, we had a chance to hear the epilogue, so the memories are fresh. I'll just repeat that the Commission has rejected the request of the German "Vac" to take over the "News". So much for the tycoons and the commission. Also, a significant role was played by the Commission in the process of transforming Metals Bank into the Vojvodine Development Bank, which we had the opportunity to hear from Mr Krasic for a little while, by granting approval for the issue of actions to previously known customers. A few more words about the Commission's statutes. Article 2 states that it is an independent and independent organisation. It is interesting to look at the composition of the Commission: the current President, former Assistant Minister of Finance, is also former Commission President, who is now a member, another member and former director of the tax administration, already mentioned in the previous debate. So much for the independence and independence of the Commission. There's nothing wrong with Serbia, and before I say a few words about it, I'm going to say one more thing about Article 33. The statutes. Is it because of the haste or some other reason, in the work of keeping a business secret, it is written like this: "the former president". This is unserious. The statute of an organization should not be written in such an unserious way. Like I said, there's a lot of things about us in Serbia that we shouldn't. I will return to what I started, that the Committee on Papers of the Value of Organisations, which with the Privatisation Agency, the Action Fund and the Ministry of Finance, participated in the destruction of the economy through the privatisation process. After that, large capital was poured into the hands of individuals and, on the other hand, there are many people who welcome each new day thinking that they will survive. We had opportunities to see that from today on, food products, gas, heating and home chemistry are more expensive. This first group of people, who have a lot, are not burdened with it, but this second one, more and more poor, really doesn't see a way out. This is the result of the government in the past ten years, which has not taken care that everyone has the same chances, as she promised. At this point, the government doesn't care about how people are in the north of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62697	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to participate in the work in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint single search of the 26th and 27th agendas. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Vlad Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62698	Thank you. If Serbia were a legally regulated, economically independent state, then the debate on the points of today's agenda could also come under routine. But reality is completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Securities of Values is declared to be an independent and independent organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible for carrying out operations to the National Assembly, but the powers of the Commission are not originally but entrusted, which means that trusted tasks, in accordance with the Law on State Administration, are carried out by various agencies, authorities of the administration, etc. If there is a value charter commission in the country's institutional structure, then its powers are certainly not the competences of any ministry, but its original ones, because if jurisdiction is entrusted, then the commission, you will agree, is not necessary. According to the International Charter of Values, the Commission should provide the following basic objectives: investor protection, fair, efficient and transparent financial market, reduction of systemic risk. These objectives mean that, firstly, the tasks of the Commission should be clearly defined in the law as protecting investors and market integrity; secondly, it is necessary to ensure the effective power of regulators in the supervisory function; thirdly, there should be development systems that allow for the revision and provide responsibility of regulators, but which at the same time do not question the integrity of supervisory functions and do not harm clients. Otherwise, this institutional independence rests on three elements: the appointment and discharge of the administration of regulators, the governance structure of the regulator itself and the openness of the decision-making process. When it comes to regulatory independence, it is particularly important to bear in mind that, so far, legal uncertainty in inadequate powers has been tried by the Commission to fill in using its statutes and other sublaws. And this current situation has only further deteriorated, because it has not solved problems with inadequate competencies, and the fact that the Commission is doing all the jobs, as from the Government, restricts its regulatory power and neutralises efforts to respond properly to the development of the market in question by adopting sublegislative acts. The Commission is obliged to deliver to the Ministry of Finance any regulations and any other sub-legal regulation which has been placed in the jurisdiction to be taken into account by the Ministry of Finance, as it performs the tasks of its jurisdiction as entrusted tasks. The existing effective powers of the Commission are quite limited, one normal development has been disabled, given that any jurisdiction, alteration of jurisdiction and powers are necessary, an amendment to the law itself or the approval of the Ministry of Finance, in the case of sublegal acts. I repeat, the Commission must have original powers and its regulatory power must not be limited by the approval of another body. What's next is the big problem that turns this body into one barren body is the complete absence of its operational independence. Even, for example, the National Bank of Serbia can operate on its own, while the Commission does not have the possibility. So it would have to be equipped with all instruments for one truly effective supervision of the financial market. In addition, the relevant legislative rules should, of course, be very specific when it comes to restrictions on the level of decision-making, the process, the time allowed to appeal to the decisions of the supervisory authorities. Among other things, it should certainly allow the Commission to impose mandates and a little later on this. Under the applicable law, the Commission does not have the power to search, confiscation of documents, which is certainly essential for the detection of trade or the use of privileged information or various manipulative behaviour. Therefore, it does not have the investigative powers to take temporary measures, and especially those to whom the situation in surveillance is found freezes to the end of surveillance, which was of paramount importance for a successful inspection. Of course, what my colleague Dimitrijevic was saying was that, first of all, this personal, and the Commission's financial independence was never at the necessary level. I would just like to remind you that the Commission has had major problems with not adopting the financial plan on several occasions, even that of the Commission's annual account for 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 which have not even been adopted. The position of the SRS is clear, which is that it is necessary to prevent the impact of the policy on the appointment of the members of the Commission, and in this sense we believe that it is of paramount importance to form two structures within the Commission, which is the governing and supervisory one. When it comes to selecting members of these bodies, he would certainly have to be followed by some kind of public conversation with candidates before the relevant assembly committee. The most important instrument of the supervisory authority would certainly be an internal audit and it must in general be independent of the management structure and must operate in accordance with the best practices of the internal audit. In this way, this power of supervision, as well as the political responsibility for the Commission's work, would certainly be shared, and thus would certainly allow the removal of its action from the day-to-day political developments. In particular, it is necessary to specify and define the role of executive and legislative authorities in determining the size and use of the budget and to prevent and prevent potential obstructions. What we consider a strategically important goal is to strengthen both regulatory and supervisory functions over financial markets. It is necessary to redefine the jurisdiction of the regulatory body, increase its actual capacity to monitor, define the status as an unequivocal and factually independent body, both from the government and from market participants who also have an impact. Whether this can be achieved by strengthening the existing institution, so the Securities Commission, or as there are other proposals, by forming a new one to monitor all financial activities, and banking and insurance and funds and the financial market, is a matter of some other assessment. What is evident is that Serbia needs significant changes in the regulation of the securities market, because, ultimately, the main goal is to attract more foreign investors and these changes should certainly allow for a clear legal basis which unfortunately does not exist in Serbia today. What's amazing is that the Charter Commission, for example, has never punished a single market participant for a larger offense, even though they are speculated and knows that they were certainly there, and if the Commission is weak and cannot implement the laws, then it is a clear signal to the participants in the capital market that there is obviously some possibility of getting away and when they should be punished. When I talk about this, you remember the specific example itself, the majority package of the Evening News campaign, owned by two Austrian companies Trimax Investments, 24.99% and Ardos Holding, 24.90%, the Cypriot company Karamat 12.55%, whose real owners were officially unknown for a long time. But then he confirmed his ownership of "News" Milan Beko by saying that it was never disputed that he owned "Ardosa", "Trymax" and "Karamatata", i.e. that he owned 62.4% of the action "Evening News". What does that mean? This means that it has been confirmed that these actions were purchased illegally and that in 2006, thanks to the institutions that allowed it, it was illegally held in possession of them, because they are companies that are related legal entities. Which is the biggest absurd, even after public recognition that these are his enterprises, the Securities Commission has taken several months to establish that fact officially. A large part of the problem stemmed from the same cause, which is marginalising the market and the lack of the will of political factors to make it possible to develop it. So is the absence of investment funds that are an extremely important link in the development of the capital market, then a controversial takeover law that has removed a few of the largest domestic companies from the market, etc. To conclude, for some appropriate application, the Commission should be, and obviously it is not and will not be through such a change in the Statute, an operational, financial independent institution. Is there enough knowledge to perform such a function, enough authority, political support? It seems to me that we will also agree that there is no such thing as any of this, and all for the purpose of it was to be one effective control, to have influence, to have open pressures from the Executive Authority on the Commission, and that is a fact that cannot be avoided practically since the Commission was set up. The choice of members of the Commission has already been discussed. Obviously, the party principle is respected, and what kind of pressures may have been the best example, i.e. it was visible in the event of the acquisition of the mineral water producer "Knjiz Milos" in Arangelovac in 2004. The main problem of protecting investors in the capital market in Serbia is mostly seen in this finding of a solution to improve the efficiency of the application of legislation. However, this authority obviously does not have the ability to find a way to settle things properly, and therefore it is high time that this problem, as well as many others who have accumulated over the past decade, are left to others who will do so better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62699	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think that indeed my colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic and Mr Vladan Jeremic, what they said really stands, and that nothing can go right in this country, at least when it comes to the functioning of the authorities and its institutions and that indeed this document that we're talking about now points to the fact that it's really mature time for Serbia to break up with such a policy, such a political concept and with the principles of irresponsibility that the current government is handling when it makes decisions, adopts plans, verifies someone's documents, i.e. creating administrative preconditions for all segments of this society and these countries to function properly. Since we as the Assembly, or committees, are proposing these documents, I will address those who chair the assembly today and ask why does this have to go like this, Mrs. Djukanovic? You know, it doesn't take a lot of sense to follow procedure. It just takes a little political responsibility. This is not a document, or a document before we give consent to, it's not some document that requires the engagement of some superior mind, science, university, institution, etc. This is something that represents routine or practice. This is something very clearly defined by procedures and deadlines under these procedures. The authorities were asked only to respect the deadlines she had committed herself. Here's the problem. On October 1st, we adopt a document that entered the procedure a year ago. That's not naive at all. This isn't beer law. (President: Today is November 1st. Worse. (President: It's not worse. You know we didn't sit on our hands. You know we were working. Now I'll tell you. We've done everything right and shouldn't. Thank you for correcting me, because it's even worse than November 1st. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will not burden you with your guilt, but you have all these responsibilities as well. The deadline in accordance with the documents or statutes for the adoption of the financial plan for next year is 30 November. So you have 30 days to adopt the Commission's financial plan for values for 2012. We are today adopting a financial plan for 2011. Or, I'm sorry, we're discussing it, and in the day of the vote, you'll adopt it. What are you going to verify with that, do you know? What if there were public procurements as in the public company Resavica, which I was talking about? You in the voting day should create a prerequisite for them to access public procurement in accordance with the law. Who knows how they've been implemented so far? How is it possible that in one country that boasts of market principles and so on. The European Perspectives Commission has been working on a decision on temporary financing for years? If it were someone else, they might join them in incriminating the Assembly, but, when it comes to the Securities Commission, no. There's no man there without a criminal record. You know why? For robbing the Serbian state. Remember "Luke", remember the company "News", Milan Beka, etc. But it's not the worst place here. These guys here are proposing him to be prime minister. Tomislav Nikolic believes Milan Beko would make a good prime minister. This isn't the worst, there are worse things. But it is a pity that the mark of irresponsibility is placed on the National Assembly and all of us MPs who have really done nothing to make it so. Imagine that the Securities Commission says to you: "We are free to remind you that the National Assembly has not adopted a report on the Commission's business and financial plans for several years, not even for the previous year. We indicate that this is an unsustainable situation, both from the point of view of respect for the law and from the position of ensuring the Commission's day-to-day operational functioning." Now we're gonna pretend nothing's going on. Let's keep it that way. Today is the deadline for the assembly procedure to enter the budget for next year. A revised report on fiscal responsibility was scheduled to enter here on 15 October. So it was last year, so it was last year, and so it would be next year if, God forbid, you stayed in power. But it's not about you leaving, it's about not being inherited worse than you. That's the point. That is why our mission today, the SRS mission, is to show the public that it is not obliged to put up with all this and that the policy that Serbia has been handling for the past 10 years really needs to be crossed. What our relationship is political and personal to the EU is completely irrelevant. We despise the European institutions and their relationship with Serbia, their relationship with KIM, their relationship with the president of the SRS. What's the difference between your relationship with all the three categories I've listed? As Government for nine years, you've been silent about Vojislav Seselj, and you don't have the courage to raise your voice. Not to mention the circus you're making about KIM declarations. We despise it, and it's all disgusting to us. That's the easiest we can say. We ask you, does this work in any of the orderly states of the European continent? Is that possible out there? They're projecting their budgets for seven years to come. You are not in a position to comply with the procedure as one document, a small, insignificant document of a commission in this country, whose importance is not diminished because we are also defined for the development of the capital market in Serbia, you cannot bring it in line with the deadlines. I'm only gonna focus on this last year. In the last year alone, you haven't been able to adopt this for a year. You know why I'm asking you this now? Here, to prove that things aren't very declarative, in the light of this document it says -- they called for this document in accordance with a law no longer in force. How can the Assembly adopt a document proposed to the Assembly in accordance with the Law on the Market of Papers that was put out of force several months ago? All deadlines on which and in accordance with which the Government was obliged and obliged to adopt sublaws with a new law on the capital market. We are now adopting a document in accordance with a law that is no longer in force. An objective question is also raised, and fellow lawyers probably know better – does this have legal meaning and justification, logic? What else did you say? It was based on macroeconomic indicators and forecasts for next year. Here a few days ago you voted for the budget that was changed based on the parameters listed here, because they missed macroeconomic and other projections and indicators, so this was projected according to the inflation rate that proved not to be well projected – the largest on the European continent here in Serbia. You are now agreeing to a document that is obviously completely missed, as well as fiscal policy for 2011. What are we looking at here? Indeed, in both political and parliamentary and procedural terms, this is the height of degutancy. But it really is. You still say what money was spent on here, or if someone knows whether it's spent or not, I'd really like them to tell me. It is said: "Projects and costs for strengthening the securities market – nine million and 206". Here, somebody get out of the current government today and praise the capital market in Serbia. And that's the worst part of the European continent. The most expensive capital market is in Serbia. Compared to 2008, the year has been reduced seven to ten times. Indexes on the Belgrade Stock Exchange have a continuity of declines over the last few years permanently, there are neither large nor small investors. We ask you -- how much for all these years did you ensure that Serbian companies and businesses provide their business in financial terms on the capital market? We're asking you what you've been spending on, what has the Securities Commission spent this money on since they say it was meant for value-building projects? The largest item in their budget – the cost of teaching to acquire the call of brokers, portfolio managers etc. As we produce portfolio managers and brokers, companies that can get into the capital market are melting. It's the same story with the serial production of doctors in the industry that we don't need – lawyers, economists or other titles, for which Serbia really has no objective need, so we'll make managers, and having nothing to do or for whom to work, it doesn't matter. This is nice – about the cost of the country. The fact is that the Charter Commission is financed from its own income, but these revenues, if they were to represent excess and rationally spent, would be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but what do you care about, these are spent who knows how, in what size and in what structure you will now give them this. So they can't function unless you give them consent to an amended financial plan, and then they have to operate on the principles of temporary business, let alone at the beginning of the year or before the beginning of the year, don't give them consent to the financial plan for next year. This is all really funny. The Serbian Radical Party really wants to participate in this sort of thing. It's not our relationship, I repeat, according to the capital market, it's our relationship to your irresponsibility, according to your disrespect for the documents you've committed yourself to. We ask you once again - what happens to criminal charges of the Anti-Corruption Council against all those involved in the Securities Commission, involved, participated or responsible for the robbery of state property? What about these people? What about those reports? In all this, the Serbian Radical Party has no intention of participating. It is our duty today to point out to the public that you are completely irresponsible. As the elections in this country get closer, this same country is becoming less and less interesting to you, the only thing that matters to you is that perhaps a better and better position for the next election is taking place. We truly believe this will end in the next elections, that the Serbian Radical Party will be able to convince citizens to deserve a turn in economic, fiscal, social and any other policy and that after these next elections, Serbia's collapse will begin to stop in time to put Serbia on its feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62701	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman. He's not here. Then I give my word to MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62702	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, please, as long as it takes my exposure not to leave the hall, because I have economic problems when Mrs. Comic is chaired, so that you can give me that satisfaction until I finish this speech so that I can speak properly. So, the role of the Committee on Papers from the values that we have on the agenda today has definitely remained unknown, both in its operation and in its behaviour through the privatisation process, through the measurement of stock prices, through the purchase of state-owned enterprises, through the destruction of the state budget, and because of the way the state treats state capital and the budget to be increased and not reduced. What is recognizable to this authority, in fact for the government of DOS parties in different time periods, is the same as that of a depect who says – spending, debt and damage, is that individual companies located in state-owned property are now in private hands thanks to systems such as the Securities Commission systems, which allow just about to enable rich people and tycoons or any so-called known businessmen to repossess what is state-owned and put into their own interest or for their own benefit. That is why we do not have a report today on the work of the Securities Commission, but we have on the agenda the adoption of the Financial Plan, in fact the 2011 budget, although November 2011 has just begun and we do not have a report on the work of the members of the Commission, and we do not have a report on the spending of these funds, let alone any other draft budget plan for 2012 for the same commission. This is another proof that this government, not respecting its own legal frameworks itself, cannot allow the capital market, in fact the state budget, to be multiplied, but to allow it to be spent openly and transparently as cheaply as possible. I will remind you, it is my duty and obligation, only to some abuses in which the State Securities Commission has contributed to some state-owned enterprises being damaged and put into the hands of individuals, such as those called modern businessmen, and in our view we can freely say business criminals. I will remind you of the shutting down of four of the largest Serbian banks that did "Deloitte&touce", of course, on the rise of then-government official, Minister Dinkic, who gave first a positive, and then, if necessary, a negative opinion on the value of these banks, which alone did not have any reaction to the value charters. The other thing is the sale of Sartida, where "Deloitte&touche" again plays an active role, sells hardware to Americans for 23 million. Although he then became co-owner of the "Deloitte&touce" president of the US Chamber of Commerce for Serbia, the privatisation ended in such a way, without the Commission's reaction. The privatisation of Imleka, the privatisation of Hemofarm, in which the Management Board of the company "Deloitte&touche" initially worked as an assessment and then eventually carried out the privatisation of the "C Market". Then I will also read to you the letter of the director of "C Market" to the Government's Anti-Corruption Office, in which a meeting of the company with "EKI Invest" was held on 19 August 2005, owned by Darko Djunic, signed a memorandum of understanding in the interests of the national economy, where Miskovic, Beko and Slobodan Radulovic were present and was then agreed under the auspices of Prime Minister Kostunica to "Delta" buy the "C Market" because he personally initiated the meeting. I'll remind you of the knock-off price for the Energy Project action. You remember that it turned out that some FK companies "Partizan", in which she was known as the Dragian affair, had knocked down the price of Enhel himself in Belgrade. Sky Electronics, owned by the FK "Partizan", sold 36,503 actions just prior to the closure of trade on the stock exchange in Belgrade at a drastically lower price than the market. Also, energy project shareholders claim in a statement that the Sky Electronics company bought from October 20th 2006 to April 17th 2007 and sold shares that exceed 800,000 euros. The shareholders in this letter that we received say they believe that the recent purchase of the 787 "Energoproject" by Sky Electronics is an insight into the new speculation. The statement said Sky Electronics recorded a 165,000-euro business loss last year. The question arises - if someone bought more than 400,000 euros in shares and could sell them at a market price of 800,000 euros, what did the Securities Commission do? Then he sold them at 600,000 euros and then we don't know what the problem with this company is, in fact, what's the issue, which is why the company was even selling the shares. Who's here as a loser, that's how he behaves, otherwise he'd be in the FK "Partizan". In the board of directors at the time was co-owner of "EKI" Dragan Lazarevic, and immediately after the affair of Dragjan, which I mentioned, she was admitted to a club of businessmen on Shakespeare Street, which is tasked with creating in some way laws that come before the MPs. I'll remind you of the TV "Fox" and "Avala", which Djindjic himself bought and helped as a TV "Fox".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62703	People's MP, I'm going to remind you of article 106 and the obligation to talk about the agenda. In six minutes and 40 seconds, you have not touched on the subject of the agenda – the Financial Plan of the Commission for Securities of Values and a proposal for consent to the Statute of the Securities Commission, so I ask you to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62704	Mrs. Komic, if you have read the Statute, you will see that certain members are connected to the price of the actions I am talking about here. It's completely unnecessary...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62705	People's MP, I wouldn't interrupt you and remind you that I haven't read the material and that I don't know what kind of material is on the agenda, as I wouldn't do if I didn't listen very carefully to you and during the time you've spent so far, you haven't touched the subject of the agenda at any moment, which is your obligation under Article 106, as I am obliged to give you criminal measures for the will to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that bind us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62706	Mrs. Komic, there's no need to threaten me, because I'm just trying to let everyone know that the Securities Committee in the past period has no consent to the SRS, actually its parliamentary club, for a financial plan ahead of us on the agenda. Therefore, in order to justify why there is no agreement, the role must be fully presented to the public through their operation in the previous period. I don't see anything controversial about it, because it's defined by the Statute itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62707	People's MP, I'm warning you now for the first time. I listened very carefully. Your exposure has nothing to do with the role of the Securities Commission. This is the first warning of a warning measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62708	Okay, I'm contesting moral credibility. You don't understand, but I'll continue as I started. So, with a public takeover offer that's over...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62709	People's messenger, second warning, before giving the measure of warning. The time we spend at the session, we spend on exposure in the agenda. This is a second warning, and then there's a warning measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62710	You won't let me finish my speech, and you'll give me a warning. That's not correct on your part. You don't know... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62711	People's MP, I warned you twice that it was your duty and my obligation to talk about the agenda, you, and I remind you of that. By looking at the stenogram, you'll see that I reminded you that in no word in six minutes and 45 seconds, you haven't touched the subject of the agenda. Do not delay your political decision to argue on the subject, however you wish, and in line with the political position of your party and your parliamentary group, you must do so on the subject of the agenda. If you want to talk about the agenda, please log in and you can continue, as you have time available. Would you like some? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62712	I have here, in front of me, a report from the Council on the fight against corruption of the Republic of Serbia, which is the official document and letter from the Director of the "C Market" and the Privatisation Report of the Company "News", mentioned by the president of this council, the Agency, in fact, to the Securities Committee. What is very important in this report is the direct participation of the Securities Commission, which has contributed to the price of the "C Market" action in the same period on the Belgrade Stock Exchange twice changed and interpreted, so that it allows business, purchase and privatisation under the pressure of the then government structure and it is an official document. There's an open buckle. I don't know what's going on here. What is also controversial is a financial plan presented to the MPs who are supposed to enable the work of securities of value, which is currently challenging their way of working that I am trying to explain here. Since you don't allow it to happen to me, because obviously you don't have a hearing for the Securities Agency, and since I can't talk about crime, because it's obviously not allowed here, in which the Securities Committee participates, I'm going to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62713	People's MP, you've received two warnings, willing to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Unlike you, I only respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and know what is written in the subject of the act that is before us. Your view that you may demean other participants and talk about whatever you want and call it freedom of speech is in conflict with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which says we are all obliged to talk about the agenda. If there was any hope that speaking the measure of caution would lead to self-respect and respect, I would do so. Since it is not available, seven minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62714	Excuse me, how much time do we have, Mrs. Comic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62715	You have 28 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62716	I will make sure that what Mr. Avramovic skipped, I include in my discussion. Mrs. Comic...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62717	Excuse me, MP, the secretary has already taken away, you have 36 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62718	Okay, I'm not gonna spend that time just like that. I will honor you who are for the EU, a few minutes. So we're having a merger. We have the Commission's financial plan for securities of value for 2011 and we have a proposal for the Statute of the same and the Commission for securities of value. The Statute shall be adopted in order to comply with the new Law on the Market of Securities of Values. The Capital Market Act is a new name for the law that we adopted here a few months ago. Of course, we will not vote and we will not give consent to this Statute, because we believe that there are several details in the Statute or several members who do not comply with the new Capital Market Act, and above all these provisions apply to the status of the Securities Commission. I would, above all, make a point to Article 10 of this Statute, in particular those provisions on the selection and resolution of members of the Securities Commission. For what? Almost nothing has changed in relation to the existing practice, when it comes to the Securities Commission. You remember, after that big affair, about taking action "Knjiza Miloša", that there was a kind of confusion – Divac, Danilović, Labus, Štimac. Is that right, Mr. Novakovic? That was a long time ago. He was going to die, remember? He had a heart attack. It's over. It's not a problem. He's alive, thank God. In the eskimo of all possible pressures, Mr. Stimac, resigns. All the time he was under his resignation, until a few months ago, when he was re-elected as a member of the Securities Commission. We believe that this is an absolutely unacceptable solution when it comes to the status of the Securities Commission. So, the status issues of the Securities Commission. There's something here that's been held up. So they always remain in office until they are relieved of their duties by the National Assembly. The resignation of Štimtsov came to the National Assembly, but was never put on the agenda. He, a man, performs a function, no problem, until July of this year. We re-elected the Securities Commission in July. He is no longer the President of the Commission, but a member of the Commission. Now Zoran Cirovic is the president of the Commission. We think that this provision allows, this provision in the Statute, to always ensure the legitimacy of these people and to ensure the legality of their decisions, although it may be something rotten at the very heart of that Securities Commission. We had other members of the Commission who resigned last time because of the "Knjiz Milos" affair. You know, resignation is a personal act. When a man resigns to a post, he no longer enters that institution. A transitional solution can be made for a few days until the empty place is filled. Basically, this place is empty. We had a situation, a man is still in the commission, just because his resignation didn't go through the National Assembly. Make it a month, but god forbid, I've been at Stymick's for four years, you know? You can see that this condition can be a long-term patient state. So there's no respect for the individual's will here - I'm resigning, I don't want to work anymore. Why is this dangerous, if all the powers and powers of the Securities Commission are known? Now, can such a solution stay if we know, here I'm just going to count some of those little jobs that the Securities Commission is doing. So, who's going to be "Castody Bank," depends on the Commission's worth-of-chart. We have 12 banks here. How can this work be done by a commission when in its composition someone doesn't want to be, and the law and statutes keep him there, and these banks should keep records of value and trade with securities of value. Next, look where he got mixed up with the NBS. They're also wondering about authorized banks, and there's 10 authorized banks. I beg your pardon, a serious man should decide on these powers. Furthermore, the Investment Fund Management Society, and this is where the Commission asks for more than value, and here we have nine investment fund management companies, all foreigners by name, since Serbian is banned there. So then the investment funds are twenty-one investment funds, and that's what the Commission is asking for more than value. Well, then, keeping a register of professional investors, there's four of them. It's such a serious thing, it's impossible for these jobs to be done by July of this year, by a few people who were left behind. Now someone might conclude - why didn't the National Assembly put it on the agenda? Don't ask me, the SRS never set the agenda for the National Assembly session. Is there a cover in any law? There is. There is coverage in some law, but that coverage in that law was not given with this objective, but was given with the aim of speeding up the procedure, to determine that resignation was made. The procedure is being accelerated and has been going on for four years. Four years, a very effective deadline. Then we come to the conclusion – it cannot be touched there even though there are internal problems, because there is something above, something more, something more significant. You need to know that this commission is also writing rules about how dealers and brokers are going to work, it's also very important for the capital market, but it's in our beginnings, very modest. Do you know that these people sitting in that commission decide on the fee and commission that the brokerage-dealers companies have and charge the clients for intermediation in the trading of debt securities? There are 44 subjects who got permission to do this job. Their tariffs and their price list of services shall be determined by the Commission more than their value. It is similar with fees and fees from brokerage companies charged to stock brokers. It's those free shares, remember, and you can trade them. Here we have 44 and here is the price list – the physical face of 500 dinars for registration, and the receipt of a client's order, and the change of orders, and the opposition of the given order, and the termination of the contract, and the intervention on the market, and the intervention on the basis of private offers, etc. That commission is not a cat's cough, it's a very significant para-state organ. Not to talk about the part where they're wondering and what they're wondering is a condition for the Central Securities Register. It's all charged. It's a very serious subject. These serious topics do not allow for this kind of relationship when it comes to the status of the Commission in a more valuable way. You can't have singing society out there. Now I want to be a member, now I don't want to be a member, now I'm getting high pressure, now I'm being pressed, etc. I express great amazement – how could the Commission, more than the values, go past the law and past its statutes, allow the Regional Finance Secretariat of Vojvodina to buy out Metals Bank's actions in a secret procedure? I was looking for him, Mrs. Komic, for the team and the Stimac confessed to me. Autonomous province is not a state, but all its authorities are authorities of territorial autonomy. The state authorities are only at the level of the Republic of Serbia and they do not have the exclusive right that without a public call they can in secret process capitalise on a bank. Why was that done? Because of the opinions that came from the Ministry of Finance. Later, a big affair opened between Darko Saric, Metals Bank, etc. I expect you'll still be arrested, not by you, but by the competent state authorities, but they've kept something quiet. That story can't be closed. Why? Because that story came from the Vojvodine Development Bank. The story raises the question of the Capital Investment Fund in the AP Vojvodina. You remember when all the organs are skipped and directly with the local community are agreed to asphalt before the elections, etc. Among us, large debts remained in municipalities where the additional elections were held, as the promises were only valid until the weekend of the vote. The Securities Commission must be an extremely clear body with precise powers and that it does not have them – I will, I will not. Secondly, they write the rules, they share licenses, they're also a teaching-science base to make someone a broker, a dealer, so they can even work with securities of value. It's very serious stuff. It shows – a member of the Securities Commission must be constantly employed by the Commission. I know, it's a rule of law. However, if so, then you have to answer the question -- how is it possible that members of the commission have some additional activities at some other levels? Someone's gonna jump and say it's not true. Look at the names and last names and see where they were all engaged, not where they were hired before they were elected, but also after the election of these functions. But somebody else do research, because when I do research, it's usually said I'm wrong, so it's been two months, so I'm right. Let's go to this financial plan for 2011. Few people in this country know that the Commission has this non-financial independence. However, anything that is an excess of expenditure revenue in one year, the Commission has to pay more than value in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Do they pay? How much do they pay for it? In order to answer these two questions, it is necessary to see what revenue is and what the Commission's expenditures are more than worth, and this stands in the Commission's financial plan for a charter than the value of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm going to take what's available to the public, report some data, see how it's misbehaved there by people who are responsible for the financial operations of the Commission more than worth. I draw attention, they in their business, so the revenues and expenditures of the Securities Commission must, by definition, be good hosts, because this should be a good reference to them, so that they can do these surveillance jobs in quality and everything else regarding their basic competence towards all participants in the financial market. If they are not good hosts in their home, they cannot be of quality when they control outside their home what is the original jurisdiction of the Securities Commission. Of course, the 2011 financial plan has its own prehistory, and that is to see how the commission was created, how the revenues and expenditures of that commission were generated. For starters, I must say they have a tariff rule. They're authorized to bring their tariff rules. This Regulation allows them to charge their services to participants in the financial market. It starts with the approval of the prospectus, there's 0.25% of the nominal value of the emissions, but no less than 200,000 dinars, or more than 5 million dinars. It is now classified according to tariff numbers according to jurisdiction. So the first part refers to the issue of securities of value, the second part refers to authorised participants, the third part of brokers, investment advisers and portfolio managers, the fourth part concerns licences, the fifth part of the Investment Funds Act, the Act on the acquisition of stock companies and ultimately the supervision they carry out – public companies and other fees. There's a total of 73 tariff numbers. This tariff rule corresponds to the Administrative Tax Act. You know, we have the Law on Administrative Taxes with several members, and then there goes the table display of how much it costs for this, the request for that, the solution, the assignment, the appeal, etc. There are incomparably multiple tariff numbers there. Approval, for example, status, professional investor from Article 11. The capital market law is 100,000 dinars. The approval of the primary offer of securities of value, when they are issuers of the autonomous province and units of local self-government, goes in percentages, but no more than 500,000 dinars. We have a tax of 500,000, of 200,000, of 150,000, of 220, of the portfolio manager, that's with the broker, so to pass exams for the broker 8,000 dinars, for these other managers and advisors 22,000 and so on. We have a market organizer of the Central Charter Register of Values – 200,000 dinars cost that tax, the fee paid. So they took advantage of their authority on the side of the income. So these are the amounts to be paid. When financial market participants pay it, it is the Commission's revenue on securities of value. I draw you particular attention, they had a plan both in 2009 and in 2010 and they have it for 2011. In 2009, they planned 307 million and made 178 million. In 2010, they planned 327 million and made 97 million. Look what a drastic fall that is. Why? Because the capital market in the Republic of Serbia is simulated. That's what they would say - at a very low level is the total traffic and trade of securities of value. Why? Because they mostly trade banks. Private investors occasionally appear, citizens more rarely, but even when they report, they report by the insider system, have information that is worth investing in, where big growth can be achieved. What records of value? Of course, state securities are most interesting because there is no state that approves such a large interest rate of those who lend funds to the Republic of Serbia because there is a permanent hole in the ongoing financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's something like this a month ago, when I think it's a billion-dollar bond. What were they planning for this year? They planned 338 million dinars. Now let's just focus a little bit on how it went with expenditures per year. You see, they planned 307 million in 2009 and made 178. How much did they spend? They spent 176. In 2010, they planned 327 million and made 96 million. They planned to spend 327, and they spent 140 million. What's between 97 and 140? Who covered that? Something suspicious is happening here. The auditor will probably find an answer to this question. I was just telling you about the fact that they currently have 40 employees and have mass incomes. They're doing a tough administrative job. I'm afraid I didn't mistake these papers. Let's see how it goes with their public procurement, since they are obliged to implement the procedure prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. Now that you look at that supply plan, you can imagine, the most money they spend on toners. Toners, that's what it says. It says 775,000. Fuel for official travel – 636.000. Bife Commission - 400,000. What's so expensive about coffee? Lap cannons. Funny to you? That's what they wrote, I read to you what they wrote, Mrs. Comic. It's funny to me, too, but also sad. Lap cannons – 3,066,000. Servers – 1.500,000. Computer network – 555,000. It's a little more expensive coffee than a computer network. Commercial software, office material and services – 2.950,000. Maintenance of rooms – 800,000. Maintaining a copy of the apparatus - 500,000. Legalization of software, licensed – 1,300,000. This is only in one part of their cost, one small part. That's what they were supposed to show. I'm not going to keep reporting this information. They have something and it's not procurement under the Public Procurement Act, it's been released, there's no obligation. Then the question arises, please, 300 and a few million dinars per 40 employees? How much is that on the head of an employed couple? Then you have information that their salary is between 70,000 and 140,000, and these are the minimum. Where are these others? Now they've submitted a proposal for a financial plan for us to confirm it. Can we confirm this financial plan? Do we have the moral right to confirm this financial plan? We can have two approaches. The first approach – controlled by investment funds, banks, brokers, dealers, not drug dealers, but dealers on the financial market. They all have much higher salaries and personal incomes, so it doesn't make sense that the social case controls the boss, so they don't buy it, they have to get paid, they have to be invulnerable. That's one approach. We can have another approach, as it is in the environment and in the EU. Do not use this approach, please, because then you will also have to secure citizens' revenues according to some EU standard. You can't even mention that part. You are in the story of Europe and the EU, as the only alternative, all except personal income. You can't remind people of that. We can have third access. The third approach would be, in principle, as much money – so much music. However, this approach is not good. Why? Because if that approach were to prevail, then someone from G 17 plus, let's say a decorated minister could say -- that approach could also be with pension funds, as much as it contributes, so much that pensions are paid. Everything he doesn't have can't be worth it. And pensioners would burn at 45% of the income they now have. So that approach isn't good either. What approach would have to be the most measured? Maybe an approach to see how much the costs are, but all costs per employee and per official in the Republic of Serbia, so we can cut him off. You know, we're having extreme "good" cases broken by that average: the flight control agency, because it's an isolated part of the Republic of Serbia's organism, because they're supposed to run some standards. Furthermore, Serbia's state lottery, NBS, numerous agencies. Take a look at the government site of the Republic of Serbia's complete record of receipts in public enterprises and public agencies, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, and don't be surprised, these are February 2009 data. These are not 2011 data, what is on the government site of the Republic of Serbia. I've talked about it more than once, so I think it's a well-known thing now. Which approach to take? Don't you think it's a little weird that 40 people are in some alleged organ, charging their incomes, having guaranteed incomes. First, their income, as the request comes, must be paid, it is impossible to get an opinion, a solution, a license, etc. It can't. You can stand trial so you don't pay your taxes, so you'll have to pay later. You have to pay here, so the Commission takes the case to work. So, from the point of view of income -- protected, from cost -- as much as they want to spend. Can he tell them – hey, cut it down a bit. You got it. And you know who he is, Mrs. Comic? The National Assembly. The National Assembly can tell them – enough, stop, you can't do that. Although we are all willing to say - enough, it can't do that anymore, now is the chance not to give consent to the financial plan and to the statutes of the Securities Commission, so to close all open stories: to submit resignations, to give opinions. You can imagine, this Securities Commission, according to their website, their data, has only given one public notice to one dealer, only one public notice on three sides. Look, the question is, people, is it worth a 700-pound bull for three kilos of liver? It's not worth it, people. No host would do that in his own house. Why should we at the National Assembly blanco give consent? I know it is a shock for everyone – is it possible that this is such an important topic that radicals spend an hour? It is an all-important topic in the Republic of Serbia. All about state and paralegal authorities is the most important topic of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has a special responsibility because there is no one above this commission except the National Assembly, as there is no one above the NBS but the National Assembly. We have to raise our voice, if we're willing to turn that wheel or if that wheel starts in another direction to turn. If we go to a system of consent, consent or not to chat where it doesn't belong, etc., then the National Assembly becomes an accomplice to this. The National Assembly must hear the truth. We can disagree on the political views on how to get rid of this. Now let me tell you, as far as the SRS is concerned, we don't agree with this concept at all, that's what we said, and when the law was passed, we also pointed out when it was the NBS Act, back in 2003, that this is a bad solution if the Finance Committee proposes to the initiative of parliamentary groups, etc., not to spread the subject. We said it all. Let it be like this. It'll pass. The Bodrum came to us, remember, Mrs. Comic? Thanks to Bodrum, someone's chosen. Just a reminder, you know, this is a serious topic. You know how much Bodrum has caused you trouble, you've lost power over Bodrum, among other things. So the National Assembly must not bend its head, it must speak, these problems must be solved. If these problems are not solved, then problems accumulate and then, at some point, wherever you turn – the problem, you do not know what to solve. We need to act a little bit preventively. I hope I didn't overstep anything. Thank you for your patience to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62719	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not yet used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic. Time is available for four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a reason I have divided this discussion into two parts, because in the first part I said that the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, who is proposing these points of the agenda, which we are talking about today, is that we expect a concrete answer from the opposition, which is why the National Assembly did not adhere to the law when it comes to confirming the financial plans of the Securities Commission. At this point, while we're having a debate, there's no committee reporter in the O.R. again. The president of the assembly's answer that we haven't sat down in vain, we don't admit it. We expected one concrete answer, and we could only receive such a response from the Finance Committee's rapporteur, as the promoter of these points. There is nothing left for us from the opposition but to see no reason to avoid the debate in the Assembly on the Securities Commission and what it did and the role it had in privatising the capital of the Republic of Serbia. There have been some staff changes in the composition of the Commission this year. The President of the Commission has been changed, we talked about the resignations of individual members. As far as it has to be said, the National Assembly has decided to also confirm the financial plan along the way and to confirm the Statute of the Commission for Securities of Values. I mentioned a change in the President of the Commission. It is important to reiterate that the current president of the Commission, former Assistant Finance Minister, was elected in July this year. Whether he was Assistant Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic or Minister Diana Dragutinovic, it is quite irrelevant, since both Mr Cvetkovic and Mrs Dragutinovic are members of the Ces Mekon family, a consulting house that has conducted property assessments in the privatisation process. Just to point out that the family member was also a member of the family of the owner of the Ces Mekon, who was a significant figure at the Privatisation Agency. The group from Ces Mekon took up most of the significant financial positions in Serbia. Those who participated together in the destruction of the Serbian economy have distributed themselves from the consulting house in order and destroy all that remains. Among other things, our position is that and for this reason, the National Assembly did not want to discuss, in order not to discuss the results of the CES Mekon group and some other consulting houses about the Securities Committee, the Privatisation Agency, the Action Fund, the Ministry of Finance, and the results of their work, as well as the whole of these authorities, citizens feel every day about their skin. The decline in living standards is increasing, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, guaranteed by the Constitution, has been questioned by one citizen of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Seselj, in The Hague, by what the whole world has not seen. There's nothing to be proud of this government, but there's a lot to be responsible for, and when you're called to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-01-0.u62721	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right in Article 96? The Rules of Procedure report for a word, to exercise his right? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to confirm the Commission's financial plan for 2011 and a proposal to give its consent to the Statute of the Securities Commission. With this afternoon session, we are finishing our work at the National Assembly session today. The paper will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday, November 2nd at 10.00 p.m. by searching in particular for the National Strategy on the Protection and Rescue of Emergency Conditions and the Proposal for a Law on residence and residence of citizens. Depending on what rhythm we are doing there is a possibility, I announce this in accordance with Articles 90 and 87, the National Assembly will be informed tomorrow, that we are also doing a search of details and a proposal for a law on administrative inspection, which is the third item of the agenda. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present with the electronic voting system, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I also ask the MPs who are still at the Finance Committee meeting, as members, to enter the hall and to insert their cards into the electronic voting system, to determine that they are present in determining the daily quorum needed for work. I find that 85 MPs are present in the electronic system, have inserted their identification cards, and that a certain number of MPs are present in the hall, and that there are a Rules of Procedure established conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I'd like to inform you that she was prevented from attending the National Parliament of Hope Kuludji. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of the motionary Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Milan Markovic, the Minister of Human and Minority Rights of State Administration and Local Self-Government, called for the members to attend Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior and Zorica Loncar-Kasalica, head of the Directorate for Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. We continue our work and move on to the search in particular of the second item of the agenda – the proposal for the Law on residence and residence of the City. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petković, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Borislav Peljević, Mileta Poscura, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug, Radovan Radovanovic, Neman Žaranovic, Bojan Mladen, Bojan Mladenović, Zlata Žarić, Miro Žarić, Mirić, Miroćić and Mirić. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before the search begins on the first amendment submitted to Article 3 on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I shall give the following notice. Today's work of the National Assembly session will be debated on the details of the agenda item, so the amendments to the Law on residence and residence of citizens, which has just been opened, and when we do a search in detail on this agenda point, we will pass, in the afternoon part of the session and on the search in the details of the draft law on administrative inspection, so that if we need to do 18,00 hours later, and until the end of the search in the details of the next item of the agenda. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. National MP Srdjan Mikovic wants a word. Here you go.
