ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Milos Radulovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of Proposor Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, to attend Professor Slavoljub Vukicevic, secretary of state at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy and Dejan Lasica, assistant minister of infrastructure and energy. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the invitation of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was called upon by the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have been sent a request to hold the 11th extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in the request. As you could see, for the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the next Dn e n i d 1 was appointed. Proposal for a Law on Railways, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a patent law, submitted by the Government and 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was submitted by the Government. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to propose a joint principle search on: Proposal for a patent law and a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights (paragraphs 2 and 3 of the agenda). Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I'm voting on Mrs. Hope Kolundji's proposal. Of the 138 MPs, 122 are for a proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Railways You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs, which means that the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs to one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds, the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes, the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes, the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Manjin parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković, MP of the PUPS; MP Đorđe Milicevic, MP of the SPS – JS, MP of Zoran Shami - MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Bojan Djuric - MP of the LDP and MP Nikola Savic - ambassador of the SRS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure and energy, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59224	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as always, it is my hour to defend one of the laws in the area of traffic and infrastructure, the Law of Railways, in front of this high house. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on Railways is contained in Article 97(6). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, apart from the basic one, is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a system for the performance of certain businesses and other activities. An important railway law was passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on February 17th 2005. During the five-year period of monitoring and control of the application of the Law on Railways in the Ministry of Traffic Affairs, as well as the application and analysis of effects in the application of this law by the Railways Directorate, it has been established that it is necessary to access the adoption of a new law, all with a view to more efficient operations in the area of rail traffic. In particular, during the period during which the Law on Railways applies, the shortcomings of that law have been seen, which, above all, required compliance with the new packages of the European Union Directive, as well as the extension of the railways department, in order to ensure full and efficient application of the law. The main objectives of the bill are: one, improving the efficiency of the railway system of the Republic of Serbia, two, integrating the railway system of the Republic of Serbia into the transport services market and three, integrating the Serbian railway into the European Union rail system. The concept of the draft law on railways consists of the following elements – one, an independent business of railway undertakings, two, the creation of conditions for the emergence of several railway undertakings and railway infrastructure managers, which should lead to competition and increased quality of transport, three, the separation of the railway system to the part responsible for the management of railway infrastructure, the organisation and regulation of transport (infrastructure managers) and the part responsible for the transport of passenger and freight transport, the railway undertaking and their specific financing in subsidisation, four, the promotion of the development of intermodal traffic and five, the authority of the Railway Directorate, which has been given significant powers and significant operations in the area of the railway system. The significant paper adopted by the bill is the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, where the rights and obligations of the competent ministry, the Railway and Railway Enterprises Directorate will be highlighted. On a proposal from the Government, the National Programme shall be adopted by the National Assembly and shall constitute a planned act of national importance in the area of railway development. The bill specifically regulates access and use of railway infrastructure, fees for the use of railway infrastructure and services provided by the railway infrastructure manager, then a possible discount system of indicators to improve the quality of transport, management and monitoring of the allocated infrastructure capacity, as well as the use of containers and other railway transport units. The draft law lays down the procedure and way of accessing railway infrastructure and the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and allows market liberalisation under a new concept that will allow for the introduction of competition and improvement of service quality. The draft law empowers the Railway Directorate to carry out operations in the field of regulation of the rail market, then in the area of safety of interoperability of rail transport, as well as in the area of licensing of railway undertakings and infrastructure managers. The bill was made in co-operation with all the competent institutions in Serbia, as well as with the bodies of the European Commission responsible for transport and is in line with all EU directives to the extent permitted by our legal acts. The proposal for this law provides for a general deadline for the adoption of the rules implementing this law from 24 months from the date of entry into force of the Law on Railways. I expect that in a fruitful debate, you will improve the conditions of this law and I welcome you in this desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59225	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellow gentlemen, we don't think there is a political option in Serbia today, or a civil and business group that doesn't think that rail is the most lagging part of our entire infrastructure system. This meeting of the National Assembly of Serbia played a difficult and responsible role and was tasked with agreeing and overcoming all professional, legal and technological differences between our country and the highly developed world. We will agree that Serbia's railway is now uneven compared to the entire rail transport system in Europe and the world, that it is not in line with the rails of the countries in the environment, and especially with the EU countries. The difficult and complex state of our railways has constantly led us into discrepancies in investing between rail and road and water traffic. Understandably, there are now no investors who would invest in an outdated, disorganised and highly inefficient railway, which according to it is a continuous loss generator in the economy. The difficult and undefined situation of our railways has put us at an even greater risk that we expected and that we hoped would not arrive so quickly, which is a risk of trying to bypass our railways, or Corridor 10 by competitive railways from countries in our environment, which is understandable, but at the same time it is a major problem that is difficult to prevent. The ministry, our government and the railways themselves are deeply aware that Corridor 10 is naturally the most suitable and shortest route between Western Europe and Turkey, or the Middle East. We must do whatever is necessary to adopt this and other law as an emergency procedure to prevent the shift of goods and passengers towards alternative routes across Romania and Bulgaria. The PUPS Group believes that measures taken so far are insufficient and that, immediately after considering and adopting this law, it must access the implementation of other financial measures to successfully implement the revitalisation and restructuring of our railways, to the level of competitive economic society, ready to close all previous losses and finally enable the creation of benefits for our country. We would like to remind you that before the draft law was drawn up, a decision has already been taken to amend the legal form of the Public Undertaking of Serbia, as well as a decision on amendments and additions to the founding act of the Public Enterprise "The Railways of Serbia". These decisions reorganise the Public Undertaking of the "Serb Railways" on a completely new and modern basis in a stock society, allowing the Law on Business Society, which the parliament recently adopted. The new laws allow this company to work significantly more efficiently, as well as to operate in accordance with world market conditions. As a parliamentary group, we are fully aware that neither the application of those decisions nor the application of the new law will be possible without a positive EU opinion on the compliance of ours with European regulations, and it will also not be possible without additional regulations in the regulation, strictly in line with the directives that create the necessary environment for the work and operation of this very specific company. The PUPS Group considers that solutions in this law are proposed on the basis of the highest criteria and responsibilities that are now in force throughout the world. First of all, precise powers are established, but also strict responsibilities of the Railways Directorate, which will result in all technical and technological solutions and sublegal acts, which will govern the entire system of our railways. It is inevitable that, immediately after the adoption of the railway law, we also adopt the authority to adopt high-security regulations for railway safety, which will be laid down in a special safety law in railway transport. We expect that all participants in the process from the winding up of rail traffic, starting with the railway undertaking itself, will have a positive and economically important effect on the business itself through the manager of railway infrastructure and companies, as well as through all other legal entities or entrepreneurs that will carry out transport for their own needs. The new railway law, as well as the Railway Safety Act, will finally create, in our opinion, effective conditions for the rapid growth of the entire rail system, but also very safe and uninterrupted operation of all rail traffic throughout our country. For a long time, economic operators involved in the organisation and operation of transport in combined transport expected new legal solutions, as it will allow most of the transport route to be successfully carried out by rail, and one small part by waterway or by land, roadways. For the first time in this law, there is a complete basis for regulating this kind of transport. We believe this law will affect the economy of the Republic of Serbia in general. This law significantly improves and completes the legal arrangement of all rail traffic, and fully, in line with EU legislation. It is right to expect that there will be a higher interest in transporting goods and passengers to the railways, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the countries in the environment, which will have an increased interest in goods transported across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law opens the right to compete competitively with interested businesses, which will deal with railway infrastructure management and transport operations, various railway systems in railway transport. Ladies and gentlemen, the public debate of all interested participants in draft railway law has created a large number of suggestions and technical remarks and on the draft laws, which are generally adopted by both the JP Railways of Serbia and the competent ministry. Of course, we must all be aware that during the application of the law, measures will be taken for its application, first of all, through the adoption of a number of sublegal acts, which will significantly address all open technical and technological issues and problems in this area. An analysis of the compliance of the draft law on railways with EU rules covered all open issues without which this law cannot be implemented fully and without whose application it cannot produce the expected results. This applies primarily to the analysis and assessment of the fulfilment of the conditions necessary for the issue of transport licences. The PUPS parliamentary group considers the conditions to be very strict, but also correct, because they do not allow tolerance that would endanger anyone's safety of goods or passengers in rail traffic. It may seem to someone that even more stringent conditions are for meeting the nomination requirements for a good reputation, but if it is given that this also refers to proving the validity of the business ability and financial capacity, as well as the re-integrated categories, then we advocate that the Directorate is even more stringent and closer to the conditions for nomination and obtaining this assessment - a good reputation for all carriers. We fully support categorized requirements relating to the identification of professional skills, as well as insurance that companies and competitors must meet to obtain a licence. Considering that because of the known social, economic and political developments, as well as the privatisation of the transition, we have been exposed to an evident technological lagging, we now need to skip the phase training of our experts and we must immediately go to the highest and most responsible professional and technical and technologically educated staff and experts. We believe that the two-year deadline foreseen for the adoption of a sublegal law for the regulation of forms and contained licences may be too long, as the period of major technical lagging must be overrun faster and more effectively. It is certain that our Directorate remains obliged to issue temporary licences, but there is also a obligation to inform each other of our authorities and EU authorities on the fulfilment of the conditions for licensing with certain railway undertakings and services. The PUPS parliamentary group fully supports you in the laws that envision the adoption of sublegal acts, which will detail the proof of compliance with the conditions for issuing licences, as well as the completion of international rail transport, as well as the completion of transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All elements of partially harmonised and non-compliant, or incorrectly harmonised and non-transportable solutions, which could in any way be harmful in rail transport in our country, must be irrevocably removed and the railways must be the concept of safe, efficient, safe and highly cost-effective transport throughout our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the law achieves full compliance and clear definition of the terms of the competent authority, public transport service operator, term and exclusive law, terms of compensation for the provision of public service, as well as the terms of the internal operator of integrated public transport services of passengers who receive their final meaning and thus apply in our practice. We support the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which at its session of 26 May 2011 on the change of the legal form of the Public Enterprise of the Serbian public enterprise, from the legal form of a public enterprise in the right form of a closed stock company – AD Železnica Serbia. We particularly support the government's decision to amend and supplement the founding act, which, apart from the control company of the AD Railways of Serbia, has established four dependent or subordinated companies, which are now followed by the continuation of the process of further restructuring of this action society. We believe that the result of this process must be shown as complete independence, but the responsibility of the infrastructure manager for the further fate of the Serbian Railways. The mutual co-operation between infrastructure managers and carriers is established at the level of safe guarantees and optimal competitiveness of international rail transport of goods and passengers. As a parliamentary group, we propose that the competent ministry order and ensure the production of the evaluation methodology of the elements for determining fees for the use of railway infrastructure, as well as for the organisation and regulation of freight, combined and passenger rail traffic. The application and the scheme and methodology of determining the compensation must be based on the same principles for the entire international and domestic network. We believe that this law lays down the principles of compensation for the use of infrastructure, but also the principles of compensation for carriers from which surpluses will be directed for further financing and business of infrastructure users. All rights and obligations for providing information on the fees imposed, as well as the rights to determine the fees of minimum service packages, as well as the service of access to official facilities, have been well processed. Standards that already use everything to determine the exceptions to the principles of fixing fees, as well as the principle of discount, through the compensation scheme for unpaid environmental costs, compensation for traffic accidents and infrastructure are well-handled provisions, and they will be applied in our law phase, in accordance with our degree of economic development. They can't be applied immediately. The system of efficiency of the compensation for the reservation of the route, the right to access the capacity, as well as the duration of the right to use specific infrastructure capacities are now fully consistent with our rights and worldwide. It remains to be completed technical discrepancies for the framework agreement and for the conclusion of the contract on the use of railway infrastructures, in order to provide services in international transport. The adoption of a new law eliminates shortcomings that have so far threatened the safe and smooth operation of rail traffic for the transport of goods and passengers. This law now allows for the practical application of all modern technical and technological solutions, and the Railways Directorate gets all the powers of great importance for traffic safety, but also for easier and more efficient business. The PUPS parliamentary group will support any amendments that technically improve certain solutions in this law, and in particular will support this law in principle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59227	Thank you. MP Bojan Djuric has his word. Excuse me, please. Before you is Mr Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59228	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you said, Mr. Minister, it is an honor to have you defend this law. I'll start by saying that we're going to have to attack certain elements of this law. We're going to have to attack them because, not because the solutions are bad, but because some of the essential things for us are not foreseen by this bill. What is not disputed for us is that the Railways Directorate will have greater powers. The introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme is not disputed either. Of course, the question is that this bill came into the People's Assembly procedure on September 1st, meaning only a few days ago, but it's not the first, and not the last case, and of course it's not just about the ministry you're headed on, but it's become a practice lately because of the teat. What I must say at first is that we are in favour of the state roads of second order, local and regional railway infrastructure, or the regional channel system becoming a provinceal property. Of course, state roads and channels are not the subject of regulation of this law, but the railway infrastructure certainly is. As you know, the National Assembly will begin a debate on the proposal for a public property law on September 22nd. Therefore, this law on railways can be seen as an over-debate for the Law on Public Property, at least as regards this section relating to railway infrastructure. Please, Mr. Minister, understand that we had to submit amendments to this proposal of the railway law, with the intention of ensuring that some of the railway infrastructure was in possession of the AP Vojvodina. If it is not allowed by this law, then we will not have a chance to discuss the Public Property Act to provide it. That is why, before I say a few words about a more concrete, on Monday, our amendments, I must say, we will be able to support this law only if these amendments are accepted. As I said earlier, these amendments, and there are a total of six, refer to the creation of opportunities for the AP Vojvodina to take over part of the railway infrastructure. At first, I must say, this is not about the establishment of a company of the Vojvodina Railways, for example. We don't do these demagogue things. So, it's not the point of establishing the Duke's railway company. The point is to take over the AP Vojvodina to take over part of the railway infrastructure, i.e. rail infrastructure, except Corridor 10, on the one hand, and to create on the other hand the possibility of a company forming a commercial company by the AP Vojvodina, which will manage that property that the AP Vojvodina would need to take over under the Law on Railways and the Law on Public Property. Before I move on to our amendments, to concrete solutions, I'd like to remind you. You know for certain, Mr. Minister, that the first railroad on the territory of today's AP Vojvodina was built in 1869. Then there was an open traffic on the Segedin-Subotica-Sombor track. It was the first railway in Bačka and the first railway on the territory of today's Republic of Serbia. At that time Sombor was an important railway knot, which crossed seven directions. Of those seven directions today, three of them are functioning, and part of the railroad is unmounted. I think this example shows in a faithful way what once existed and what exists today. The railway arrived in Vojvodina only 29 years later, or 29 years after the start of railway traffic in England. That's the information I wanted to say here in the National Assembly, as well as that in the early 20th century, the Vojvodina had the densest network of railroads in Europe. The circular grid was even three times thicker than in England where the railroad was created. In 1924, the so-called “Sad ” was published in Novi Sad. Vojvodina's almanac, in which with the help of the most famous Serbian experts of the period, has been given a full and full statistical review of Vojvodina by each settlement on 461 sides. In the Vojvodina area of 1923, the railway network was 1,700km long. So, 1,700 kilometers in 1923. Of these, 382km were all owned by the state, and the short-term share of 1,247km was owned by various companies. I wanted to stress this because it creates the wrong impression and the public is mistaken that the railways, that the railway infrastructure in some way is a symbol of the state, of the statehood of sovereignty. As you could see from this data, it wasn't even 90 years ago, let alone today. So railways and railroads are not a symbol of statehood, they're not a symbol of sovereignty. That's why we think that if it was that way back in 1923, then it could be in 2011. I said earlier that the railways were carried away, that the railways had been decommissioned in the last decades from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's not what the Dukes were doing, that's what someone else was doing, and that's what they should be saying here. Therefore, there cannot be justifiable fear that the Dukes would not properly manage these railways and this railway infrastructure. There is no intention in Vojvodina that the stripes will be demonized. There is no intention of railing from the territory of the AP Duke's relations elsewhere. It can't be done anymore, and, like I said, it's not intentional. As you know, Mr. Minister, in the railways in Serbia today, the situation is catastrophic. This is so despite the fact that this year's budget on railway subsidies went to 16 billion dinars. Last year, these subsidies amounted to 12.4 billion dinars. However, the other day we were able to read in the press, I don't know if that information was correct, but we could read that out of 50 billion public debt dinars and public enterprises 32 owe the railways. I don't think there's any excuse for that and that this situation has to be fixed and it has to change. Maybe one way to change that catastrophic state is to decentralisation. Mr. Minister, there are railways in Vojvodina that were last restored during Francis Joseph. I don't know if you know when Franjo Joseph died, but I'll tell you, Franja Joseph died in 1916. There are stripes that were reconstructed the last time and restored hundreds of years ago. The speed of trains does not reach the speed of those of the late 19th century. The railway has experienced a renaissance everywhere in Europe, both in terms of freight transport, but also in relation to passenger traffic, and with us in Vojvodina, as far as rail and railway infrastructure are concerned, everything has been failing since the late 1980s. I'll tell you another piece of information that's slightly interesting. Since the late '80s, so in the last 20 years, 16,000 cars have been taken from Vojvodina. There have been 16,000 cars taken from Vojvodina for the last 20 years. The transport of cargo daily in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is missing about 500 wagons, and we must also consider the fact that needs, unfortunately, and possibilities are much more modest than they were 20 and more years ago. I think this data also affects that this data tells us that the economy is at a loss, that the traffic is at a loss, that the transport of goods is primarily at a loss. As for the transport of passengers, in Vojvodina in the traffic of silver arrows, I don't know if you know, Mr. Minister, what silver arrows are, silver arrows are Shinobuses produced in the 1960s, so, in Vojvodina, the traffic of Shinobuses produced 50 years ago. If we know this information, and about the accuracy of this information anyone can see who's standing at the ramp, waiting for that silver arrow to pass, and that takes a long time, unfortunately, everyone can make sure that passenger transport is mildly inadequate. That's why we're not surprised that more and more citizens are turning to road transport. No wonder trains are late, it's no wonder, but at the same time it's not normal for a man when he gets to a train station who can't know when the train will come and if he's going to drive at all. As for road transport in Vojvodina, and I believe it is similar in other areas of the Republic of Serbia, road traffic is organised in an even worse way, in the sense that, simply between municipalities, buses traffic once a day between populated areas. That way I can't provide jobs, because people just can't go to work. In the AP, Vojvodina's railway infrastructure has been completely ignored in recent decades. This is why we consider it a solution to take over railway infrastructure, except Corridor 10. We are prepared to provide assistance and to do everything, above all, by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, for the purpose of providing funds from European and other railway revitalisation funds, railway infrastructure. I think we should call a competition for the private railways. You said earlier, we agree with that finding and agree with that intention of the bill, to liberalise the market. That's why I said at the beginning of my address that the substance was not the Railways of Vojvodina. The Vojvodina railways can exist, that other legal entities can also be established under the current law, because even now in the current law and the proposal for this law, it says that rail traffic can also be carried out by other legal persons, and not only by a legal person in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. That means, if other legal entities can do it, then that legal person whose founder is the AP Vojvodina. So it's secure, it's enabled, but it's not the goal right now, it's not the intention and it's not the essence. The point is in the railway infrastructure. That is why we have submitted some amendments that I would like to speak about very briefly, just to be aware of the content of these amendments. In the discussion in detail, we'll discuss it in more detail. So it is of paramount importance for us to define that the public railway structure in the property of the Republic of Serbia, or the AP, is in accordance with the law governing public property. The infrastructure manager is a company founded by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP. The railway infrastructure management licence is an instrument issued by the competent authority to a company established by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP, another company, another legal person or entrepreneur, on the acquisition of public railway infrastructure management rights. It is this provision which is one of those provisions that enable market liberalisation. If you've already written that it can be any legal person or entrepreneur, I don't see any interference that it can be explicitly said that it can also be a legal person whose founder is the AP Vojvodina. That is the essence of our amendments. There are others who follow this same logic. I don't want to talk about everything individually. I hope, Mr. Minister, that the government will accept these amendments. I sincerely hope that in this we will also have support for our coalition partners, primarily those parties who declare themselves to be the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, who are declaring themselves to return the assets of the AP Vojvodina. If we will have the support of primarily the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and if we come across your understanding, Mr. Minister, I'm sure we will have a law that will contain these proposals, that we will be able in the day of voting to support this law. In the end, I would like to take advantage of your presence and speak in the same context of one request. It is a request since May 2011, which has been addressed to the "Serb Railways", as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure, to improve rail traffic in the area of the Northern-Bačka and Northern-Banat County. This joint letter was sent by the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors of Subotica, Sente, Kanjiže and Choke. There is an identical requirement for railwaymen, train tow sections - Subotica. It is that several years ago, during the last purchase of Swedish diesel motor trains, it was promised that some of these trains would also be trafficked on railways in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but unfortunately that was not the case. These trains were deployed to the King, Zaječar, and Nis, but were then promised to receive trains in the next delivery of the Vojvodjan municipality. I was just talking about a catastrophic situation, and that's why I want to support this request, and I think it's correct, and that it should certainly be done on this request. The main requirement is for the expected delivery of 12 diesels of motor trains from Russia, three to be deployed to the Northern-Bakh and West-Bakh County. I think that, according to those promises made five or six years ago, taking into account the fact that rail traffic in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is in a catastrophic state, I hope that this request will be heard and that you, Mr. Minister, will advocate that at least three trains, of these 12 trains, arrive in the territory of the West-Bačka and North-Bačka County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59229	Thank you. I give my word to MP Bojan Gjuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59230	Dear President, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Gristle, you haven't spoken of this law in a very long time. I expected you to say something longer. It would be great if the average delay in the "Serb Railway" trains was about as much as you said. You don't have to go too far on the other side, talk as much as late. Mr. Djelic is up to it. Let's get back to the law itself. I listened very carefully to what you were talking about and the presentations of colleagues from PUPS and SVM. I think we need to take a step back. Very little was said except for Mr. Pastor in one section about the state of rail traffic and the operation of rail traffic in Vojvodina. We don't go from zero to zero into this law and a whole set of new solutions and new institutions. In this country there is a rail system, there is a system of railways, there is a large public enterprise that is practically the biggest loser in this country at the moment, but I would say a company with the weakest or most uncertain perspective, if we exclude JAT, which is hardly able to more and call it some kind of operating company or company that has any chance of surviving in this way in the air traffic sector. We're passing the railroad law, the second in six years. Often changing the law does not have to be bad if it is directed to remove in practice the problems that occurred when this law was applied. On the other hand, today is September 7th, and we are in an emergency procedure and in an emergency session reviewing this law, and in transitional and final provisions are foreseen, it seems to me that within two years, 24 months of the law's entry into force, all sublegal acts, i.e. that the law in the right sense of the word, are brought to life. In the meantime, we will have both elections, parliamentary and presidential elections, very likely the government in the technical mandate for several months. First, are you sure that even within that time limit or any other appropriate time frame, they will be able to bring in appropriate sublegal acts? This is very important, especially if you really have the ambition to change the current financing system of the "Serb Railway", which is to cover the huge loss that the company has. Publicly, stories appear relatively often, it is hard to tell how much the losses of JP "Serb Railway" are, or now a closed stock company, from a few weeks ago, in which they are covered. I understand the optimism of this decision to turn the railways into a closed stock company, but it's more or less, and you know it very well, for now, first of all, an administrative decision, which singles out three sectors that have some significance and some perspective. So the transport of passenger cargo, i.e. the transport of goods and infrastructure, and this fourth is, in fact, a debt dump, i.e. a fictitious company on which only debts of Serbia's former or uncovered debts will remain. It's, like, this frozen Red Star basketball club that's left to exist formally, it's got debts, and the team's already registered and played by a different name. It may be sustainable in basketball, but in a large system like the state, that debt always comes on the charge somehow and always comes to the charge of one or another government and citizens first of all. So that's one of the key questions. You will say, probably, when you report that the rare European countries whose rails today can remain clean on the market of the revenue they make, above all in the passenger transport sector, and with some other services – telecommunications, or postal traffic, etc. That's not the problem. Of course, the state under certain conditions can provide a certain type of aid to the subsidy, especially when it is necessary to finance the transport of passengers to so-called. Passive areas, undeveloped parts of the country or where there is no commercial interest in doing so on some other commercial basis, above all. The issue, however, is how this subsidy is spent. For years now, we have been singled out, with an average of 110m or 120m euros in direct budget subsidies to Serbia's railways. This year it's just over 160m euros or 16 billion 100m dinars. At least it was foreseen in the budget, which is still current. A large part of these funds are used to pay off profits in a public enterprise, i.e. in the railway company of Serbia. You have completely, as I would say, the mutually opposed statements of the company's leadership that was inherited, has nothing to do with you and your party, it is the function of another ruling party in this parliament, but Director Markovic, in a recent interview, says – in this year we received 16.1 billion dinars of subsidies, part went to the closure of the earlier debt to Elektroprivred, so the taxpayers, Serbia's budget gives subsidies to the railways that are then a public enterprise, to cover the debt to another public enterprise in this country and the "Energy Project" for the work on Prokop. The vast majority of about 13.4 billion dinars were spent on profits. In the next question, on the question of journalists – is it not logical that the state is giving money for infrastructure and not for wages, the director says – the state has never given money for profits. I know what the problem is. Railways from their assets shall cover the costs of maintenance of the infrastructure and what is necessary for the operational operation of the company and the wages paid from this sector. There are different examples of another country. You here, in the light of the Law, stated that experts, first of all, from France and Lithuania, helped to draft this law. I guess it's also part of some international projects, so maybe we couldn't choose much, but I don't think France might be the best example for Serbia. It's just that everything is different in this system of French railways, which in one way or another employs 180,000 people around the world, who are along with the German railways among the largest companies in the world in general, these others, some smaller countries may be a better example. I chose a system of Slovak railways, because Slovakia is by much comparable to Serbia and by size and by population and in some way the problems that followed it in the first years of transition. Slovakia moved several years ago, I think in 2005 to this system to be divided into different companies in charge of different segments of rail traffic, and then passenger traffic was singled out in Slovakia. The Slovak state still allocates significant subsidies to the segment of traffic. They were last year in 2010, it seems to me at 200-202m euros. It means something bigger than in Serbia, but slightly bigger. Let's see what performances of Slovak railways are, at least this part at the same time. So 200m euros in subsidies, 4,900 employees, an average salary of 826 euros, 45m passengers transported. Serbian railways have a 160m-euro subsidy, have nearly 19,000 workers still, 18500-19.000, the average salary is about 340 euros, and in 2010, 7,500 million transported passengers. There is, however, a significant difference in how the euro subsidy is spent, i.e. the euro of the taxpayer in Slovakia and how it is spent in Serbia. The country is carrying out, as many as six times as many passengers with 25% of Serbian railway workers at the moment. These are problems that will not solve this formal conversion into four companies, or under the control of one joint venture that will do corporate work for all others. It might be interesting to hear, if in this business, a little further from the beginning, how many of these companies have employees and how this restructuring process works in the first place. Of course, it's interesting and we probably won't be able to move forward without a solution to this issue spoken by fellow Pastor, especially in light of the discussion and adoption of this package of the Law on Public Property, the Law on Restitution and probably the Law on Public Private Partnership in the last week of this month. One solution and another can be discussed, but it must be discussed and that is what is most important. It's completely pointless that we have two different laws, two weeks apart, very important, that predict mutually opposed solutions. I also don't believe that, as far as I know, the change of name on those old railway locomotives itself is either a sign of statehood or that it will in itself improve the situation in the train traffic in Vojvodina. But any mode of efficient management is certainly good. There may not be much point in transferring these infrastructure facilities from one level of public authority to another, since they are less always, it doesn't even have much to do with concrete parties, they function in the same, mostly inefficient way, but if this is the way to move faster into a more commercial or commercial system of functioning, then it is an idea that can be discussed. On the other hand, there are some solutions in this law that at first glance seem to be decentralisation that are certainly not good. In one of the previous speeches here in the Assembly, you have announced this possibility that, above all, on those non-performable railways or lines for which there is no justification from the aspect of the Republic of Serbia and from the commercial aspect that traffic is taking place, and local communities or local self-government have an interest in this traffic and have been very often pressured on you in recent years. It is certainly not a dispute, and it is one of the reasons for the loss that is made every year. So, to take over this job of organising passenger transportation or otherwise covering the cost, through the contract of the companies doing so, or the current railways of Serbia. Article 9 of this bill, one of these issues is trying to solve, and it says: "The right to use and manage the part of the railway infrastructure for which society (thinks of a large infrastructure management company) has no economic interest can be given to a local self-government unit. The management of this infrastructure shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this whole law. I think that this solution is in some way removing concerns from the republic's level, on the one hand it works both openly and democraticly, but I am afraid that in a situation where local self-government in Serbia is today will be practically and completely ineffective, or that local self-government will especially take place in pre-election periods because of the need to get as many votes as possible into very problematic legal affairs, infrastructure jobs, borrowings, especially when a law on public property is passed, and especially in a country that has such a degree of financial discipline as Serbia and at the central level, and in many of which the situation is worse at the local level. Now it's the beginning of September, working on a proposal for a new budget law would have to be in the final phase. A principle agreement with the IMF mission has been reached. I'm interested in ministers whether at this point you have any projection of what the amount of the subsidy will be for next year, or how will it be regulated in terms of the reorganisation of the railways and the adoption of this law? If I'm not mistaken, about 13 billion dinars must be a savings space agreed on by the budget rebalance, or through an arrangement with the IMF Mission. The part will obviously have to go from segments or subsidies, or infrastructure facilities. It's both your jurisdiction, so we'll just have that law here in a few weeks. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we knew what the basic numbers would be today, if there was room to maybe hear both the results of the business and the work of these great announced successes of railways, the system of kargo 10, etc. This is, therefore, what are the general remarks, or the observation of the LDP, regardless of what in the most part, even in this technical normative sense, this law cannot be disputed, but it will be a major challenge, especially when real negotiations with the EU begin, or when certain chapters in these negotiations are opened, especially when the EU, or the European Commission, assesses compliance with the rules on limited state aid and its gradual reduction. I think that in this sense Croatia's integration can be a good and instructive example for us. In some other segments there, railways may not have been such a problem. We don't have shipyards, but these could be our shipyards in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59231	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59232	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us, therefore, one would say a significant law, the Law on Railways. It is a system law that will try to regulate a significant and extremely important area such as the railways. The railway has several components that make it an extremely complex system, and most importantly, railway infrastructure, passenger and goods traffic, infrastructure management and traffic security, which is being solved by another law, the Safety Act. It is, therefore, a very complex area, where many important issues need to be regulated and it is, of course, I would say that I cannot achieve one law. This legal text, which is before us, has some quite new and very good solutions, but there are also many details, procedures, processes that I think may have been regulated by appropriate sublaws. The positive side of the new legal solutions is that it covers public rail infrastructure management, separates infrastructure management from organising and providing transport of passengers and goods, as public transport and transport for its own purposes. The law quite clearly defines the concept of rail infrastructure in a transport and technical sense. This is an important assumption to separate the activity of infrastructure management from the commercial operations of the organisation of the transport of goods and passengers. The law separates and divides the infrastructure into a public industrial railway in terms of its travel openness for use by interested users. The railway infrastructure has a good status in general use and is owned by the Republic of Serbia, which is a widely accepted solution in Europe. That it's a very complex matter, it also confirms that we're passing a new railway law after seven years of the last law being passed and that it's just saying that it's a complex matter and a very lively matter and that we're going to need a long time to clear, legal and otherwise regulate this area as a whole. The positive side of the law is that in one appropriate way, I would say it operationalises European standards and directives relating to the adoption of them in an appropriate manner in our system, so that our Railway is also part of the European rail system. The railway, of course, and it can exist and be far better than it is today only if it is part of the European rail system. The laws we are talking about today and the ones we are considering today, we believe they are going in that direction. It is certain that this law removes a number of weaknesses from previous laws, which could not have been applied, and yet, on the other hand, it goes with some new solutions that are important for today's Railway, but I would also say about the Railway in the perspective, that is, in the future. Positive effects can be expected by adopting this law, as it will allow for a clearer position of today's Serbian rail system and when it comes to infrastructure and organisation of passenger and goods transport, the openness of our rail network through Serbia, greater use by interested users from Europe, as well as a more rational and commercial, more efficient and efficient transport system. With such solutions, I believe, we can expect new operators, domestic and international, who will have an interest in actively participating in the operation of railway infrastructure management and railway undertakings, which will certainly create conditions for competition in the service market when it comes to rail transport. I believe that the bill promoter well assessed that the weaknesses of the previous Law cannot be solved in another way, so that changes and additions to the existing law, but by a new law, so as to make its application both practical and more effective. Analyzing some of the legal solutions, I would especially single out the following, which I think are very good, that they are of great importance. First, the adoption of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure becomes a legal obligation and this is very important, because if we want to take advantage of both economic and developmentally all the chances Serbia has as one of the important railway crossings in Europe, we simply have to define ourselves strategically. The one from the 19th or the 21st century railroad. The adoption of such a programme will allow us first to define the clear objectives, obligations and responsibilities of all entities in the country with a fundamental intention to target such a programme as the modernisation of the railways in Serbia. There, of course, I mean the end of the Valjevo-Loznica railway line, the end of the Belgrade railway node, the complete modernisation of the railway corridor through Serbia, the modernisation of the bar track, the natural electrification of the railway in the royal region and in Vojvodina. It is, therefore, a major venture whose successful realization provides a very good place for Serbia on the railway transport market. Otherwise, this kind of transport through our country will inevitably be replaced by another. First of all, of course, I mean water and road traffic. It would be a great shame, because Serbia has a good chance of being in railway transport, I would say, a traffic spine linking Central Europe with the southeast, where to a large extent the traffic of goods and people and we and we have to take that chance and we have to take advantage of it and for years the current minister, Mr. Mrkonjic, has been fighting for it, which is extremely important, extremely good. The next thing he thinks is also very positive when it comes to this law, the law defines clearly public transport of passengers and goods in rail traffic and establishes the rights and obligations of companies that can appear as carriers, which again provides adequate normative conditions for greater use of existing rail capacities. The law continues to specify that transport in rail transport is of general interest, urban, suburban, regional and remote transport of passengers. Such legal solutions create conditions for many new entities that can take part in the organisation of this transport and then contribute to the increased and popularisation and use of this type of transport as very economically efficient and very cost-effective. The increase and affirmation of transport of public interest will only be possible if we create conditions for restructuring, better organisation and a better position of our national company "The Railways of Serbia". Without great support from the state, when it comes to debts, development, means of transport, there is no successful recovery, there is no successful recovery of this national company. Every year, when we discuss the budget, we allocate funds to the rails from around me, I think 10 billion and a little more dinars on an annual basis. Many believe that this is a lot of money, but the experience of European railways shows that there is no successful recovery of such systems without major investment, in particular there is no dealing with the "Serb Railways" because our railways and railway equipment have largely worn out. The legislator well points out that in Serbia today, investment in the road economy is several times higher than investment in rail modernisation. We can expect, and we expect, that this new legal solution will also foster greater financial investment in both our railways and our vehicles. Many experiences show that we can reduce the number of employees, which seems to me to be maximumly done on Serbian railways, to carry out other rationalisations that are necessary, but without major investment on the railways, which has a number of positive economic consequences for the economy and population that we do not need to explain, we do not seem to be able to recover our national company, and in my deep confidence and in the opinion of the MP club that I represent, significant, very important for our economy, for our country and for our citizens. There are encouraging solutions to this law, which we will adopt, because it has many solutions to many of the current problems. Therefore, it separates responsibility from infrastructure in all respects of words and responsibilities, as regards the transport of passengers and goods. It's the first assumption that this system is made effective. I would also like to point out that the latest railway reorganisation being carried out, when it comes to organisational and governance, I am convinced that it can have positive effects on the improvement of our railway. I also want to say that a good solution in this law is very clear, very precisely defining the status and affairs of the Railways Directorate. The role of the Directorate in regulating market conditions and jobs in the area and safety of rail transport is enormous, extremely large, as well as when it comes to involving more businesses in our rail infrastructure. This is why it is important that the new legal solution to give this directive both powers and responsibilities to further regulate certain issues in the rail system, because that is the only way to fully standardise itself, make one normative rounding of many issues concerning better organisation, openness of the system and its ability to respond to its services to needs and businesses and citizens. I think it's an extremely important question of travel crossings. So there is a serious social problem that is extremely important. It's good to give a certain meaning. It is good to create a legal obligation and responsibility. This problem cannot be solved by one subject, it certainly cannot be solved by the railway itself. Several entities need to be involved in the realization of this open issue and problem. Finally, I would like to say once again that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59233	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59234	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, the law on railways is not the first law to be passed by the competent ministry to this assembly, so far we have debated several traffic laws. The DSS parliamentary group, respecting the area's importance, has always been of great attention and without any prejudice has approached the examination of these laws. However, if I were to make some rank list, I must tell you that this law is the absolute champion of the world, that is, the absolutely worst law you have ever proposed to the Assembly. I'll try to explain in a few minutes. First and foremost, when any law is passed in any area it is necessary that the writer of the law has two things in mind. First, what is the situation in that area and second, what is the state of it? We see how things are with us. The situation in the railway area must be discussed with three aspects. One thing is that the state of the railway, i.e. the infrastructure, is the other is how companies involved in the organisation of transport traffic and third, it's a special statute of rail in each country and I will try to explain it, because otherwise it skips, not only depends on its size of the dinar or dollars and some other currency, there are some special state interests related to the railway. The state of infrastructure is catastrophic. In Serbia, as far as I know, there are currently about 200km of railways on which trains cannot move faster than 20km per hour because the base is such that it does not allow it. For example, the pity that Mr. Milicevic came out, he said that we must choose between the 19th and 21st centuries railways, paradoxically sounds like I would probably choose the 19th century railway at this point because the trains in Serbia, however not in the 19th century, that's 1936 data, went 50% faster than they are today. I don't think the commentary further on this about the state of the infrastructure absolutely has to be given. As for the way our company works, we've heard from Mr Balint Pastor, which is the exact information, that the last budget predicted 16.2 billion dinars or, translated into folk language, 160m euros. That, of course, isn't the first time, it's been happening years ago. On the other hand, we heard from Mr. Djuric some parallel indicators that are also true where passengers are shown to carry, for example, the Slovak Railway, how many we with how many employees. Business and in general on the economic treatment of the railway problem will talk much more and more about my colleague Obradovic, so I will not waste your time in vain. But I said, there's a third thing. In fact, in the white world, in particular in the United States, half the last century, they found that there are some optimization jobs that can't be solved just by taking a dollar as the only parameter, i.e. to minimise costs and maximise profits as the only parameter. There are some sectors where you have to introduce some different technologies and I'll tell you right now, that's when an area of mathematics called multi-criteral programming appeared. Namely, it turns out that when, for example, You set the course of a railway is not the only criterion of how much it costs and how much money it will make, but there are some interests of the state that are beyond that, for example. military-security, or some global interests of the state that some end of the country must not be cut off from the white world etc. This is a problem that is constantly occurring in traffic not only in railways, but also in travel and other species. There's no talking about it in this law, there's no mention of the possibility of thinking about it. I have an impression, this law, of course, with what I have further, which I'm going to say, might be acceptable to the French railways or the Japanese railways. Well, now, we have a railroad that works perfectly and we want to make a law that will make it work even better. But we have a railroad that doesn't work at all, and now we want to make a law that should be applicable to our conditions just so that through some fog of naive Europe, that's what's going to happen. First of all, Europe is not naive at all, of course, especially in such concrete things it absolutely knows what it is doing, but let's not, we are now solving the problem of how we will rent track tracks etc., and our track tracks do not exist or if they exist, they are in such a state that they are inert. If he was a private contractor, he'd take some railroad route and immediately lift the railroad and sell the tracks into old iron. It's the only economic logic, in the current state of things. Now, let me move on to concrete solutions in the law. First, let me tell you, there are two types of serious problems in the law. If we ignore these global things that are indecisive, on the one hand, there are many members of the law who are overly petty and explaining the procedures, as the people say, in a tiny worm, completely unnecessary, because one of these things could be the subject of some sublegal acts. On the other hand, there are no things that could have been introduced into the law. Here's an example. You, however, rightfully, are increasing the leadership of the Railway Directorate, but you don't say anything about how this Directorate is organized, who runs it, how that manager is elected. There aren't any members about it. According to what it says in this law, I'm a little bit of a cartoonist, there's an objective possibility that anyone who comes to mind is being organized by a company called the Railways Directorate. The only thing it says is that this company is a special organization, nothing else says in the law what kind of company it is. If he's a special organization, ten of us can make every one of our railroad directors. Of course it wasn't law enforcement, but you don't have one member of the organization. Next, the law is full of relativization. You say one undeniable fact – whoever owns the infrastructure rents routes to interested people once a year and that's fine, but you write – as a rule once a year. What does that mean, by the book? It doesn't mean anything. In another place you say – there will be a solution in some procedure, beware of the term, within reasonable limits. What does that mean, legally, what does that mean? We can discuss it in a pub to argue within reasonable limits, if we're sober enough, but in some law, that bill doesn't mean anything. The Democratic Party of Serbia, we have after the first reading noted the possibility of writing 54 amendments. Then we realized that it was completely pointless and that everything I've told you so far indicates that the law is in this form irreparable. We've written seven amendments, noting only seven, let me say, magnificent nonsense that should be corrected. These amendments will be an opportunity to discuss details to say more. In the end, really, as our well-intentioned contribution to this debate and my personal well-intentioned contribution to this debate, we think it's only wise for this law to be withdrawn. To be clear, we don't question the need for law-making, we don't even question any reasons, and I would paint a little differently, but it's a finesse thing, and it's simply a matter of sitting down and writing a law that will respect the situation on one side, not to say another word that rhymes, on our railroad, and at the same time to open up some perspective and our vision of how to fix it and make it from the railroad what it doesn't need to be, but it has to be. I don't think there's anyone who would misread me from my colleagues, that the railways in their sectors are exclusively and should only be state-owned. On the contrary, in many things it is necessary to open up competition and opportunity and privatisation and railways and trains and whatever you want, but first you have to make one framework to get out of what we are, first, respecting everything and the economic factor on the one hand, and on the other hand, undoubtedly state interests over something called the railway. It's not a naive thing. You may, perhaps, manage the parks in Chačka to hand over the town of Chačka to take care of it either in Vojvodina, however, but you can't manage one as important state resource as the railways to carry on indefinitely some lower local levels of government. No country does that, I don't know any one who does that. I repeat, it has nothing to do with investing private capital in railways. No one has anything to do with it. My advice is to withdraw the law. I can add one more piece of advice, and it's possibly written by some other people, because what those who wrote this can do is, unfortunately, we're able to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59235	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word in this part of the session? If so, please sign into the electronic system. National MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the Bill of Railways as a brand-new law, which is also good, because you yourself admitted that this previous law was pretty bad. Knowing that today's session will be this part of the agenda, I intend to take this session by train and make sure on the spot what the situation of our railways is, at least when it comes to passenger traffic. I went to a low train station to take a look at the driving order, buy a train ticket that responds most to me in the direction of Belgrade. When I analyzed the order of driving, I found that there was literally no opportunity to achieve my intention, provided that on time, rested, and what is said, within a reasonable period of time, I came and arrived for the Parliament's meeting. I don't want to talk and convince the order of the ride, but really, that's the situation. Especially if we know how long our trains travel, how late they are, how unreliable and all the other things. Take one such type of transport to a very important obligation such as a meeting of the congregation simply could not be considered. After I realized that, I looked at the driving lines for the rest of the directions from Nis and established the following. In other directions, the situation is even worse than it is when it comes to Belgrade. For example, in the direction of Dimitrovgrad, which leads further to Sofia and Istanbul, there are only two trains per day from Nis, none of which is a passenger train. In the direction of Zaječar, two trains also travel daily, both of which are passenger trains, and in the direction of Vranja, i.e. further in the direction of Skopje, Thessaloniki and Athens, the situation is slightly better. However, when it comes to the direction towards Prokuplje and Kursumlia, i.e. the direction that leads further towards the administrative line towards Kosovo, the situation is catastrophic, as it has been almost a year, more specifically since 14 October 2010, does not traffic a single train. In a way, in the shortest sense, it would be a sad picture of the situation on our railways. Of course, I don't want to blame the minister for all of this, because this situation takes a lot longer -- it takes years, decades and decades back, but it really does. If we ask ourselves further, and if we know Nis is the largest railway node in the Republic of Serbia, from which they lead in five different directions, then we can ask ourselves further what is the situation in other cities, smaller cities and other parts of Serbia. I would like to remind you that the first train from Belgrade to Nis, it is known, was then on a newly built track in 1884 and was moving at a higher speed than today's trains, 127 years later. If by the age of 127 mentioned, the technique has progressed immeasurably, which we all know, then it is absurd and absolutely incomprehensible that our trains are going much slower today than they used to be. And not only that, today there are far fewer trains on our tracks than in earlier times. I'll remind you, I'll illustrate it with one example. In a happier time, Nis residents living in a neighborhood near a train station were unable to sleep at night, because the station speaker was constantly announcing the departure and departure of trains, and very often he reported the departure or departure of five, six trains at a time. What is worse and what may be unacceptable is that today trains do not traffic in directions that represent strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, and one of those directions is the reference direction for Kursumlia, i.e. villages that are provided according to the administrative line with Kosovo. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the only direction in which complete suspension of passenger traffic is expected. I have already said that there are no passenger trains in the direction of Dimitrovgrad, and if it happens, and from some parameters that we can see, it can be concluded, that some other passenger trains are being stopped, then the locals, especially in these border areas, will move even more intensively from these parts and flock towards larger centres, and we know that today is the most common place in Belgrade. Therefore, the SRS believes that there must be no suspension of rail and passenger traffic in strategic directions, and traffic subsidies must be provided, determined directly in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I will remind myself that for Nisli and southern Serbia, it is inexplicable and incomprehensible, that the train from Nis to Bar has been lifted, and we know that the train has been trafficked for years, and if anything else, at least in the tourist season, I think there is a legitimate, economic and any other interest in the train being trafficked. Unfortunately, however, there was no such train this year, or this tourist season. This is kind of a shorter introduction, but let me go back slowly to the law itself, or more specifically to look at the text of the law. As can be seen from the arguments given by the Government in this law, no element based on the concept of the law so far has been fulfilled, except that the Railways Directorate was established. I have to admit, and that is clear in itself, that the easiest way to establish the Railways Directorate is one species through which party people and their people will be fostered, but the question is whether or not the Railway Directorate has fulfilled its task. Personally, I don't think that this directorate has yet to fulfil a single task of trust. Now, if we see the proposal for this new law that we're talking about today, we see that this law too, the focus, puts again on the Railway Directorate. The most important task that the law needs to solve is to state certain powers of this directive, and above all, in the sense of the adoption of certain sublaws, i.e. sublegal acts. I can agree with the fact that it exists as a problem and for this reason it was necessary to change these things in law, but the main problem of our railway is not that, is not in the Railways Directorate, the main problem of our railway is much deeper, and they know and see and feel all Serbian citizens. I think the main problem is the old and ragged railways that trains can move about 10 kilometers an hour, that the main problem is the lack of locomotives, the lack of trains, the lack of tow and towed vehicles, as it is said here. In one place in the law you talked about the inability of certain passenger traffic and that's one of the reasons some lines have been abolished. Of course, rail in no country, especially passenger traffic, is not a profitable branch, but I think you should say and admit that the reason for stopping traffic on some lines may not be the lack of passengers alone, but rather the lack of wagons and lack of locomotives. Serbia is indeed, I think, in this regard, the last place in Europe, by the number of these tow and towed vehicles. This time I won't mention when a new railroad was made. Nobody in this room remembers that. They just don't work. Unfortunately, the existing ones we still have, or they're being held badly, and most of them aren't in function at all. Special stories are regional and local railways, which are practically non-existent, and where there are them and where they exist, they are normally not functional. You here in law are also calling for some alignment with EU regulations, and not only in this law, it is a practice with all your laws, as if you are passing these laws for the sake of the EU alone. But while you have already mentioned this EU, I think it would be good to call on some other EU-related standards, when it comes to rail quality, train quality, timetable respect, speed of movement of these trains, etc. I hope you've all heard of the famous French TŽV trains, or high-speed trains, that at least you think or should think in that direction, that sometimes Serbia has at least some of that in perspective. The SRS intervened with a large number of amendments. When it comes to reviewing the law in detail, we will discuss it in more detail. We've filed about thirty amendments that are professionally and meaningfully written. I hope that when it's up to the government, some of them will adopt. What I'm saying is, there are a lot of things that aren't even covered by this law. It's just that the law didn't predict many of the opportunities that happen in practice. Let's just say, let me give you an example. We all know that the big problem, in addition to all the other problems that exist, our railways are both theft or deliberate damage to railway infrastructure. It is often a phenomenon that thieves and hooligans take away or damage some of the equipment on the railway structure, and as a rule these are mostly copper elements whose value is symbolic of those problems that can come out of it. For example, some thief takes away copper elements without which railways and communication and intelligence systems cannot function. Those copper parts, like I said, are symbolic values, but that's why huge human and material damage can be done. So, huge material damages that may be measured in millions of euros. God forbid, we don't talk about human damage if there's any haemorrhaging. When one of these thieves, who damaged that railway infrastructure, happens to be caught, then the judicial authorities are absolutely powerless, because there are some applicable laws that involve stealing small values. That is why I think it would be necessary to bring the regulations into line, all the legal rules and that every act of this kind is somehow considered an act of diversion to destroy the objects of the Republic of Serbia. You don't say anything here in the bill of law. The SRS has put up with this one amendment. So, Mr. Grouchy, when you consider these things, take this seriously. I think you'll have in mind all these things that we're talking about here, both us from the SRS and from other parliamentary groups, look at and adopt some of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59237	Do any of the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want to use their business rights to address the session of the National Assembly in this part of the session? If so, please sign into the electronic voting system. Since there are no authorised representatives, nor the president of the parliamentary groups, we move on to the debate, and by the application of the word. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs, submitted: the Manjin parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group, the ZES parliamentary group, the DSS MP group, the Progressive Serbia Group, the SRS parliamentary group. We move to the part of the session when the right to speak is given by MPs, and according to the order and according to the application for a word in the general search of the draft law on railways. The first registered speaker is MP Bajram Omeragic, and after that is MP Marija Bulgarcic. National MP Bajram Omeragic has other obligations, so MP Marija Bulgarcic has a word, followed by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59238	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected members of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, you gave relatively logical and rational reasons in the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Railways. This is a very specific law dealing with narrow and professional problems, regulation and operation of rail traffic, all in line with European directives. This means that you have the ambition to liberalise rail transport in Serbia and finally reconstruct railways, as one of the conditions for opening the rail market. However, it should also be noted that this whole process has been delayed for years. It continues to practice that significant laws are passed at the last moment, under the pressure of time, regulations and various requirements. We had a European directive since 1991, which established basic frameworks for the functioning of modern rail traffic. At that time, the opening of the railway market and the creation of free access to infrastructure were foreseen. It also provides for the independence of rail management, which is not exactly the case in our rail traffic. Also, training a national operator for a free competition. To solve a comprehensive situation, we cannot do it overnight, nor will this law fully regulate it. For years, the railway industry has been a kind of social category for the transport of the most socially endangered people, for the transport of the cheapest goods, i.e. for the transport of the cheapest tariff goods, i.e. those for which the transport was paid little. For years, the state has forced road infrastructure, while rail infrastructure has been neglected. In your performances, Mr. Minister, we've always heard Corridor 10, Corridor 10, but you never mentioned rail corridor 10, and that's what we resent. That's because, probably, elections are won on the road and certainly not on the track, and these reforms will take a long time. Even in the light of this law, they say more has been invested in the roads than in the railways. In previous years, we have one indicator from 2004, where the railway is invested ten times less than in travel infrastructure. Can it be corrected by this law? We think, of course, that it cannot be corrected by this law, while we wait for others to go forward and the railways give absolute advantage. In Europe, the roads are blocked, the air corridors are filled, traffic is causing incredible traffic and these costs in Europe are being monitored, Mr. Minister, year by year and they are about 10% of the national social gross product. In our country, it's not being followed. We don't know how much it's worth. It's about 500 billion euros in Europe, and we don't know that. Nobody's following this situation around here at all. Also, this law is one thing and the conditions for its application are something else. The point is that the rail traffic in Serbia is so worn out, obsolete and for its application and reconstruction takes tens of years for sure, billions of euros, which I don't know where you'll find. It takes over 4.7 billion euros to train railway corridor 10. I don't know, because there's another wave of economic crisis, do you have any vision of where we're going to find that money? The law can be ideal, but this doesn't solve the essential question for sure. The Serbian railways, despite the measures taken, are on the turn of events and events, when it comes to restructuring, as one of the conditions for the competition for the competition. We are the last in Europe, the last railways in Serbia, which are no longer a public enterprise, are our railways. Only legal form has changed, but the essence hasn't changed at all. By not completing Corridor 10, we're talking about rail corridor 10, not roadside. The advantage of transport will be given to Corridor 4, absolutely sure and this is the Corridor through Romania and Bulgaria, only then will we be in a serious problem. Thus, the importance of the law is not crucial, so even this law will not make much better. The law can be better or worse, besides all the laws in the railway region are regulated in more or less the same way as the proposal for this law. The question is whether it is realistic to implement the law in practice and whether it is possible to open the market quickly and quality under equal conditions, which means that the national operator does not fail and also to open the market without our people losing their jobs in the railways. Also, is it possible to train our national competition operator and is it possible for our national operator to become competitive in a short time, you will admit to the harsh competition that is coming to us safely? Is it also possible in the next period that these additional billions of euros for the training of our corridor and everything else, is it possible to find that money and where are we going to pay for it? Will the state want and be able to meet the legal obligations it has towards the railway in financial consolidation, that is a very important issue for Serbia's Railways? Also, will the Railways be able, with the proper role of the state, to achieve its existence on its own market? We know there are budget donations everywhere in Europe, but ours, you'll admit, are too big. When will normal conditions be established for this? The law itself represents only a potential, a framework for something to be fulfilled in the concrete activities of all actors on our political scene. This huge system would make it look like all the normal European railway companies, not that these intentions just remain a dead letter on paper. So far, no fundamental changes have been made. I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Minister. This law was in Brussels, your associates wore it, you got the green light from Brussels. I'm interested, when you asked for this to happen in stages, in stages, you asked for it to be national level operators in the first phase, phase two to be regional and third to be a comprehensive approach. How far did that go? Did you get the green light for it or didn't you? It's something that LDP MPs are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59239	Eight minutes have been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Bajram Omeragic, so the MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take this opportunity, since today's railway law is on the agenda, to kind of repeat what I've been saying in Parliament for years, not to return to much earlier, but at least to this government mandate, it's already the fourth year, and we've almost heard about that, that certain parts of the Republic of Serbia got the railroad even in 1864, and that we have a situation that the railway came to Raska about 100 years and 20 and a few kilometers ago travel a hundred years ago. I haven't heard an explanation for three mandates yet, as far as I'm an MP in this House, that someone tells me why the railroad travels for 20 years and some years and 50 or 100 years there's no explanation, everyone says there's no point, no justification, no logic, but there have been hundreds of budget rebalances, international debts, credit lines and so forth, and we don't have the will and will to do this. Once they say the CIP didn't do the project documentation, they say it didn't enter the spatial plan. We experience entering a spatial plan, and then they say, "You know what, we don't have money in the budget." We are now facing budget rebalancing, and I am taking the opportunity, after a hundred years and those former Sandzak MPs, who have been saying for a hundred years in this House, to correct a historical injustice against the Sandzak citizens and the New Pazar regional centre, to make sure that this budget rebalancing is the means for the Novi Pazar-Raška railway line, and thus to facilitate and facilitate those who on such difficult occasions in Sandzak, given that rail traffic, as you know, is the cheapest, given that all the economic policy measures of our government did not have some very far-reaching results in our region. You know that for an employee, the government predicted 10,000 euros, who employs a single worker's new market. Despite 10,000 euros, no foreign company has opened any jobs. When we talk to foreign companies, they ask if we have an airport, a highway, a railroad and they say -- that you give us 50,000 euros, we won't come. What we predicted, those 10,000 euros, is that every measure taken by the Government implies, it is everywhere in the world, the measure is being taken, but some plan is being made to measure it, so after three months it doesn't give any result, so after six months it doesn't give any result, so whoever takes that measure says -- wait, that measure doesn't give results, let's change something or create the conditions to sort of achieve that measure. We don't do it, we don't invest in the highway, we don't invest in the Railways, and we wonder why Sandzak is the only region in this country where there's no foreign investment dollars. It's not right, and I don't think the Sandzak citizens deserve it, and we need to do something about it immediately. I urge the Minister to rebalance the budget with a figure that will finance this railway, because this track will only partially mitigate the infrastructure problems that this most underdeveloped region has. The figure to be set in the financing budget for this railway is not a problem for the state of Serbia. I would not like to use this time here to mention other projects that have been voted on here and I have voted, I will vote for this law, because all of these laws that bring us closer to the EU, and all of this that is going towards the EU, we believe that it will bring improvement to our citizens, but simply, we have to simply, in a way, regionalize and bring some kind of harmony and with the resources of those for whom we are in debt, and we simply know well, I have mentioned here many times the Report and the EU and individually certain countries, how many donations we have received, and that these funds have come to our region in a very small amount. I think, Mr. Mrkonjic, that it's about time that, in this fourth year of the term of office, the Corridor 11, the highway, and that we do this 20-mile-long track in our region. When the Alpina Por concession to Corridor failed, we had to sell a telecommunications operator. I also, as a Messenger of the people, spoke; give at least half the figure to invest in Corridor 11, to employ our operation. We had a billion cash and some dollars. Today we would have at least 100 kilometers of that highway, if we had employed our operation here, would be doing our companies, would support investment, our people would receive salaries, would have a way. But then there was no hearing about it, that money we spent, we don't have times, we don't have that kind of infrastructure, and just our overall economic development in that sense is slowed down. So I think the time has come for us to turn the other side and send a message to the Sandzak citizens that this country has not forgotten them and that they have the right to, if we are in charge of Bor hundreds of millions of euros, if we are in charge of other parts of hundreds of millions of euros, I think these citizens deserve to end the track, because it is not only those citizens' interest. The railway tomorrow should continue towards Tutin and be another foot towards Montenegro and simply speed up that undeveloped area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59241	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, followed by MP Rada Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59242	Honored chairman, ministers, respected colleagues. This is a very important law, this is a very important topic. Five years have passed since the Law on Railways was passed. Here, for the sixth year of the last and it is quite logical in one reform spirit and time to pass a new law, however, it is not only the purpose of passing laws to make them more modern, and the railway and railway infrastructure from year to year increasingly ruined. We know that traffic infrastructure in every country is an engine of economic development, economic recovery and at all economics in every country. All of these are reasons why the SPO considered it necessary to step up with Europe and make modern and Serbian, and therefore in previous elections, after the previous elections, after the 11 May 2008 elections, we accepted a coalition with the SPS, as it threatened to create an anti-European government headed by the DSS and the SRS, at that time while Tomislav Nikolic was still in it. That is why I am talking about some of the commitments undertaken by the Serbian state, precisely in Corridor ten to 2020, where the entire length, from the Croatian border to Belgrade, across Nis to the Macedonian border, and the north-east end to Sudotica and Dimitrovgrad, should be completed. What's done with the train power? What was done with the infrastructure of traffic, Serbian railways? What about the commitment? It is a question that is much more plagued by the citizens of Serbia and which is more plagued by parliament than whether we will pass the law, and I will remind you that the law does not bring improvement on the railways, but that it is law enforcement. That is why I am saying that in some previous period other than the criminal one in the previous mandate, we have not seen any shift or need of the people who ran the railways and who led the Ministry of Infrastructure to move forward through modernisation and agreement with the EU. As some indicator, I'm going to say, for example, here I have data to say, in Serbia in an hour on average, a train travels 45 kilometers. Out of a total of 3800km of track in Serbia, only 3% can develop a speed greater than 100km per hour. The composition from Belgrade to Nis travels for more than five hours. The bar train almost daily only takes an hour to get out of Belgrade and reach Rakovica. These are questions for Minister Mrkonjic. It is good that the law is given, the established national railway infrastructure programme for a period of 5 years, but again, we must see what is and with the previous period, what has been done so far, and it is good that the Railway Directorate is given great powers to issue railway management licenses, to carry out transport and to ensure safety because we must finally introduce transparency in the work, so we would ask the Minister to ensure in all possible ways this transparency and control of the work of the Directorate in the future, given that we have very bad experience from the past. The rail costs are very high, much higher than the revenues because the railway is in this state and then we get promises from the minister and based on this contract that we have with Europe that the traffic infrastructure must be improved it can only be improved by investment. Then we come to today's interview in Blica, Minister Mrkonjic, who says it is unfavourable to take loans to build infrastructure from other countries, from world and European financial institutions, he wants to say from countries located in the West and that it is much better, under much worse conditions to take, say, from Russia, Turkey, China or Azerbaijan. He further explains that although the conditions are worse, although interest rates are much more favourable, because investors, i.e. loans that would be received from those countries, are conditionally said from the east, would not mean that contractors on those tracks would be companies that they would dictate. One paragraph says, with the Chinese, we have a similar job building bridges, and a very certain Russian loan of $800 million, and performers will be Russian companies. Isn't that the same thing that applies to EU countries, Western countries, should not apply to Russia, unless the minister has something to do with Mirjana Markovic, so she recommends some companies that could perform works on railway infrastructure. Serbia is moving towards the EU, and its ministers are heading towards Serbia's return in the 1990s, and when we look at what needs to be done by 2020 and what are our agreed commitments, then we realize that it cannot go hand in hand to enlarge the masseous serial killer and the criminal, and to meet the obligations towards the EU, and then we realize that there are some people who would eventually want Serbia back in the 1990s, to continue in the way their idol led the country, full 10 years in the sun and in the fight with the EU, to continue their work. For this reason, in a future period, I hope that we will not have the need to choose between Europe and Serbia's return in the 1990s, which is why I hope that in a more modern way we will approach the political functioning itself, that political parties will present their programmes and that the European perspective and the future and the accession of Serbia to the EU will bring peace and stability, bring expertise, first and foremost, to those places that guarantee the future for generations to come, and therefore I hope that political personnel of the past, political staff of Slobodan Milosevic, will forever forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59243	Radojko Obradovic has the People's MP, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59244	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, an extremely important law on the agenda and an extremely important area, because railways are important for each country, and it is important that the law is well-organised, because railways are specific. All other roads are less or more unlimited resources. At the same time, one waterway, air or highway can pass a large number of vehicles, through one point, and only one train can pass on the railway. It is extremely important for this law to be well-organised by the railway system. Why does the government propose, and the Assembly makes laws, because it is important that the laws define the areas, to define the rights and obligations of all those who function in one area. In explaining the reasons for the law being passed, the minister dropped one important thing that stands in the light of the law itself. This is also an explanation of why the law is passed by emergency procedure? At this point, infrastructure management and water traffic concerns from the recently JP "Serb Railways" and this company's decision to change the legal form has become an action society, and the decision has been published in "The Official Messenger", and it is necessary to pass legislation to create an environment and that the Serbian Railways can function. It's not a negligible thing as a reason for law-making. We can talk about the model this law provides. The law establishes new obligations for the government, establishes some obligations for the Serbian Parliament, as the government proposes a plan of functioning, the Assembly adopts this and the plan further develops the entire system in Serbia. There are new obligations for the Government for the Minister, new powers for the Directorate for Railways, which should in some way be an independent regulatory body that will take care of the state of the infrastructure and all those participants in the passenger, combined and transport of goods on our territory. You have not said a word about the state of the infrastructure, in any state of the public enterprise, or the "Serbs of Serbia" action society, as it operates, which are the problems in the business of the company, because these are all important reasons for this law to start working. In order for a law to be good at applying, which is important, because a dead letter on paper or what it says on paper, if it doesn't live in real life, it doesn't have any effect. That's all the important stuff. The assessment and real assessment of the situation in an area are extremely important when the law is written. The law can be ideal, and if it's not the right time and the right time, if we're not able to apply that law to the right degree, then there's no ideal law. The establishment gives us a new body that should be independent of the executive government, which is called the Railway Directorate. The Railway Directorate decides who will manage the infrastructure, who will manage the railways. The law says the railways are run by a company founded by the Republic of Serbia, probably referring to Serbia's railways. In the next position of the law, it says that infrastructure can be managed by another company, private, public or whatever. The idea is to create competition in infrastructure management. What makes sense, then, that the Railways Directorate determines the governance bodies of the railway companies? What logic is there and whether there is any private society that will allow an independent regulatory body to set up for it by the managing authorities, or whether it directly eliminates the possibility that anyone other than the public sector can manage the infrastructure in the railways. It's unsustainable for both of us. On the other hand, it is not said whether there is anywhere in the world of railways that can be financed beyond the budget and whether there are any railways in Europe, to limit ourselves to Europe, which does not have a large investment of the Republic to develop and maintain infrastructure. I don't think there is. Austria invested four billion euros in its railway last year, which works well, and it cannot be economically self-sustainable either. So what's the point of a public enterprise forming the Republic paying a licence to maintain the infrastructure of the Directorate, if both of them are living off the budget? Why don't we finally introduce a transparent business and say, yes, infrastructure is important for the state, it's a state business, it can't be economically sustainable, but isn't it pointless then a public enterprise that was founded only for this job, to ask for a license from another company that exists to give it a job. This law has been in effect for six years and tell me if there is any interest, if anyone has reported doing this job outside the public undertaking of the Serbian Railway Company. Another thing, have you carefully looked at the conditions for someone to have the ability to manage infrastructure? The conditions are that he must have stable finances, that he must carry out his duties 12 months in advance, that he must have an ideal financial picture. Serbia's railways will never get a job in maintenance and infrastructure management if the law applies. Does that mean you're shutting down Serbia's railways, and it's legitimate, but tell us, we'll shut down the Serbia Railroad when this law comes into force. Serbia's railways under this law will never get a license to manage the infrastructure, they cannot get it, because they do not meet the conditions laid down by this law. If a company, i.e. an infrastructure-operated company, has no economic viability or has no reason to manage one of the railways, it may be subject to local self-government. I don't know if we're talking about local self-government in Serbia, or whether we're talking about local self-government of some other states. I don't know any local self-government in Serbia that has solved all of its problems and will now take on more management and some kind of railroad, because it could have been under the old law. Is there one single municipality in Serbia, which has, and there is a gentleman from Jagodina, whether Jagodina will take some railroad to run it, as Jagodina stands well. Has anyone reported in six years to run it? Well, the state can't manage infrastructure, so now the local self-government will own it. The infrastructure manager decides who he's gonna assign the train route to. The train's route user is competing with him and he's getting a license. This separates transport from infrastructure maintenance. That can be good, but that, too, and those members who define it, means abolishing Serbia's JP Railway, because one company cannot manage infrastructure at the same time and deal with transport. He can't, because that's what the law says. If so, why do you propose this law to us by emergency procedure, because the "Serb Railway" established as an action society does not meet the conditions of this law, because it must be fully physically separate and financially, even stressing that they must be with separate accounts. So what they've been doing, what they've been doing, by emergency procedure, doesn't mean anything at all, because that decision is nothing when this law starts to apply, because they have to be two companies, it can't be one thing. So the reason for the emergency procedure doesn't mean anything. The second thing, you haven't told us anything about how you think cargo and passenger transport is being organised because it's two completely separate things and there's sure to be a lot of interested companies here who are interested in getting a freight route, but almost no one will be interested in transporting passengers. Serbia has ten times fewer transported passengers last year than some surrounding countries, which have far fewer inhabitants. Why is that? It's very simple, if it's a transport you don't have a guarantee of how long it's gonna take, if the trains are late, if they're in bad shape, then, of course, everyone will turn to some other forms of transportation. That's the thing to talk about openly. The only way to solve the problem is to see if there is a chance that this transformation will create parts of the company that will be economically profitable. Seventeen thousand workers, as many as there are today, if only physically divided into several new businesses, if it's a complicated job that you've just started, it's a safe way to not solve problems. First thing, the stock company doesn't meet the requirements of the law. Action society must be organised differently and these must be physically divided enterprises. You shouldn't have delivered a law like this. Say "Serbian Railway" will take care of both transport and all and over. Why are we passing any law? If passing the law is a matter of form and not a question of essence, then we can pass a law of whatever you want. Bring the law of one member and say, "The railroad of Serbia" will do this job and keep God helping you all. This law was written for another country, not for Serbia, for other railways, not for railways like we have today. This law is a safe way for railways to have fewer passengers, since there are fewer passengers this year than the previous ones. This law is a safe path to have even fewer passengers next year and that instead of solving the situation in this area, the road is safe to create even greater chaos in the railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59245	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Stefan Zankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59246	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I often visit each session of the Assembly, the congregation library, to see what the time behind us says about certain laws that this high house has brought. Just a few years ago, between 18th and 26th of January 2005, a session of the Serbian Parliament was held, which also discussed the Law on Railways, and in a historical reminder just to remind me of some discussions that were heard at the time in this room, and it was not so long ago. I'll also remind you of the time that was long after us. So when we talk about that session of the Assembly when it was passed the Law on Railways, we had interesting observations, thinking, attitudes, and here's what some MPs say. Mr. Milan Stanimirovic, I'm sorry that he's not in the O.R. right now, that he can speak, from DS is, he has some other obligation right now, he says - we've been through our history passing a lot of laws on railways. The most interesting thing was when we introduced the railway into Serbia, then the debate was discussed the following way. Some said at the time that we didn't need the railroad because it came from the west. From the west comes everything bad and it will destroy our fields and forests and our rivers and scare our cattle and our game and Serbia will lose what it has always been through the centuries. For only one vote, however, it was decided to join the construction of the railway. Mr. Moma Markovic, who is an MP and in this assembly, my dear colleague, then discusses this way. "Serbia is the hub of Europe. Without us, you can't go to Europe. The Turks and the Greeks cannot help but cross Serbia." Mr. Zoran Krasic, also an MP in this assembly, reminds the director that it might be better to take the train on the official road, not the official car, and see how many kilometers the trains take an hour. Now to go back to a little further history, about 1854, the first time in today's Serbia's space was built a railway line in Vojvodina, then it was the territory of Austro-Hungarian, under the Austrian administration, and that railroad was moving somewhere from Lisa via Oravica to Basijas. First she was with a horse's grip, then she was a laundry locomotive since 1856. At the time of the Ottoman Empire, we have the first railroad in 1874. She connected Skopje with Kosovo Mitrovica and then we arrive at a very important year in Serbia's history – in 1878. At that time, Serbia is ruled by Milan Obrenovic as a prince, only 24 years old. At the Berlin Congress, Serbia gets Toplički, Niski, Pirotic and Vranj County, and in return, since Austro-Hungarian supported us, as nothing in our history when the world supports us was free, and that support was not free at the time. We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, made a commitment that year to pass a concession law that we will give to Austro-Hungarian to build a railway connecting Belgrade and Skopje. On the day of the convention's vote in the Serbian Parliament, this was how it was discussed. The People's MP of the then Kingdom of Serbia, since 1872, says this - what will Serbia do? The MP is the SRS. If you delete the year, it's very easy for you not to know what time you're talking about. He says -- what Serbia's railway is going to need, Serbia's railway is not needed. Here, to put horse carriages from Belgrade to Nis, to make ten changes to Lapov and Jagodina, Alexinca, etc., lists cities, I'll get to Nis by horse carriages faster than a train that's only 36 kilometers an hour. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a Western novelty that aims to make that locomotive smoke and scares off our cows that will give less milk. That's what used to be said about the railway in Serbia, and then we came to this time when it turned out that the railway had played and what an important role. Serbia broke out of Austria's embrace, let the French work the railways. The "Serbian Railway" played a major role in World War I, and then we come to the day of today and we intend to regulate rail transport and goods by law today, so on several occasions I will commit myself to today's law. First, I have an objection to a member of the 46th Law, which says that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, brings a national programme of railway infrastructure, in the following text, a national programme. It now lists what the national programme covers, but unfortunately this norm is not defined precisely because it does not say the deadline in which the national programme will be adopted. I know there's probably some default deadline, but to be precise, maybe it's not worse to define exactly the deadline within which a national programme has to be adopted, because the national programme is being passed over a period of five years, it is submitted by the government to the National Assembly. Based on the national programme, the infrastructure manager builds an annual reconstruction programme and it may not be bad to say that the national programme will be delivered by 31 December 2011 or by 1 April 2012, but that we have a deadline within which it will be implemented. I have other discussions to look back on. 58, 59, 62 and 63. So, first Article 58. There were some MPs here asking a question - will local self-government show interest in mastering the railways? Well, for the track management probably not, but Serbia's railways have plenty of land next to those tracks. The town of Kruševac, where I come from, is a city through which the railway line passes. Unfortunately, rail traffic between Stalac, Kruševac, Triestenik and Požega is currently in a state of interruption. The Henkel factory often delivers the goods by train via Lapov, then through Kragujevac, then through the Kings, and then the composition "Henkel" comes to other Kruševec factories. But the town of Kruševac has, as I say, a railroad that passes and has land. The town of Kraljevo also has a common land, as the railway passes through the Kralje and on the railway land, under the previous law, construction is prohibited at a distance of 25 metres from the railway line. The abundance of investments, at this moment both in Kruševec and in the King stands because of this provision and here, I am a representative of this city and the local self-government that is very interested, I will ask the question - who is it, here we have those who are interested in investing in our cities, that this railway land is granted to local self-government in accordance with the law and that we bring it to the point, because it has not been used adequately for the time being. That's why I have to commend you and this provision to give us free hands now, to have this land run properly, this is good. It's an incentive to those local self-governments who want to work and I don't see any obstacles or legal brakes. I think you've done a good job with this legal provision and should be commended for this provision of the law. When we talk about article 59 in Article 59, it is said that any disposal of waste, garbage, and wastewater spills are prohibited in the infrastructure belt, but it is said that no sources of strong light and any objects and devices that reduce the visibility of railway signals by color, shape or light. There are advertisements across Serbia that are located on railway land. They're senior-generation ads. They often blind trains, there's new ads for the new generation, and I think that could be defined in more detail, which of the ads can be placed along this protective belt and what not. Also, we have another important provision in Article 59, which is, it says - waste and waste disposal is prohibited. When you take the tracks of Serbia, you see the dumps of garbage that everyone here puts off the way he likes it. We now have Serbian cities that have municipal police. The communal police should be given the authority to punish both the people who put the garbage away and make the train land dumps to store that garbage. Article 62 states that there are railways and railway infrastructure parts where public transport has been suspended. We've got more of those tracks and more miles of those tracks. Some of them pass through large business entities and factories, such as the factory "14th October" in Kruševec, such as the factory "Aleva" in Novi Knezvec. There's a rail track going through the middle of the factory that doesn't start anywhere and doesn't end anywhere. Once upon a time these tracks were removed, but the owners of these factories were domestically doing business, they did not enter the railway land, although it limits them to perform normal work. I was at the Aleva factory. There the railroad passes and is fenced with wire on the left and right and stands in the middle of the factory and people cannot perform their product work in the way they should do it. I think this problem will solve too. This law, unfortunately, does not regulate tourism railways. We have the Sargon Eight, which exists on Wet Gora, which also belongs to the railway, but it is likely that some additions to the law will be arranged by the work of the tourist railway. In the world, in some EU countries and cableways are regulated as rail traffic. Maybe it could be done with us. I guess sometimes some kind of transportation will organize in Serbia. For the end, I just need to mention a few more things. I am a Kruševljan, but there are several acres of land in Kruševec that is common land, which is not defined. We do not know exactly how many railway lands are on the territory of the town of Kruševec, how many on Serbia's territory. This land represents a certain resource and a certain capital. It would be worth defining how this land will be granted to local self-government. At the meeting of the Traffic and Connections Committee, I asked – why we do not have any provisions on the safety of rail traffic, but I received assurances that a safety law on rail transport and goods is being prepared soon, which is for every commendation. He needs to be adopted as soon as possible. Then, along with this law, it will represent a comprehensive continent that will and will allow for the improvement of rail traffic in Serbia. In the end, this too will be part of some of the stenographic notes in the future or "Mozaika of Time" broadcast on Radio Belgrade, that someone will judge this in the way I spoke. I have to ask again - what's going on with the Stalac-Kruševac-Trstenik-Začak-Požega railroad? When is this railroad going to get into some normal function? As a student, I took a train to Belgrade. That train was driven like a passenger train from the King, drove every week and was a good passenger train. Today, the train and traffic between these cities are being traced. In the end, Mr. Mrkonjic, a few years ago I asked you a question – what about the road bypass around the Kings? You made a promise that it would be over. A lot of people in this room laughed at you, both me and you. I have to thank you on behalf of the town of Kruševec for the completion of this bypass, which is what that circular flow has been made, which is making two more and informing you, ever since these circular flows have been made, no traffic accident has happened, no man has been injured, so those who have been unfaithful Tom and laughed at me and you, may at least go out on that roundabout and say, thank you, because after our term, this will not be said and carried home, it remains for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Kruševec. I have to tell you in the end, when you get to Kruševac next time, we'll take a tour of the village with us by foot. It was built in part on land belonging to Serbia's railways. There are a lot of unregulated property-legal relations, and it would be good if these relations were resolved in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59247	It was used 15 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Stefan Zankov has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59248	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, before I comment on the solution in the draft law on railways in principle, I will look into the current situation, what was in the earlier period and what people in power promise to be in the future. I don't think this debate would have been entirely significant without it. In the previous period, years ago, investment in railways was minimal and insufficient, even for maintaining the functionality of the system and were far below the investment average and from our neighbouring countries. Why does it matter? Because we have a situation where transport is moving across, say, Romania and Bulgaria. As a result of outdated equipment, lack of towables, bad organizations occur so-called. "low throats" when there's a blockage...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59249	I'm sorry, my mistake, MP. I'm really sorry. Please sign in. I wanted to delete the board, or the names of the other MPs. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59250	I accept it's a mistake. So there's a traffic jam, i.e. Train build-up, so you pay for the car, because "Serb Railways" did not respect this deadline for which cars should pass through our country. Only for renting foreign cars, because, as I said, our railways are missing, we pay more than 10m euros or a billion dinars according to official data. As a result of all of this, the experts' evaluations fall into the water that our railway could generate revenue from 250m to 300m euros only from transit goods, via Corridor, and today it is three or four times smaller. So, you need to invest, but you also need to eliminate the problems I'm also going to talk about, with a much more efficient organisation of the system of work. Five years ago, an average of 16% of passenger trains were cancelled, resulting in an average annual loss of revenues in passenger traffic of 300 million dinars, while freight traffic is three times higher. As a result of the poor technical condition of the railway, so-called "light driving" which I'm going to discuss later on specific examples. The situation in Timoko province is incomparably more difficult than the average in Serbia. The first track of the normal track was released nearly 100 years ago, 1914. At that time, there were more traffic trains on the team tracks than 100 years later. This situation occurred because not one single dinar was invested in the railway, and maintenance funds themselves were seriously questioned. Because of this, some data that are really extremely problematic, at the part of the Zaječar railway – Nis at a length of 114 kilometers, has 68 kilometers of light driving and the train travels for about three hours and 20 minutes. At the part of the Zaječar – Povorec railway in the length of 181 kilometers, there are 80 kilometers of light driving, the train travels four hours and 50 minutes. The speed of the turn is limited to 10 kilometers per hour because there are no thresholds. The only train connecting Zajecar with Belgrade was more traffic. The relevant driving order has been significantly reduced. Many trains have been cancelled, and passenger traffic has been halved. A special story is a lack of both tow and tow. It should be stressed that in this part of Serbia there are systems such as RTB Bor, the port of Prahovo, that I do not list further, which are, or will move on to alternative freight transport. Or when the new law comes to life, it'll go to another operator. It happened on this area that even a dozen days ago, there was not a single locomotive for the towing of freight trains, which stand and for which the railway paid for the foam, which I was talking about. Those foams eat the full profit of their transportation. I just wanted to show how well-prepared and perfected we are entering the competition, and with which the money of the Serbian Railways is being welcomed by the new railway law. What else are the objectives of the new railway law per proposing? Improving services, introducing competition and more investment. Competition is something new, and there is much left to achieve in the current legal frameworks. But well, that's what's on the paper. In practice, the adoption of this law will have consequences, if we look at the experiences of other countries – Slovenia, Romania, just dispersing the rail system into smaller continents, which will either be sold, or will go bankrupt, which is not in itself a problem. The biggest problem is that in this sector there will be thousands of workers who will be jobless, and most agree, that is what is the most painful and important thing in Serbia to solve today. The consequences will be, in practice, the gift of the transport market, hence foreign operators' profits, estimated at more than 100m euros annually. That's why this law is passed, without the preparation of our company. How would it be prepared, when years ago it's a common prey of ruling parties. Just one piece of information, also from the railroad itself and the people who do it. By systematization in 1987, the number of personnel managers in what was then called traffic transport work was 13, around 20,000 workers at the time. Today, ten thousand traffic workers, goods and passenger transport, as it is today called, number 363, conditioned, manager. It is clear to all that the Serbian Railways have come to this number, under the influence of certain things that have nothing to do with the organisation of companies, i.e. under the influence of political parties, above all. There seems to be no big difference in the text of the law compared to the current Law on Railways, but only what I've been talking about so far is enough to question the functioning of the entire system. Of course, we're going to talk more about amendments to talk about individual solutions, but right now, just a few observations. The safety belt on both sides of the track on the proposal is no longer 200 meters but 100 meters. Someone might say it doesn't matter, perhaps, but it's not far from Belgrade. In Belgrade, it is a lot and can only be built with the consent of the owners, which is extremely suitable for various abuses. Some definitions in the text of the draft law threaten the market conditions of business – Article 3 point 14. Some are contrary to the Public Procurement Act - point 27. Furthermore, it sounds inconclusive that the condition relating to the professionality of issuing a licence for the management of railway infrastructure is met if the applicant has or will have an administration that has knowledge, experience that is necessary in a safe and reliable way to control and monitor the performance, etc. — Article 10, point 3. Also, the condition should be that the applicant should have an even more precise definition in the working relationship between professional and qualified people who will deal with licensing activities. The question arises whether the transport licence is smarter to issue for a specified time, with the possibility of extension, or as proposed here indefinitely, in Article 67. I say, in the end, we'll talk about it when there's a debate in particular. The draft Law on Railways also left out the part concerning the safety of rail traffic, because it will be regulated by special laws – the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic. Without this law, the Law on Railways has no function and the question is whether it can begin with its application without adopting the new law I was talking about. This is a picture of the railway in Serbia today. What's the future? We are witnessing, as in other areas, the great promises of the people of power – about billions of euros by 2015 and so on. It's a long way from some reality that was said here, where on several occasions it was planned even if certain railway knots, such as Zaczarska, were shut down and the dissatisfaction of citizens. The big problem of all state-owned enterprises is the accidental spending of funds by the management. Looks like it's more pronounced here. It's very easy to check. First, because of the difficult financial situation, and in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Railways of Serbia, no funds were provided for so-called. labor-sports games. They came to realize that they organised these gatherings as thematic conferences on traffic safety mainly in Vrnjačka Banja, costing millions of dinars, and the content was the same as at the labor-sports games. It's not right to do that with state-owned enterprises, so in the end, and with government money. The ministry gives paid posts, and few people know in Belgrade, trade unions, which in itself is pointless, above the number foreseen even by a collective contract. Each of these functions costs a couple hundred thousand dinars a month, and there are more than a hundred. Employment on the party line, without any criteria, paying tens of thousands of euros in various diaries, representation costs, drivers and travel. Therefore, the unfavorable wastes money, instead of being rationally spent on repairing infrastructure and towing and hauling. All of this can be very easy to determine and everyone knows it's true. Because of all of this, therefore, the very poor state of infrastructure and trains, unargued promises that are measured by billions, the homeless management of state-owned enterprises, citizens, and especially by railway workers, are justifiably concerned about what will happen when a new railway law begins to apply. People who work there probably don't expect that, as in Switzerland, the transit of goods is carried out exclusively by rail, because of pollution, noise, the preservation of travel infrastructure, or as in Germany, that practically the railway has a monopoly on the transport of passengers in certain relations, but expects the state to be in their interest, and the state interest here is undeniable, manages this important system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59251	Twelve minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Once again, I'm sorry for the really unintentional mistake you were distracted by after two minutes of speech. The Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic, has a word, and after him is the messenger of the people Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a new railway law, as the government has seen, in that old law since 2005, what they have said in the explanation, the brakes of the development of Serbian railways and the obstacle to the copying of railways from neighbouring countries, EU members. Before I continue the discussion, we should remove here a dilemma, which was created in the previous discussion of MPs from the DS, which wondered what was the difference between Milan Obrenovic's time and today? The difference is more than 127 years and nine kilometers per hour, a speed that even Lucky Topalovic has overcome. At that time, as his colleague said, trains from Nis to Belgrade were going at a speed of 36km per hour. Now, when this government leads us through fast tracks in the EU, trains from Belgrade to Nis go at an average speed of 45km per hour. This law could not be some bright spot on the way to the EU if, as usual, not all of the EU directive, which is allegedly going to improve this situation in our railway. The earlier law carried out the division of works in rail traffic, and it obviously did not work, transporting services through structures, the steering part, and especially when it comes to tenders, the purchase of locomotives, trains, wagons, the availability of huge loans for the improvement of railways, which are partly converted into apartments, apartments, which are spent on seminars and training abroad. You, Mr. Minister, have a rather difficult task in terms of improving the Serbian railway. To begin with, to give the law great powers to the Railway Directorate and, among other things, the possibility to adopt sublegal acts by the same. You probably know where the Serbian railway is today. It's not funny at all, that data anyone can find in the official analysis if they want to. The fact is that on two-thirds of Serbian railways, rail traffic takes place at a speed of less than 60km per hour. This isn't the time of steam locomotives, so if something like this were normal, this is the 21st century, and that's why this data works and it's funny, but it's not real. At its session in late August, the Serbian Railways Assembly adopted a project to reconstruct the railways that would allow train speeds up to 200km per hour. Probably for foreign trains, it would be for our own to break down the system. If that's real, I'll see you soon. It's nice, Mr. Minister, what people want, but another piece of information stings our eyes, which shows how much you need it to change the situation in the Serbian railway. What's this about? Serbia's railway has existed since 1884, since the days of King Milan Obrenovic. A few years later, the railway network spread beyond Serbia, so by the end of the 19th century, the famous "Orient Express" was widely trafficked through Serbia. The "Orient Express" team arrived from Belgrade to Nis in five hours and 45 minutes. The average speed was 45.5 kilometers per hour. Today by passenger train from Belgrade to Nis, by passenger, you will travel six full hours and a few minutes higher, at an average speed of 44.7 km per hour. There, Mr. Minister, there is a difficult task ahead of you, to improve the time spent on our railways, achieved at the end of the 19th century, and to repair it in at least 15 minutes. In this way, King Milan Obrenovic should be proud of his railway and, by any chance, to compete with Boris Tadic's railway, he would win. Speaking of speeds and EU plans, or plans to enter the European rail system, here's what it looks like in several examples in individual countries, with which we would like to build a common system. We go in line, track record, Germany – 368 kilometers per hour, "Europe Star" – 334 kilometers per hour, Italy "Pendolini" – 300 kilometers per hour, Spain "Ave" – 300 kilometers per hour, Sweden "2000" – 275 kilometers per hour, Britain "Inter-site" – 260 kilometers per hour. Here, with these flying locomotives, we need to integrate our railway with the speed of the Obrenović era. In order to get our railway into order, you must first of all have huge financial resources, and they are located with European investment banks and the IMF. But when you take something, you have to pay huge loans. The epilogue is already visible, you will get the means to do something cosmetically, it will go away as it has in Serbia so far, the debt will increase, and the situation will remain the same. I'm saying this because the government's argument mentions significant railway modernisation, and this law only sets the stage for all of it. I really don't understand when in one part of the government's argument you state the fact that the costs of these investments in the modernisation of rail citizens and businesses, so you emphasized especially small and medium-sized enterprises, will not even feel it. You need billions of euros for that. The railroad doesn't have that money. Serbia will be in debt, and thus the debt will fall on the back of the entire people. So if there's nothing concrete to be done with these funds, then some people really need to get stuck in jail. This opinion is the opinion of the citizens of Serbia, and I believe you agree with that, Mr. Minister. The SRS has submitted a lot of amendments to this bill. In the follow-up of the discussion, I will look back at several members, due to time. Article 6 deals with the categorisation of railways, and local railways are listed in point 3. First of all, a large number of these local railways have probably grown into weeds a long time ago. Local self-government certainly doesn't have the means to hold them in some way, of course, in coordination with the railways, which again has no interest in participating in all this, because those relations at the place are quite unreservable. The municipalities don't rag holes in asphalt roads, let alone maintain a local railroad. By the way, this last 90 percent category is doomed. The exception is only railways that are separated from the main rail routes, perhaps about 10-15 km to some large industrial plant, which is usually supplied with raw materials. So this isn't really an observation, it'd be more of a finding. In Article 10 relating to a railway infrastructure management licence, a strange condition was found, in particular an undefined and indeterminate description of the conditions, which should meet the potential railway infrastructure manager in the process of obtaining a licence. So, in addition to the conditions that he is financially stable, that he has proven expertise, success in his work so far, since a licensed manager must have, quote, a good reputation. It is simply unlikely that the government is still not learning from its mistakes, unless this "good reputation" means perhaps a good party reputation. You in the following members, as through fog, explained that this actually refers to persons who are not convicted, punished, who are not being investigated in the matter of unconscious business, tax evasion, etc., etc. I have to say, this is really funny. How many have been wronged about this country, how many have dragged their hand into someone else's pocket, when it comes to privatisations in Serbia? By this definition, a good reputation could have been Nemanja Kolesar. Everyone knows what he's done with his buddies, with the Smederian Iron. Everyone knows about the affair with the puking cementar and Holcing, but by this law he has a good reputation. Did the gentleman who controlled the construction and reconstruction of almost all the major roads in Serbia, so-called The Nibens Group, currently in prison, which is why you have a serious problem, and thousands of pathways are facing disaster? So this definition of "good reputation" after these two examples is absolutely no guarantee. Article 15 deals with the issue of suspending public transport of passengers and goods due to lack of profitability. A little while ago, when I mentioned a member of the 6th and the local railways, I touched on the subject of incompetence. There is no better situation in regional directions either. 70% of these routes are inconclusive, especially when it comes to passenger transport and we're back to the beginning of the story. If the passenger does not know when he will take the train, when he will arrive at the destination, why half an hour or an hour's train slips 10km per hour along the tracks, that will be the outcome of the business in the Serbian Railways. Just take what the state of the railroad is. Just take a look at her and look at the web of amazing video clips about our railroad. Here, just one example. The composition of the train passes by the raised automatic ramp, and drivers are baptized and miracles. So it's only in Serbia. Of course, it's not your fault, but I'm telling you what you need to change. If it wasn't for electrical signals at the spring crossings, we could move back a century. Article 57 provides that in the event of a break-up of rail infrastructure traffic due to natural disasters, part of the obligation is to be transferred to local self-government, which should remove interference and provide assistance. This could have been meant for local rail traffic, but for lines of international rank it will hardly be feasible. The municipalities of that obligation and that they will not be able to fulfil, in financial terms or in terms of engagement of a larger scale operative. Imagine a rink where half the hill collapsed on the international line of Belgrade-Sofia. Like, floods or earthquakes. That's where the state needs to be engaged, that's where big funds are needed. What can the community do, except symbolically attend, not to say just a statue? Finally, I would like to comment on Chapter VII concerning the protection of railway infrastructure. The Law on Railway predicts, and the earlier one predicted a 25m wide infrastructure belt and a 50m wide protection belt. Now I'm asking you what you're going to do with the objects inside these belts, and for years, all this has been tolerated, it's been built, among other things, despite the legal ban? These objects exist, it's a fact. But now someone will come to you who gives money to modernise the Serbian railway, and someone will seek maximum respect for EU standards. In particular, they're in Paracino, e.g. There are old residential buildings along the international railway line. There are probably still similar examples in Serbia. For this problem, you'll have to find some kind of solution. The easiest thing to do is leave someone without a roof over their heads. In any case, we need to find the best solution in the interests of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59253	It was used 12 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, Mirko Chikiriz, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59254	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues have given an assessment of the situation in the Railways of Serbia, as they see it today. No matter what I'm doing, part of the ruling coalition with the SPO colleagues, I would agree with most of my judgments completely. It is certain that these few evaluations of our parliamentary group will not be something new and that, above all, every citizen of Serbia does not see daily what happens about rail traffic. Of course, it is an extremely poor state of infrastructure, that there are many unsecured crossings across railway lines, that frequent and large tragedies are precisely because of all these reasons, that there is a great lack of modern means and for the tow, that the state in that closed-off system has been separating large subsidies for years and that there seems to be insufficient control of how these money is being spent, and even a few significant judicial affairs show us that many have been exploited and they have been processed, but we do not seem to have many. It will take us a long time to become in that part of the modern system. A lot of money will be needed, a lot of goodwill and a lot of expertise. They mentioned colleagues today that rail traffic, regardless of whether it is passenger or freight, in developed countries and the EU, in Japan, and even in China, is such that trains develop speeds from 200 to 300 kilometers an hour, that there is absolute comfort, above all when transporting in passenger traffic, that conditions are extraordinary, and that we are in that part, least said in the 19th century. Is that what this government is responsible for? No, it's about the inherited condition. We see good intentions in many of the solutions proposed by this law. Will the problems in rail traffic solve only the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Railways Directorate? He won't. The entire rail traffic management system should make its full contribution to us starting to move from the dead spot. We had a promise in 1989, 1990, and then Serbia's President Slobodan Milosevic's promise to build high-speed railways, to be in that part of the modern European country, no matter what happened then in the modern world, no economic, no political, no other principles, we have already, instead of building a modern society and seeing how and in this part to improve the system, we have waged unnecessary and insane wars in which we have been through the worst. On behalf of SPPO MPs, counterpart Aleksandar Jugovic gave an assessment of the situation in railway traffic. In that part, as far as I'm concerned, there's not much to add or take away. If it is the intention, and it is, the legislator of the law that several railway undertakings and railway infrastructure managers appear, and that the procedure takes place in three phases, we think it's a good thing and it's not just a solution to this law, but that some countries in the environment have done so. There have also been positive signals and the European Commission in this regard, and we really need to prepare for this kind of competition of our railway. As far as I have information, by the end of the year there will be a lot of modern means of transport, and in the second phase, with neighbours, i.e. republics from the former Yugoslavia, this co-operation will take place on the basis of reciprocity, and what we as right-wing workers expect with impatience, this is the third phase in which only the basis of free competition, on the basis of competition and quality, will be able to manage and make a living in rail traffic. This is what is the principle of a competition, a system in which there are no state subsidies and large thieves, but in this is the quality of knowledge and responsibility that wins and wins and collects income. Because of the many good solutions that this law provides, along with our fence, that really because of the very difficult state of rail traffic, not to you ministers, or to anyone from the government, but to this system that is a typical outdated communist closed system, we know what the problems are, etc. Of course, we'll also follow the sublegal acts of the Railways Directorate. We look forward to the safety law in the rail traffic that we, I think, need in the same package, to go with this law, to have a round picture and to be able to see a completely clearly paved road, but since we have made a detailed analysis of this bill, because of the good intentions of the legislator of this bill, the MPs of the SPO will, along with all the fences, which I say, fully coincide with all those who criticise the situation today in rail traffic, we will support this legislative proposal in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59255	Six minutes and 35 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is a folk letter from Natasa Micic, followed by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59256	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all aware here that the least problem is to adopt regulations, the truth of regulations concerning market liberalisation and the introduction of the possibility that there are more carriers who also give greater authority. I would say, better responsibilities to the Directorate, both with regard to licences and with regard to the adoption of sublegal acts, are also provided for a national plan, etc. All that doesn't sound so bad, but the key problem is, and we're all aware, that this is actually about financing, or that the problem is in insufficient and irrational investment in infrastructure in general, and especially in railways. Here the question arises, why road traffic has a privilege compared to railways, not only in relation to the funds invested but also to look at the current minister and previous ministers, they have always been more involved in roadways, I guess it's easier to make a road or some path, or change a section, than it is to do for railways. So, it's not just that we're talking about trains being slow, being abandoned, there's a bigger problem here. It's a clear thing, that nobody even mentioned that problem, that it's actually the biggest problem. I would say that Serbia's railways are, in fact, the most visible, the most obvious picture of Serbia's state, and that's both the lagging and neglect and the fact that our trains are going 45km per hour and that our compositions look like children's drawings, three, four cars. Remember how it used to be. A quarter of a century ago, when I used Serbia's railways, and I believe no MP is using today, imagine how far we've reached Užica in two and a half hours. Today, my daughter, a student who travels our railways takes at least three and a half hours, that's that express train. That best, most modern, normal train for that direction is a Montenegrin train. Then others wonder why Montenegro has achieved independence. We can talk about that too. This is about the law, about the independent business of the railroad. How independent business, when subsidies are 160m dinars, i.e. about 16 billion euros and they cover these budget subsidies cover 54% of all working costs of Serbia's Railways, plus European donations, plus NIP funds. I ask questions, of these subsidies, of these 16 billion euros, what do citizens have in terms of improving services, in terms of better transport? They've got nothing, so they're taking part in high subsidies to separate them, and in return they're getting nothing. I'd also mention that if it weren't for the fact that neither the Ministry nor the Government had enough information or had enough instructions and recommendations. You have gentlemen, enough to read, and I'm just wondering what happened to the 2009 World Bank's guide and recommendation, and it's literally on the railway, so it's one of the problems and too many employees. My colleague Đuric mentioned that the Slovak railway has 25% of employees compared to our railways and provides six times the transport of passengers. Here, the World Bank warns you, that this is not just about reducing the number of employees, which is also necessary, but also about reducing the surplus track and the concentration on those segments of the network where it is carried out most usefully. What have you done with it, gentlemen? We're back on track. So there are, to reduce non-profit travel traffic. What you did with it, it's from 2009 and today it's September 2011, what your ministry has done and what the results have been achieved, let's say in terms of these instructions and recommendations or you have better solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59257	The People's MP Milan Lapčević has the word, followed by the MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59258	Dearly respected Presidency, Mr. Minister, today in the afternoon debate we heard a lot about the state of the Serbian railway, about the state of our railway infrastructure, about the state of the public company "Serbian Railways" and about how and how this law should change this situation for the better. I suppose we are all in agreement with the assessment that today's state of rail infrastructure in our country is in a very bad state, much worse than perhaps all the other infrastructures, that what we did as a state 127 years ago, namely the Principality of Serbia under the leadership of Milan Obrenović, by releasing the Belgrade-Nish railway in 1884 and by achieving a speed of 45km per hour today, we cannot, unfortunately, boast that we have progressed either in terms of the speed of transport of passengers and goods on that, but not on any other part, nor on any significant progress in line with the development of railways at all in the world. In that sense, during the 127 years of the existence of Serbian railways, the infrastructure has grown to some 4,500km, but unfortunately only 30% of it is electrified and I'm not sure I'm going to say the exact percentage in which amount, or at which mileage of the track is even being trafficked. I think there's more traffic on the good side of the track and it's not running at all. Practically, they've been built and today they've grown into weeds. This is, of course, in line with the development of the railway and in line with the business of the public undertaking "Serb Railway", but also with the needs of society. It is likely that some of the needs of the company, i.e. the lack of economic resources and the need for more extensive transport of passengers and goods on certain shares, have conditioned that there is no rentability and need for transport on those railways and that, accordingly, traffic must either be reduced or abolished. About three, four months ago, a decision was announced to "Serb Railway" to completely abolish passenger traffic for several shares. In Serbia, it is mostly in southern and southeast Serbia from Nis towards Zajecar that completely abolished passenger train traffic, from Nis towards Kursumlia and Merdar, and for a long time there has been no passenger traffic, nor any rail traffic from the nis towards Krusevec, Stalac, Tristenik etc. to Požega, i.e. towards Montenegro, so after many years, many years we have come to the situation that those passengers who want to go to Montenegro, either on vacation or any other business, do not have a direct railway connection. On the other hand, the state of Serbia, as probably every state subsidises its public railway company, to do business, so that the company would do business, and that there would be at all rail traffic in the territory of the Serbian state, each year with hundreds and millions of euros, this year it seems to us the most in the last twenty years with some 160m euros, but a legitimate question arises – how does this money spent by our country's taxpayers in the railways of Serbia. We have not noticed that anything more significant has been restored in railway infrastructure, we have not noticed that in any sense, railways, or trains, furniture, so that those who justifiably criticise Serbia's railways seem to have too much dependent costs and that too many people are carrying out this work, is the answer to this question, where money is spent from subsidies, going towards the railways. We are fully clear and close to the provisions and concept that railway infrastructure, as well as all other infrastructures, should be overly or dominant in state ownership and that the state must have its own strategic interest there, according to this state will also assist a public undertaking dealing with this activity, but of course there must be certain criteria when it gives subsidies to Serbia's concrete railways. These criteria must be harmonised according to the number of subsidies received by other railways in Europe or beyond, so it must probably be determined which is the maximum limit of money to be donated to the company, according to the number of passengers transported, or according to the quantity of goods transported. 18 and a half thousand people can't work in Serbia's railways, and we have a minimum number of passengers transported, or that amount of transported goods that simply must pass there, because there's nowhere to go. If we had that accident if we weren't on this Corridor 10, the question would be what kind of condition it would be and how much interest it would be to transport certain goods to the railways. With the circumstances, we are on this Corridor, and because of these circumstances we have certain revenues, but not because the railways of Serbia, our railway infrastructure, the rolling infrastructure provides good services, so people transport goods or passengers, or because we are on the road, is simply the reason, and in the last 50 years in this context we can talk about the history of the modern railway of Serbia, there is not much that has been done, that neither the circular infrastructure nor the driving infrastructure is improved, and that is not the responsibility of the current government, nor the previous one, but simply one negligent relationship and the abandonment of the problem, or the release of the railways, we give them subsidies not to complain there, it goes as it goes, simply no one has dealt with this problem for many years. I remember and this was in some way an impression to me today, that twenty years ago, Minister Mrkonjic was in the role of CIP director, the company that deals with the projecting, among other infrastructures, railways, and that on several occasions, with the state leadership at the time, were promoted fast lines of Serbia, the construction of high-speed railways, the construction of these high-speed railways that took place from Belgrade to Jagodina, from Jagodina to Nis, from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, and I remember precisely one prospectus in which this phase construction was completed in 1996, and 17 years after that Mr Mr Mrkonjic, in the role of the minister, represents a law on railways where we can all agree that the state of infrastructure in Serbia, railway infrastructure and even of rail infrastructures was more than catastrophic and that there was no more importance of fast trains, where we could be. I mentioned earlier that in the decisions of the Steering Committee of "Serb Railways" and management, certain relations for passenger traffic were abolished, in the poorest parts of Serbia, the southeastern and southern Serbia towards Kursumlia and Zajecar, and the railway workers' union and the general public of that part of Serbia wrote certain requirements, protested, demanded that passenger traffic be returned, believing it was not fair and that it was wrong for all taxpayers to single out money that was subsidized by Serbia's railways, and that it was these poorest layers of population, the poorest part of Serbia that abolished this cheapest kind of transport. Since then, no response has been received from either the minister or the "Serb Railway", and in the plan and the purchases of passenger transport furniture have started, it was logical to separate several passenger furniture and to secure that passenger traffic in that part of Serbia, and there is nothing left for now, so I ask you as the ministry's competent authority to take up this problem. It is not normal for "Serb Railways" of 16 billion subsidies, not having a dozen or 20 million dinars to single out for the repair of these furniture that were trafficked in the area. It's not normal, and I heard that in response to why there's no passenger traffic. In the end, I'm going to ask you what's going on and when is it going to start to finally realize the shift of rail traffic from the center of the city of Nis? You know that rail traffic and freight and road passes through the city center, separates the city into two parts, in that part that passes through the city about four to five kilometers has more than twenty circular crossings where life has lost more than 150 people in the last 50 years. The new city's general urban plan is reportedly under the pressure of the state, defined that the railway line is not being moved from the city centre, but to apply a solution to deniveling the railway, i.e. to dig up a railway track seven meters below the ground, which is a fantastically large pre-account for such an investment that is certainly unreal, so I wonder how it is possible that the state of Serbia is in charge only in these four years of nearly five billion euros, and that it will not single out 40 billion euros for the construction of a bypass around the city of Nis and to move traffic, to ensure the safety of the people living there and to allow the city to develop normally. How will it provide a projected 500m euros to bury that track through the city of Nis? These are all questions that require a clear and precise answer, which do not suffer constant delays, because time passes, and things are not solved on the ground. As far as this law is concerned, it will not solve problems, much more energy is needed, a whole strategy is needed, which will clearly look at the needs of the Serbian state in rail transport and which will provide for how and which means to restore rail infrastructure, how it will be managed, who will manage the land now used by the public railways of Serbia, because I see in one member of the law, in Article 58 that those who operate the infrastructure, will give the last word whether something will be installed or not in the protective infrastructure belt. I'm not sure that's a good solution, but I'm not even sure that's a good solution as a state-owned resource given to someone for use, that you're giving them the opportunity to decide whether or not they're going to use it, because I think there may be a terrible problem, corruption, and I don't know what it's all about. As a parliamentary group, we cannot support such a law, because it will not bring new solutions, even in voting day, regardless of amendments, I expect that the minister will see these amendments and that in some way this legislative solution will be improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59259	I thank Mr. Lapčević. The word has Minister Mrkonjic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59260	As always, the analysis of the situation you know as well as the minister, nothing more than you know and you are absolutely in most, of course, only in one case, right. The state of the railway is catastrophic and therefore we are, and when this government came in 2008, and we were in 129th place by infrastructure in general and traffic at 123rd. Of course, the infrastructure is the worst because it hasn't been invested for these or those reasons in years. That's where I've been mentioning myself for at least the last 30 years, which is fine. Of course, Mr. Stamenkovic, he's not here, he assessed the positive law. Mr. Pastor's right about most things. His amendments are here, we've already looked at 65 of them. We'll see what we adopt. I am the Minister of the Republic of Serbia and there is a Republic of Serbia for me. Don't be angry, I'm sorry he's not here, he knows my opinion, but it won't be crucial, we'll see the real quality of those amendments. Mr. Bojan Djuric spoke very comprehensively to me surprisingly about the state of the railway, even in details and also, was an assessment of the state of good. We took Slovakia as an example, at least allow me to have enough knowledge from at least that area, Mr. Obradovic, in Austria is investing a billion and 500 million per year in railways, regardless of what kind of railway, in Croatia 300m euros, in Serbia 120, is still less. Of course, I don't agree that it should be, it shouldn't be investment, and that's exactly why we're passing the law, finally. We've been passing that law for 30 years, and you're right. Now we bring it in and divide the railways according to European standards and, in my opinion, leave Europe now, it should be. We separate infrastructure from passenger traffic, freight traffic and other activities, so that at least we have clean bills in the first phase. Now I answer to all the MPs who have spoken about it, that's the essence of having a clean bill. I'll tell you what it means right now. If we have 12.5 billion, as far as we're saying today, subsidies, and we're dividing traffic into these four operations, we'll know that, because we're going to have contracts, the state is going to have a contract with a company that's doing passenger traffic and infrastructure, how much is the cost, it's not going to transfer it to freight traffic, which we all know already, contributes the most and brings back those other 12.5 billion. In my opinion, that's good. That's exactly what we were doing, the answer to Mrs. Natasa Micic, these three years, reformed the railway or at least brought an act of change, and that's what most of the ministers who are sitting, now Shami is just here, knows Obradovic, who is sick of getting an act for the railway, that what I'm talking about now be adopted with all the unions, the workers, so that no one gets out of work and everything that any government, no matter who did it, would do. George Milicevic, I don't want to comment. I've already started to comment on Zoran. A sharp general assessment of my friend professor. The Railway Directorate stays the same. So we don't make any new people and new businesses. It's a directorate that exists, but it gets more authority. Professor Shami is afraid, as I understand it, that it will be... I don't see why, I have to break it a little bit more, the law sucks. The law creates a framework condition so we can change something. Of course, not all of these elements can be legal. The fear of engineer Obradovic, also my friend, that whoever delivers the operator, if we open up and say so – the market is open, who will bring the goods to take the money. Well, let him take it, but he'll bring the goods. Today, for example, truckers, these people who deal with transportation leave half a billion in Serbia in a transport that works. Let him bring the goods. That was the result of our deal. Someone mentioned it here. That's the result. Freight traffic brings revenue to bigger, biggest railways. I don't know anywhere in the world that passenger traffic doesn't bring it. Everywhere, with all those speeds you were talking about, are mostly marketing moves, the passenger is driving to transport by rail tomorrow what is... The problem with us is that, unfortunately, millions of materials and cargo that we're supposed to be driving by rail, we're not driving by rail, we're driving by trucks. I think that the same was said by Zoran Shami or Nikola Savic, there is no excuse and absolutely says that I or the Government of the Republic of Serbia is now in a position to be more involved in road traffic than in railways. That's not true. To be clear, most of the Corridor 10 was completed, most of us were able to realize right away, with the railroad we're a little more careful. As you know, no matter how much my friend Lapcevic is going to criticise me, I continue to argue, we have a document for 17 years that Serbia must have a two-track master track by 2020. Today we don't have it where you're talking, from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, where whoever in Texas said it the third time in parliament, on that track, trains from 160 to more and there must be electricity all over the length, and it can be for mixed traffic. It doesn't have to be the third track to take the fast trains, these engineers know it well. That's what we have to do. All those documents were signed... The last one was signed by Mr. Vuk Draskovic. It's our duty, and it has to. We made some kind of project, some plan that by 2017, we could do with what investments are, what I'm talking about, 4.5 billion. She spoke very nicely to her colleague, Maria. That's a great girl talking. It is a greater developmental opportunity for Serbia than for the travel economy, because we are doing business here and for our businesses. It is essential and it must, regardless, be declared that I am a mirage, etc., please, the highway must have these elements by 2017, regardless of who will be in power and how. Money, it's a nice question. I would ask Mr. Shami to correct me and these other people who communicate with Europe, the European Bank and the World Bank that gives the most favourable loans right now are asking us to get into the modernization of the freeway as soon as possible. So there's the cheapest money. In my knowledge, it's the Ministry of Finance, we're not a debt-indebted country yet, we should take these loans, because one of the debaters is lying to people about what I said today, read "Blic" and see. These are the credits that are most favourable and we should take it and build a railroad. Everyone built railroads and roads across Europe like that. When we talk about it, we need to know that Croatia has also invested 14 billion euros in its highways, as many as there are now, 750 kilometers to have it. What is also important to me, this is what Stefan Zankov said, is not there, one project of Corridor 10 travel and another project, railway Corridor 10 are two innovative projects, Mr. Shami, because the degree of profitability is 16.17% in them. So these two projects bring back the money they've invested in. On the highway we will invest a billion and a half, and by increasing the net foreign exchange inflow on the basis of transport, or passing through our country, we will return half or 100% more money than today. We're taking 150 million today. It's the same on the track, someone said it nice here. We're going to increase to 150 million, and there it is, these two projects are coming back. Of course, what's most important is there's opportunities to hire our economy. It's an axiom today and in the whole world, so be it with us. Miss Maria spoke, politicians mostly like planes or cars, but in this case it's not. Corridor 10 Railways are only preparing more thoroughly and we must be prepared for it to be realized. Mr. Bajram is right. I knew he'd ask, the general project for the Raška-Novi Pazar railway is here, he's not here. He's here. I'm sorry I can't show him. I'll try to install that into next year's budget project, but that 20km track costs 40m euros. We need to be aware of that, and we need to know that. Radeta Obradovica has already been partially commented on. Srdjan Milivojevic mostly spoke excellently. All these amendments are here. Radisa Ilic is right about most things. All these amendments you've written will be discussed, and we'll see. Mirko Chikiriz, too. I don't know why he agrees with his colleague, I don't understand it, but in the part where the program is talked about, I agree. Mrs. Natasa Micic, here's what they did. I just answered, Mrs. Natasha, based on those recommendations from 2009. First, at last, we have prepared this remonting, or restructuring of the railway company, we have implemented it slowly, step by step, we are passing laws and we are entering into the realisation of this programme. In the end, one first-row anonymous, that man I didn't realize. He is in the domain of my friend Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, let her interpret his discussion. But as far as everyone else is concerned, I'm grateful and I want this kind of discussion to improve this law and that when we speak in detail, you're even more specific about me. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59261	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament will be working today and after 18,00 hours to complete this item of the agenda in accordance with Articles 90 and 87 of our Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Shami, from the site: Replica. There is no basis for replication. These were the answers to your questions. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59262	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, the development strategy, i.e. the vision for 2015, drew in itself that the Republic of Serbia has a strategic position on the rail market in Southeast Europe, that the railways represent an efficient and environmentally acceptable transport system, well-organised, market-oriented. The rail transport system directs capacity towards demand, meets all requirements of the internal international market. On Corridor 10, Belgrade-Bar and Belgrade-Vrsac, which represent the backbone of the Republika Srpska railway infrastructure network, as well as a well-organised secondary line system, are used modern traffic models. Greater urban settlements in the Republic of Serbia and in neighbouring countries are connected with fast, quality, safe and accurate passenger cars that traffic at enough daily frequency. The railway is integrated wherever rational and possible in public urban transport of passengers with a single tariff. A Belgrade railway node with a passing main passenger station has become a significant transport node between the west-east and north-South of Europe. The railway in the Republic of Serbia is a reliable partner in the European logistics system. Unfortunately, by 2015, and there's not much time left, but the difference between the actual state and this visionary one, we'll all agree, huge. Generally, the following assessments can be given for the degree of development and state of the Serbian traffic system. Thus, it is not fully adapted to the needs of the economy and the population. The domestic technique, technology and management are not at the necessary level, the traffic network is not fully built and on some shares does not provide an adequate level of service provided for the early traffic. Not enough advantages have been used to function in certain modes of transport. There are no planning documents, studies, projects, etc., which is extremely important. Railway traffic is in poor condition, especially infrastructure and vehicles. All of these are the consequences of long-term monopoly in Serbia's rail system, so the low quality of transport services, heavy duties and business losses, incompetence on the transport market, inability to open the railway market for foreign operators, etc. He is late for reforming, defining public service obligations, conditions for opening the market, and for the paradox to be higher, a study on rail characteristics in relations has shown a significant advantage over road traffic. Then, numerous advantages of rail transport, such as low variable transport costs, low environmental pollution, potential mass transport and the like, require that adequate management activities be found and implemented to improve the state of the rail system. Unfortunately, out of the total revenue of half today, revenues from the transport of goods and passengers are all other subsidies. According to the latest data, we could hear this today, half a network of railways is not allowed for higher train speeds of 44 kilometers per passenger, or 24 kilometers per hour for freight. What are the losses? Unfortunately, I say again, in a slow turn of freight wagons, all those foams that are paid to foreign freight forwarders. It is alarming that due to the obsolescence, poor maintenance, the number of vehicles declines, in accounting records and the data is that there are around 9,500 freight wagons. However, only a little more than a third are used. The rest of them were exposed to further decay. What was done in the restructuring of the railway, or what was to be done, among other things? The most important segment is, of course, this financial recovery, i.e. providing stable sources of financing for the reconstruction and development of the railways of Serbia, the liberalisation of transport, etc. The organisational separation of transport from infrastructure has turned, unfortunately, into an empty letter on paper. We will all agree that the rail base is extremely important for Serbia, especially when considering the structure of the economy, mass production and exports of semi-fabricated materials, raw materials, steel, copper, aluminium, cement, chalk, rock, etc., as well as imports of raw materials, then production and export of cereals. The whole story somehow revolves around Corridor 10, where with all the announced investments, as well as investments for the reconstruction of the Belgrade knot, the purchase of locomotives and wagons are just something that needs to be realised, but unfortunately, the present one is different. It is particularly interesting that Corridor 10 will obviously serve foreign operators, and that one domestically, unfortunately, will disappear because he is not ready to deal with competition. What is needed, first of all, as a prerequisite for the launch of some kind of measure? This is, of course, the financial consolidation and the first and most important relationship is the change in the state's attitude towards the railways, in terms of professionalising the management of the responsibility of the selected management for the results of the work, etc. It should be from a closed technical system to an entirely modern corporation, turned to the country and abroad transport services market, with a new business spirit to convert what the Railway of Serbia is today. When we mentioned the money earlier, you knew the SRS' position. I have to do it again. All these loans both for Corridor 10 and for the purchase of freight wagons and other loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are, among other things, conditional on co-operation with the IMF, and I think it is practically the largest part of the citizens and the public that arrangements with the IMF are only due to the failure of economic policy, especially in the previous period. It was mentioned today in China and Russia. Here's a piece of information that's probably unknown to some people. For example, China has provided a very favourable loan to Turkish railways for the construction of a fast track in Istanbul-Ankara, about five billion of the total sum of seven billion dollars, built in record time the railway to Lasse in Tibet, a railway crossing the mountain range of 5,200m, etc. The government made a decision on 26 May 2011 to turn the Public Undertaking of Serbia into a closed stock company, and this could be one step towards a promotion, or step towards the reform that we are awaiting for apparently two decades. What is covered by this draft law on railways in principle concerns some increase in the powers of the Railways Directorate, which will in future be able to pass these sublegal acts which are important for the safe and smooth operation of rail traffic. With all this in mind, especially this gap between the real state on the ground and what was presented as some kind of vision, it's obvious that it's high time to start the engines, because if we continue with this kind of policy, obviously dogs will stop barking, because trains will no longer be passing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59263	Thank you. At 15.00 hours we continue to work and the word will be Dobrislav Prelic. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. People's MP Dobrislav Prelic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59265	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the only one I can speak to is you, since my colleagues from the SRS and you, the hall is empty. He doesn't have a minister, he doesn't have an MP. At the beginning of my presentation, I intended to address First Minister Mrkonjic, reminding him that usually every presence of him in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would be sufficiently and observant, and I must say that he often participates in the work of the National Assembly. By contrast, today was so pale and very scrupulous in its opening statement, unspoken, so I think he is absolutely aware that this law will not bring anything new and nothing good, first of all, to our railways, because we have had a law that has been in force for five years, where we certainly testify that, year after year, our railway was in an increasingly difficult and difficult situation, when it comes to infrastructure, when it comes to the business of the public enterprise itself, we have to realize that the public undertaking of Serbia is a great waste of the railway company, that the subsidies it receives every year. Right now, let me say the SRS has nothing against subsidies, but we're interested in how these subsidies are spent and whether they're invested where they should be invested and whether they'll have their own justification? What the minister said in his explanation, normally, he called for various orders, as I would say, from the EU, from the European Commission, to various directives. We've had a lot of laws here under the orders of the EU and the directive that this government has to implement. He simply has a warrant to adopt laws whether these laws will bring something better to our citizens or not. It is certainly a fact that in passenger and freight traffic, when it comes to railways, there are very big problems. The problems are even multiple. First of all, I think of a reduced number of passengers, a reduction in the number of departures of trains. It even happens that in some areas passengers come and the lines are simply canceled, and people can't travel where they imagine. Why is that? I think one of the reasons for this situation in the railroad in the last 10 years since the DOS came to power, when literally all our businesses have been destroyed for the past 10 years. Certainly, our citizens remember that our trains were once crowded, that they were compositions of 10 cars, full of workers who went from smaller middles to cities, say, to Novi Sad, and now they're one or two cars, as counterpart Pastor called them "silver arrows", I'd rather say they were "silver snails". A slightly better athlete can, say, run out to Gydobra and run to Futoga and jump back on the train and get to Novi Sad. Such a bad situation is also in freight traffic, so rail transport has created a poor and irresponsible carrier, whenever passengers are concerned, whenever the freight traffic is concerned. What should certainly be said is that this ministry has been trying, or public enterprise, to revitalise some railways. Even some protocols have been made. I would remind you, Minister, and I think you know that a protocol has been made to revitalize the railroad from Backa Topola through Somboro, Bogojev to Novi Sad. But absolutely nothing has been done, not even a step has moved. I have to tell you that that was one of last year's pre-election promises in January, where over two billion protocols you signed, deceived citizens in our community. I've had correct conversations with you. I hope you can explain this, Mr. Secretary. I'll remind you of a few more things. You said you'd be working, and urgently, on the bypass around Odjak. We are one of the few cities in Serbia where heavy cargo traffic passes through the centre of Odjak. I don't think it's a big investment, especially for your ministry, and it would mean a lot, first of all, because of the crossing of God. Also, you promised to advocate that the road of Gracac – Kruscic enters the public company's 2011 Public Enterprise Roads, as it is of paramount importance since it is also there. I must also mention God as port. If the categorization was done and that path went regionally, it would certainly have its own justification. As for investment in railways, in infrastructure, I must say that we have submitted one initiative when it comes to a railway bridge at the Bogoje border crossing. You remember that NATO villains bombed him in 1999 and that thanks to the SRS and our initiative at the time, and I must say and understand the ministry, that the bridge was restored. Once in these four years, transport across that bridge was achieved, and that is when our domestic tycoon had an interest in importing an expert from Kutina. I think it's absolutely untapped and that we should definitely work on it. How long it takes to remount and reconstruct our infrastructure, and I have to tell you, there are a lot of tracks that are literally not used and closed. Some don't even exist physically. When you want to do something, you have to get consent from the public company "The Railways of Serbia". I have to tell you, it's going really hard. I just can't believe that even where there's no railroad, you can't get consent. We're currently being gassed. In three places, it should be dug under the passageway. We simply cannot come across good will and understanding, and the works stand. No matter what we think gasification should be done in every place, we've been against this gasification because they have to be seen, above all, economic interests and whether something has an economic justification. A survey was also made, and that's what I told you last time, that only 3% of the citizens would join. Eleven million investments without procurement, I think it's a shame and a shame. When the Anti-Corruption Agency and our audit institution encounters abuses of budget spending, why else would public enterprises behave differently, when this government does not set an example, when it is corrupt and only works on a warrant from the West, not thinking about its citizens. I think this government also reminds us of our railroad, that the machine is falling apart and is ready for the general. The cars are very bad, and that the ruling majority, or DS, has one rotten wagon behind it that pulls, which is SNS. We have had the opportunity to see these days, when certain data are published, when it is done by Wikiliks and to see that Miki Rakic is behind it on the orders of Boris Tadic. I think it's absolutely clear to the citizens what he did to "the duke of words" and this traitor, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59266	Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59267	I'm going to answer Mr. Prelic immediately as his debtor. Krusic has entered the program. Have you checked that out? I'm not, I admit it. Krusic's in the program. The circle road is not a problem. First thing tomorrow, send a memo to me, personally to the ministry, and it will enter the budget rebalance program for September. Wagons, I didn't want to comment much earlier, but we have today, and that's the answer to all the MPs who asked that question, the 12 trains that we ordered from Russia and that come one by one, two have already arrived, 26 diesel trains that also come in the next year. It'll be part of a 800 million loan from a Russian loan, for those who don't believe it. We also have 25 electric trains from the European Bank's loan and 25 locomotives. That's what we have agreed today, ordered, and we expect a delivery every day. That's more than twice what we have today. For all MPs to know, today we have 85 passenger cars in a state where, as you know better than me, they are. We have 65 locomotives today, 20 of which are in ruins every day. Today we have 10 diesel trains, no more. It can't be enough for all of Serbia. So, I expect by the end of the year that rolling stock will be improved by a double bar. Of course, that's the answer to Mr. Pastor, who's not here, that part of those trains will go up north, part in Serbia, part in Zajecar, etc. So this condition will certainly be drastically changed. It's one of the jobs we've been doing these two years, preparing for the realization of such projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59268	Thank you. Mr. Flea, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59269	Mr. Minister, I'm sure the 2011 project didn't enter the Public Enterprise of Serbia, and now I'm going to tell you why. Because the municipality of Ojaci has done the project for its part of the road, and Mr. Bukvic, president of the Municipality of Kula, of the DS, has not done the project. That's the reason. Our project was twice as expensive and bigger and we did. But we simply didn't come across an understanding from a neighboring community, which I simply can't believe, but it's true. Speaking of these wagons, I think that these 16 billion subsidies could be used far more wisely, above all, to restore the railway from Belgrade or Novi Sad to Moscow, all in your power to do is to have our farmers export their agricultural products there, because it will certainly go better than to be blackmailed by the EU and what they are doing now with our agriculture and bring it down. It will certainly be far more profitable and make sure that it has its economic justification and that the Public Undertaking of Serbia's Railways will be far better off. When I was talking about this one rotten car, healthy cars with Serbian radicals are heading towards Moscow, and this rotten car with Tomislav Nikolic, who is being dumped by DS and using it as a syringe, it's all written here, and that's their mentors from the West, U.S.A., and that's certainly true, it's reality and reality. Run, citizens of Serbia, both from the DS and from this treasonous option, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59270	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, you saw today discussions of MPs regarding both the position and the opposition, and the normal and discussion and answers by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that it is a catastrophic situation in the railways. If we look at it, you've all actually explained yourself or discussed the problems, the consequences, and certainly not the causes that are present today or that have already been present for 30 years. You know, for the past 30 years, we've heard here from one MP from the post, who says the biggest problem is the presence or placement of personnel in the railways politically similar, in fact unprofessional people. Then he analyzed, but he forgot to analyse that in a public company, today JAT, the biggest consequences of being set up by SPO and DSS personnel were that the biggest problems had arisen there. Also, we can say number two is crime and corruption. In every public enterprise, this crime and corruption is so present that we don't have to talk, to explain how much money was stolen, as much as it was abused, that today it wouldn't be necessary to take credits, whether from the IMF or any other bank, but only to return what they stole would be enough to revitalise, both infrastructure and equipment on the railway. Unfortunately, since the judiciary, as it all works, it doesn't seem to happen in this country. We can also say what another major cause is, and that is criminal privatisation today in Serbia. This morning, you saw, an MP arrived, unfortunately, Mr Vlahovic, who was the first privatisation minister in Serbia, who has so badly destroyed the economy and economy that we should not talk about it anymore, but also the sparrows on the border say what it is and how this privatisation was done in Serbia. As soon as the economy was gone, as soon as the production was gone, the railway had to be destroyed. That's what I'm talking about as a man who's worked for 30 years in the economy. I'm talking about the Zorca chemical industry in Capac, where the Zorka factory had its own locomotives and its own cars. Today, I have to tell you, they're cut off, it doesn't exist anymore. There was a big transport company in the Zorca chemical industry in Šapec, not to speak any further. If you look and enter a train station, you have, I don't know how and in what way to explain it to you or to show you what that hole is like today where it's supposed to deal with the transport of passengers or the transport of goods. Do you know why they serve these train stations? They're used because they're cut for waste, for secondary raw materials, there's certain locomotives, cars, and I don't want to say anything anymore. So, it's present today, I'm talking about a train station in Capco, and I'm traveling and I can see it's everywhere. We can also notice, when you enter anywhere, in a village or anywhere, in smaller and larger towns, as well as in cities, you will immediately notice a large building that is destroyed, which is a school. Also where rail nodes are you can see how and how this train station, or its infrastructure, looks like. Mr. Minister, you say, I support you here, it's okay to raise these loans, and the loans that will be needed to revitalise the entire infrastructure section related to the railroad will be raised. But I'm asking you, when these loans come, what makes these credits abuse or money go to another side, and one minute goes to the Railways, or just to make it public? At a seminar, which was 11, 12, 13 and 14 in Brussels, where I was personally present with a delegation, where it was meant to be established and to reach a certain conclusion regarding this Southeast regional transport co-operation, but I must tell you – where do we see ourselves in this Southeast transport co-operation with any country in the environment? We can't see. Look, this is a failed house that can't revitalize. That's one problem. I would agree with you if we had tomorrow's chance and could do it. You know how, I say, we get credits, people will grant credits, but these credits will go to solve social cases, that's to keep social peace, so they'll go on to the pension fund, anywhere or in some way, the worst, that someone will take that money individually, who has access to that money. That's the big problem. I must tell you, 35 years ago as a student, I visited Gossa in Smederjevska Palanca, which was a car manufacturer. Later, as a man in the economy, I visited the Car Factory in the King. It was one big example of Serbia, it was one big climb. At that time, there was a business related to the railroad. So we were doing cars for European countries. I ask you, can Serbia do it today? He can't. We have brains, but we don't have those common senses, organizational brains to come back and make it again. We can't import everything, because you have to pay good money. Do you know who imports? Import the only one who'll benefit from that import tomorrow, so he can put money in his pocket. That's the problem. By the way, these professional people of ours, I saw them at the London Institute, where our people deal with the construction of the most modern transport cars. Are we thinking of bringing these people back to our country? We're thinking, but how, in this failed economy, on these legs today, where is the entire political and economic elite of the country? We can't. We must honestly tell you, I'm disappointed, we lie to ourselves with these laws, we pass certain laws, and when will these laws find their own implementation? Never, just the designs to bring them in, let's say -- that's what the government did. I'd be happy if it were positive and I wasn't right, but unfortunately I'll be right, and you won't be right, to be abused as a man, as a person, and so many times you've put your cheek on the line for some others, but you know well who you've put it all on. Here we hear - history. It's the same history as the railroad, but from history, we can't live today. We have to watch what we do next. You have heard from many MPs that railways so say no longer exist. When I was going into the army, you know, we all took the railroad, the chira drove me from Capljina to Trebinj, back in the '70s. I'm asking you, what is it today, is there a Kira today? You say the locomotives should arrive. When are those locomotives supposed to come? Where are those locomotives and those wagons going to go after Serbia? One of the cheapest transports today is rail and water system. We're all here today in one difficult situation. For what? For selling cheeks. A short while ago, counterpart Prelic spoke of a traitorous political party, which sold itself. We know well that Mr Tomislav Nikolic's and Alexander Vukic's suits are worth as much as a hectare of masculine land. I'm asking you, I'm probably supposed to go on psychiatric surveillance, and I'm taking the same salary with you, I'm processing 20 acres of land, I'm doing all the things none of you would do on a farm, and I'm taking a flat on one positive zero. I'm asking you, how did some ministers get so much capital, so many apartments? They didn't earn it honestly, and they didn't earn it honestly. That's the problem today. We wonder how some ministers came from their aunt's bed and so much capital, so many houses. I wonder how today? Now I'm going to read to you, I'm going to finish with that, telegram number 08 Belgrade, 1072, since 16 October 2016, 16.51 hours, signed by Manter, for official use only. "There are also signs that the SNS has received access to French funds to support the party. According to well-positioned and reliable journalist, Serbian tycoons Miroslav Miskovic and Milan Beko pay SNS well. Other observers and diplomats claim Nikolic is being supported by French donors and is currently negotiating with a German party's foundation on the aid package. " (President: I'm going to focus a little on the content of the law. I'm done. It's the Wikilix published, it's what destroys us, it's what destroys us today, but it destroys the brightest face of today, and it's a Serbian peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59272	National MP Milan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59273	Dear People's MPs, representatives of the government, we have before us the railway law. The 2005 law and, according to the reasoning of this law, the shortcomings that should be removed have been observed in the current application. It is inevitable to comply with EU directives, which says there is nothing we can do alone until someone on the side tells us. This law also needs to be in line with the draft law on safety of rail traffic, but we do not have that draft, and it was logical that those two laws go in the package because they are connected. Namely, this gives authority to the Railway Directorate for the adoption of sublegal regulations necessary for the safe and smooth operation of rail traffic. The question arises whether and how many professional public, employees of JP "The Railways of Serbia" and other interested parties participated in the drafting of this law? As much as I have information, in the Railways, a few of them are familiar or don't even know a bit about this new law. The situation in "Serb Railways" is alarming and has been caused by years of problems and inadequate policy and the status of this traffic company in both the state and society. In Serbian railways, it has not been seriously invested in decades, and the conditions of expansion have seriously violated the system. At the same time, the financial indifference of Serbian railways will contribute drastically to the business and financial position of a large part of the Serbian economy. Namely, Serbian railways have business relations with more than 2,000 domestic companies and tens of thousands of employees in Serbia are directly or indirectly linked to the operation of the railway. The improvement of the situation in which railways are located today is the possibility of a business recovery of a significant part of domestic economy, a large part of the metal complex, as well as a hundred smaller cooperatives and entrepreneurs across Serbia. On functional modernisation projects, a largely domestic economy that has so far been lying in the provision of services to railway transport can be engaged. Those companies will otherwise lose that influence. Serbia has a network of rails of about 3,800km long, it is 7% two-way. Interestingly, electricity only covers 32%. The base of the network represents Corridor 10 by 890 kilometers. The rail network is sufficient capacity but the technical exploitation performances are not adequate for the provision of quality services. The tracks are 40 years old with a high degree of permanence and low allowed speed of movement. Trains on half of Serbian railways due to stationary infrastructure traffic at a speed of less than 60km and only 95km of trackways across our country can travel at a speed of over 100km. The commercial speed of passenger vehicles is 43 and cargo is 24 kilometers per hour. Due to this state of infrastructure, "Serb Railways" are forced to run the so-called "Serb Railways". Slow driving at a speed of 10 to 30 kilometers to reduce and preserve traffic safety. I can tell you if you're driving by train, I've experienced that from Rakovica to the train station travels for 40 minutes, passengers who are not loaded with luggage exits to Rakovica and now in trams or other public transport to get to Belgrade as soon as possible. Just to resuscitate a 580km track with a light driving order, it takes about 150m euros. In Serbia, only 17km of railways are being remounted and about 190km is needed. The age structure of the vehicles is very unfavourable, over 30 years old, we are 60% of the tow cars and passenger cars as well as 40% of the freight wagons. Travel cars on Serbian railways have long worked their working age, and their average age is over 28 years. This affects a large number of cars out of traffic that are often technically incorrect and high maintenance costs. Serbian repairers, meanwhile, were brought in, whether by bad privatisation or otherwise in a difficult situation, which caused damage, caused a problem for the railways. When it comes to goods traffic, the situation isn't any better. Serbian railways are required to transport about 5,000 freight wagons, with a lack of railway means losing millions of funds. Usually, about 30 to 45% of the available means of transport depend on the structure. Serbia's railways have since 2000 fired here, reduced the number of employees by 15,000 and are now running about 19,000. These 19,000 workers are justifiably dissatisfied with their social status and are terrified every day of their jobs. It is necessary to increase investment in rail transport infrastructure in order to bring the country's development level and train safe transport of goods and passengers. Improved transport increases investment levels, improves trade, revives the metal and machine industry, thus opening new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59274	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59275	Excuse me, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59276	Nineteen and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to start something that you said in one of your presentations today, which is, you listed numbers and states around us in an environment that is and how much they have invested in the railways. My question to you, and who told us to invest more in the railroad? Who defended us, I'll ask in the '90s, and especially after 2000, who forbade us to invest in the railroad? No one defended us, no political brains, no economic brains, and no national awareness and responsibility to the state. You're one of the ministers who succeeds, whether you do it tend to do it or not, I don't know, but you manage to agree with the opposition, that things, let's say in the rail transport sector, are no good. We agree from the opposition, from the Serbian Radical Party and you agree, but my logical question arises, and what does Serbia have from you and we agree on this, which you and we agree on, and yet in the government there is still not enough sense to take something and change after ten years. That's just it. So it remains to fly in the air and what the Serbian Radical Party is telling you, Mr. Minister, not only to you, but to your government-based gentlemen, it is time for Serbia to stop lying. Serbia's right to lie and deceive at least those who write laws to it and send them to the Assembly for adoption and Serbia, or those who sit in the government must stop being deceived. For all the problems we agreed on, both you and I from the Serbian Radical Party, this is not the answer and you know it well, so you read the explanation because you don't believe this can bring the right things. You didn't even want to defend the law so you could or should defend it because you know this paper won't bring back what Serbia really needs. And that is why we agreed on what Serbia needs when it comes to railways. Two or three of you sat here and the SRS told you, we need ten billion dollars and a new ten years that these have wasted and stolen from us since 2000. For the SRS, the attitude towards rail traffic is the attitude towards modernising a state. Modernising the country's own railways and friendly states in the world have been used as an answer and to counter the economic crisis. So, this hell of economics that we're all going through, we're mostly for the government, and then for the environment. They used investment and investment in railway infrastructure, in rail traffic, in rail transport to defend themselves from these problems. What did we do? We ministers opted for a variety of measures of state intervention and subvening, and the tycoon coins were poured over into their accounts because they controlled the government, with these money paid for political mutants, as Wikiliks writes like Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic and similar and the state came into hopelessness today. Where do we go and what do we do? We're going to moan over ourselves because we missed another decade of things in the most important traffic sector right now for Serbia moving one step forward. You just commented on something about passenger traffic and transportation. I wouldn't underestimate it at all, Mr. Minister, in rail passenger traffic, and here's why. Smart and responsible countries such as friendly China have questioned their own air traffic due to the rapid development of the railway. You know how? By crossing thousands and 100 kilometers in three-and-a-half hours and at the same distance, carrying three times the number of passengers over planes. It's a serious country. What it says here, this is applicable in Germany, this is applicable in France, this is applicable in South Korea or Japan. In Serbia, in which the government has rooted railways for the last ten years, this is as much worth the paper you throw in the trash can when you open the ice cream. I'm sorry, I'm not contesting anyone's work or effort, someone here said someone was writing this law. This is prescribed, because if someone wrote it, it doesn't matter, the problem is it's overwritten and it's not appropriate and consistent with the conditions and needs of this country. I have an interest in talking and talking about this because I live in the district, four municipalities directly interested in railway Corridor 10, Vladic's Han, Vranje, Presevo and Bujanovac. You see, Ministers, if your unfortunate coalition partners had invested in the railway maybe the Ship's committees wouldn't have decided to boycott the list, maybe they wouldn't. Perhaps we would have lived a little differently, indirectly, because of the interested Shop, Bosilegrad, Surdulica from which I come, but simply ministers have no political brains and no political hearing. They don't care, and now they assure us, the government of the Republic of Serbia introduces market principles into rail traffic, and now the French operator whose train goes 200km per hour on average to come and transport goods and passengers to Serbia in which 2.8% of the railways can take more than 100km of speed. You know how ridiculous and pathetic that is? Why do I say in government, I don't want to amnest you either, why are you lying about this being a solution, why and why? The European directives you call upon when you talk about this law in 1991 gave you the basis to change things and the situation in the railways, from the legal form of the companies that will deal with this so that they introduce market principles into it. New directives were adopted in 2001 when coalition partners came to power and promised you honey and milk. Where are we today? They were unable, Minister, to cross the protection of the circulars across cities and municipalities. You know, what's it been 10 years for us when it comes to the railroad? In disputes between local and republican authorities, who is in charge of protecting the circular crossing. Am I right, Minister? They've eaten us for 10 years, now they're looking for a new mandate. You can't say anything, you respect the coalition deal, but you know it. We need to stop the ministers from lying to themselves and then the citizens who send us here and vote for us, they deserve something else, they deserve responsible policy, responsible political behavior, they deserve power to offer them something that the state can offer them, and it's not much to offer citizens not to travel 21 hours from Bar to Belgrade. You will agree in the 21st century that's not much, and then the government assures us that they introduce the principles of civil responsibility, whether any of them know what the principles of civil responsibility are in the rail transport sector. I will vote for this law, Minister. Which insurance company is ready to provide passengers on the Belgrade-Bar track. Here's a question, since these geniuses of government, for the principles of civil responsibility in traffic, let them tell us. Is someone ready to do some damage to those passengers that were traveling for 12 or 10 hours? Who's responsible for that? And those who are the most responsible for such a thing, be careful what they offer us, European directives, European standards, son, just this to be adopted and there's no problem everything's going to get up and I don't know how long and what. The SRS simply believes it is her mission to end this power and deception. We have 600 or 700 technical places on railway lines, that is, on that infrastructure. They do not satisfy even the elemental level of needs for which they have been created, let alone that they are compatible with country standards such as France, Germany, Japan etc. But that's what we need to talk about. Not only does it have to be talked about, Minister, but someone has to make it clear who's guilty and responsible for it. Well, you just said it, it's not invested, it's somebody's fault, someone's got to take responsibility politically, and if not materially. Not a bit of it characterized in a very ugly and unpleasant way by the railroad, JP Railway. You just said you did a big thing, you changed your legal form. Accounting data is catastrophic, who's to blame, and if it is, who's to blame, in what losses it's a public enterprise before it's been divided. Who is responsible for this, Serbia, citizens, the public and I as representatives of the SRS and my colleagues, we want to hear it, it is a job for you in the government, to protect the government, to protect the state, not to protect your own political positions and parties, to protect your public interests and to protect the state. That's how we understand the state and that's how we understand politics. So we would rule to sit where you are, but God will give us a chance one day, the elections get closer, but while you're where you are, try to behave differently from them. This policy you impose, the policies of the European directives, it is a sophisticated, pure abstraction for Serbia. Do you know what they're thinking about triple their income by a railroad employee? Do you know what that is for us? To triple the income per train employee, to cut 50% of SO2 emissions, air pressure, and how much, you tell me, you have diesel locomotives in that world? They are dissatisfied with their railway infrastructure, demand that it improve and save energy according to energy efficiency principles. Now imagine these principles of what is written in their basis of the law, we in Serbia are harmonising with it, and as the head of the sand we stuck, everything is great, everything is nice. It's just not like that. The SRS is obliged to tell the public that things don't work out that way. We wish it were different, and in 1991 we wrote a political programme, Vojislav Seselj wrote it, which asked that there was something in the railways that was not yet provided in Serbia today. You're talking about a very dangerous topic, how we're going into the restructuring of public enterprises, whether anyone knows about them is the strategy of restructuring public enterprises, what is the state's strategic, national interest, what the state cannot let into the private sector, and what, from security, from financial or any other aspects and talk about this law, because these are matters of general interest. If we can just write laws, then in three days, the property law will be passed again. Is that how they are introduced into public sector market principles? No, I don't. This is not how it is done, but this country has been swimming in chaos for 10 years and everything is possible, but it is important for the president to be a regional leader, he is the president of the citizens and the Western Balkans, everyone loves and supports him, that is, that is, our biggest problem in Serbia. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, what is still controversial here, never the authority of the Directorate could be a problem, and in the previous law, it was better to change things on the railway. We had a ministry, we had what was called the railway sector, there was space and technical capacity to write sublegal acts and all that, and what was the problem, to schedule an emergency session and to make a decision or any document that would allow adequate restructuring, not just railways, anything else. When something is wanted and when something is understood to be a national strategic interest, there can be no problem. How is it possible to write in the law, it says in one article, I think Article 16, that, now paraphrasing, things relating to safety in rail traffic will be defined in accordance with the law governing the safety of that law in the working version. We'll all be in the vacuum, and on the one hand, the problem, the authority of the directorate, there's no regulation, and here in law we'll write that something will regulate the regulations that are in the working version. The railway safety law, in the working version and it hasn't even come to the government, hasn't passed the government, let alone the Assembly. What's gonna be who's gonna be responsible if something happens in that vacuum, God forbid, but it's a picture and an opportunity of the government. This is the atmosphere in this sector that best outlines and paints a picture of the government that has been terrorizing Serbia for 10 years in the last, political years. Tom must stand in the way, Serbia must change the way. These European integrations, fantasies and so on, it no longer drinks water and the people won't listen anymore and it can't change our lives, Minister. Angela Merkel can't lift our average speed on the line from 40 to 100, we have to do it, but we need to love our own country and we know something, and that's enough. Serbia has resources, it has opportunities and it will return to us multiple times. It's policy of the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, not much philosophy. We love the state and we want to work. We're asking citizens for that support. To get support, they have to go with the government that's been up to 10 years now, to break up and we hope it happens in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59278	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59279	Dear Minister, in order not to repeat ourselves at the end of the debate, we have heard a lot about the railway, and we have all agreed that both you and the MPs of the opposition and MPs of the position that the railway in Serbia is in a very difficult state and it is not something new, in any case, we should ask the question of how in the time of promotion of general rationalisation and general energy efficiency, one such cheap transport loses the race with all others who are much more expensive, but that is one strategic issue, broadly, where the government would have to consider and bring a strategy in the longer term. The railway is, as you said, in Article 7 of the railway infrastructure is good in general use in the property of the Republic of Serbia and the management of railway infrastructure is a work of general interest. This general interest should guide us all, in good intentions for this legal text to be good, to really be as you said in your explanation, to be effective, because when you mention the word efficiency in relation to the railways, then we all feel a little grotesque, because if someone comes to the idea of traveling by rail as a passenger, then it must be admitted that they have an adventurous spirit. You never know when he'll arrive and very often you don't even know if he's going to go. Since I came from the city of Sombora, which has 145 years of rail and has been proud of it for a long time, it would be very interesting to see today what our railway station looks like, how the Somboro lines that led to the world, even in Europe, and when we had some local initiative to revitalize a railway line towards Hungary that existed for a long time and long connected us with some other countries, then we realized that the attempt to revitalize some rail route was just an attempt to transfuse you to resuscitate the Egyptian mummy. There's a lot of trouble on the railroad. Corruption and everything else is not the place to talk. We have a law that needs to be passed by emergency procedure. We expected it to still be a longer period of time, that the amendment could be more serious, but we as a parliamentary group have submitted amendments and we expect you as a minister to look at and accept those who really are in order to improve the legal text. There is an interesting problem that is not mentioned here, you know that the problem, and that is also the law, that is, in the accompanying text of the law mentions, the adoption of sublegal acts that actually enable the application of one law, and that was the problem with the previous law that was passed in 2005, so the question is, I think it's the Security Regulation 201, so a sublegal act that doesn't pass the legislation. Why has it been so long that this regulation that is very important, very important for this part of the infrastructure, or for rail traffic? If we look at examples in the environment, as countries refer to rail traffic, what you said really stands. No country in Europe, not even this rich country in Europe, has profit from rail passenger traffic, but they must protect it because in part of the infrastructure as one of the blood streams that holds Europe together, and that is what we must accept, and certainly also suggest, since this Russian loan is coming which is very important, that this part of rail traffic towards Russia, to think about it, is at least because it is one of the bright points not for that part of the infrastructure but for Serbia's agriculture. We know that our agricultural production and what our peasants produce on the market as food at this point only one Moscow can look for. We find one such market truly a well-intentioned market and really necessary. The railroad at this point must be with one vision, to see that interest as well. In order not to comment and repeat much, Mr Minister, we expect the amendments of the New Serbia parliamentary groups to be looked at and some of them adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59280	Thank you. Does anyone who hasn't used their right to the Rules of Procedure want a word? Yeah. ) The word wants MP Nikola Savic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within this time period that I have left as an authorised representative of the SRS on this agenda, I would like to point out some specific shortcomings in this law. First of all, these shortcomings relate to the fact that the law does not treat or mistreat some very important things. I'll do my best to make sure that a few of these things are listed here. One of those things is Rage Stations. We all know that the base stations are an inevitable factor in the railway infrastructure. As a result, I believe that the base stations should not be detached from the system and should not be allowed to be special continents because it can certainly lead to abuse, and in the end, the system as a whole will suffer because there can be major abuses. The other thing about what I'm about to say concerns the spring crossings. I think it's much more efficient for a legal solution to be such that in their own sense, all the rail crossings belong to the railways, not some republics, some economic entities, some units of local self-government, because the railways are being monitored and maintained anyway. When it comes to these road crossings, local self-governments themselves want to get rid of property, custody, or I don't know everything over these road crossings because it represents only ballast. Mr. Minister, you probably know that there are very frequent cases that these things lead to unnecessary court disputes whose fault was responsible for such a thing, so I think it would be much better if this matter had been settled by law. Some non-existent economic operators also had certain properties at the spring crossings. We have one such case in Nis, let's say, where the former plant "Electron Industry" has its own two road crossings, and we know what the factory is in right now, and that just makes things work. If you already intend to give someone the track for use, then you have to give that person, that economic operator all the necessary information and all the necessary parameters related to the track, in terms of how long the rail is, how long the train can move on a particular stock, how many miles per hour on a particular section of the road, how many railway crossings on the track, what condition the crossings are, what state all the other infrastructures are in. One more thing about traffic security, as far as security is concerned, I feel that the right to use and manage in this sense can only have those persons whose jurisdiction is exclusive, so it should also enter the law. Since I don't have much time to ask you, Mr. Minister, do you have any information as far as it came with known affairs on our railroad? You know, that's what all the presses, our domestic WikiLeaks, like this real WikiLeaks that we have the opportunity to see every day exposes the treasonous policies of Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59282	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59283	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I do not tend to report for further discussion and in fact this is more of a replica of what Mr. Minister was saying two hours ago. What I certainly want to point out, and what I was talking about when I was talking about, is that unlike the countries where the railway works long ago, and those countries in Europe and the world have a lot, a lot more and more serious countries, we have to answer the previous two questions. First, how to formulate the state interest in building Corridor 10 and all the insinuations that it's somebody against building Corridor 10, because of the public I have to say that not only are roads but also roads and railways, in this case I'm talking about railways, so that interest formulate and put the state's task that it has to work. It must have a place in one of these laws. I agree that it should not stand in the law of France, but in the law of Serbia it must. Secondly, how to prevent the process of abolishing the railways for economic reasons, which is understandable to someone on the one hand, but in cases where the state has no doubt an interest in maintaining some railways for some other state reasons? And it's not in this law. Only when these two questions are answered in one sentence, one member, with five or ten members, can we later discuss the solutions offered. Can you do better? Sure, there's plenty of places we can do better. Can we do this or can we do this? You, Mr. Minister, said you didn't understand the reasons why I, or the DSS, thought this law was wrong. I have to admit, you're a smart man and I don't think that's true. You understand these reasons very well. My report was in that direction to remind you that you understand these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59284	I thank and give my word to Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59285	First, I would like to thank Mrs. Zlati Djeric for the support she gave me. I didn't expect you to back me up, but that's the way it is. Now I'm going from behind, for these five people who were discussing after Mr. Peric. Of course, my friend Zoran Shami. I didn't say I didn't understand. I asked what to do today. I always ask you that, because I think everyone here who sits or doesn't sit is not there, but they're MPs, they lead this country forward. So, what do we do today? Let's make the law. I've always considered it and I've proven it through practice that it's not only important to have the law, it's important to respect it in the good part, in the part where it's not changing. So that's what I asked, but completely Professor Dr. Zoran Shami is right. So I've already given the order to the Secretary of State, these two positions you've already said will enter that law. Of course, we need to know what our development strategy is. We didn't know that, that's what I have to say. I don't want to insult anyone, and neither does my friend Shami, until 2008, did anyone know what Corridor 10 was? Not until I started talking about Corridor 10. Now everybody knows, and it's my biggest success, even if I'm being criticized, but that's how it is. We went to the train, now we're going to the train station. That's the point. This state must, not from government to government, make its development strategies, but make a strategy out of national development for the next 20 years or 50 years and say – any government that comes can only compete in the speed of implementation of these projects. That's the point. I'm afraid, I'm going to be honest, so one of the mayors pulled me out, so I made an allegation that I'd like another term. I don't like him because I'm interested in the function, but I'm afraid the next government doesn't say - stop Corridor, so let's go back to some other projects, because that's the experience we've had. I asked one of the leaders of the opposition today, since Dragan Stevanovic called me, he's not here, he was here today, why didn't you, when you had two billion euros in 2006, in October of the month, you had two billion in your account, why didn't you go into the road corridor and get the country's medal? He says he didn't have anyone to push. Unfortunately, it can't be a national development strategy, anything, even the traffic of a country, even if it is Serbia to depend on whether there is someone to push, with forgiveness, or not. It must be known, that both governments and parties are being respected politically in doing so, making their careers faster to finish the jobs they need to do. I give my word that what we agreed today, at least until we fall in the next six or seven months, I don't know when we're going to fall, that we're going to do it. So, radical comrades, that's right, you're right about many things, in the assessment of the situation, but you're wrong about the law being wrong. The law as it is is good. We will change it to the part where you made objections, but the law must exist not to the first law because of Europe, but to the right law because of the legislation of a state. Serbia must create conditions in Serbia as they are now in Europe, so that one day it can say – and we are Europe today. Serbia is asking for Europe to come here with all the bonuses Europe has. That's the point. There were no concrete remarks about the law, but to answer Milan Nikolic, a man put some things where they are. But for years, railways, here, for 30 years, I've been on the railways, and I'm certainly carrying a lot of those responsibilities as the director of the institute that ran these various projects, and I know how much trouble it was to convince various politicians, from another Tito, to another Tito, to Slobodan, don't mind me, they're both not alive, to get into the realisation of the railway. They were all airplanes, cars, etc., railways. But today Serbia must do what we are now saying, a plan, a national programme and a traffic development strategy. The railroad as it is has a great perspective, you said. The whole Corridor 10 railroads today are our enterprises, the machinery industry, from the north, the brotherhood. I don't know in the wild privatisation of how they went, but there's Gossa, the car factory King, who knows how to do that job, so why don't they do it? Give our territory to develop our businesses through the realisation of our projects that Europe is interested in. I continue to insist, two projects are extremely important for Europe, Corridor 10 travellers, Mary has come out, rail and road. We must look here for opportunities to develop our economy. Another very important thing, I would like to say to the MPs that it is by chance nothing and that we are not doing exactly as the radicals are criticising, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am here, because we are a single team, our country's gross national income is somewhere around 32, 33, 35 billion. You all know that. In order for the state to survive, there must be at least 10% of that in the investments, so three billion. Of that three billion, since I'm a pragmatic man, I always speak in numbers, billions and a half today we have infrastructure security. Another billion and a half will be provided, probably in greenfield investments and in the economy. And the guarantee that we can get past the crisis is there, but of course, we have to work. What is very important, the degree of our duty, at least according to what our bankers say, is not the overindebtedness of our country, but our duty. We still have the possibility that when we take credit for stealing and praying wherever you notice, in my ministry, and I'm going to be the director now, Corridor 10 travel, a little bit of a digression, let me at the end of this wonderful session to say, on Route 10, all the jobs are made in tenders. I remind some friends who forget about it, we live in capitalism today. I admit, as a socialist, that I was for the second regime. But I didn't. Today's capitalism. The market defines everything. There are already ideas coming up, and you support them, some of the MPs, like our businesses can't get a job, because in the tender they were cheaper, because they were danning prices. No, gentlemen, the denting price. The market is at stake, and we should respect that. So I say, the market defines corruption in major projects. I guarantee there's no corruption in the infrastructure on Corridor 10, as was the case, and that's where I'm looking for a confession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-07-0.u59286	Mr. Minister, we're giving you a confession for active participation in this session today. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, nor are there any registered among those who have not used the right to speak more, allow me to conclude a principled search of the bill and remind you that tomorrow at 10.00 we will continue our work.
