ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendments to the SRS state examples of the analogy in the proposed legislative decisions on holidays. That is why I have proposed an amendment to the very title of the law, which reads – a bill on national and other holidays that does not highlight in the title the necessary national moment of the state of Serbia. Statehood is mentioned without nationality. With the amendment, I propose to delete the words "other" and to insert the words "national", so that the law on state and national holidays in the Republic of Serbia reads itself. In my explanation, I stated that the word "others" is that it is an undefined deputy that reduces the importance of the national, national holidays of St. Sava and Vidovdan, which are in the termological category of other holidays. In my opinion, third terms, besides national and national holidays, there is no law, so there is no obstacle not to adopt the proposed title of the law. The government's explanation is, in my opinion, simply inconclusive and illogical. It was pointed out in the government's explanation that the amendment is not accepted for reasons to say "other" as a concept of broader meaning than "national" but implies national, religious, as well as an international aspect of the day to be celebrated. This is not the first time the government has feared the notion of "national", but it is known that the amendments of the SRS are not adopted when they are most logical. Statehood is a narrow notion of nationality that crosses the borders of this reduced state of Serbia, so the holidays and mentions of memories or solemn meanings of the missing in legal solutions must cross the state border, especially towards the west. On the other hand, termologically, the law must distinguish holidays from sad anniversarys, so I think it was meant to include the term "moved meanings" in the title of the law, because these are not celebrations that relate to more joyful and relaxed celebrations. In my view, it would be best to call the law on national and national holidays and solemn meanings, but the solemn ones mean, according to this bill, they stop again at the borders of the Drina, by rejecting the victims of the Trans-Drin Serbs. I'll talk more widely about it when I explain my amendment to Article 5 of the Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64083	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we also reminded in the principle debate that, unfortunately, the Serbian people through history had many days when Serbs were killed, persecuted, murdered in the most brutal way, when the Serbs were filled with caves. And today there are terrible things happening with the Serbian people, above all at KIM, and if we look at it, the Serbs could mark many days of the year to remember the various crimes that were happening to this people. On the other hand, the view of the SRS is that only three holidays should be marked as working days: Saint Sava, Vidovdan and Meeting. Everything else that you have proposed here in these amendments to the law is unacceptable for us and, of course, we have talked about it in principle and we are also talking about it through these amendments and our concrete proposals what should be changed in this bill of yours, as we have and when the law was passed since 2001, we have made clear views of the SRS and in 2007 when this law has already been amended once. The point is that there was no reason for this law to change and for Serbia to have much more pressing issues and much greater problems that this parliament should discuss. And, of course, what the SRS has been insisting for days, for months now, is that it's been here to discuss the problems at KIM. But you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to make it seem like the government is doing something, then you're distracting us with some laws of several members, which essentially change nothing in Serbia. This law we're discussing today, here's the minister - tell us what the citizens of Serbia are getting by this law? What will be better for Serbian citizens when this law is adopted in a few days? I guess it's high time the government of the Republic of Serbia started acting like a government that should take care of the interests of Serbian citizens. In this way, as you have done all these years, you have not shown that you care about the interests of Serbian citizens. In this first amendment, we envisioned that this member of yours be deleted, where you predicted that the meeting would be informally marked for two days, on February 15th and 16th. We believe it is absolutely inappropriate to increase the number of days in Serbia. The fact is, and we talked about it today, millions of people do not have jobs in Serbia and that they mark every day unworked. True, they can't celebrate it, because you've put them in a position so they can't even celebrate traditional religious holidays. And that's also something that goes on this government's mind. You say the amendment cannot be accepted because it is a state holiday meeting Statehood Day of Serbia, a reminder of the most significant historical events, which are founded by the state of Serbia and deserve to be marked with dignity. Minister, the meeting was this day and as you described it, which is not controversial, both in 2001 and 2007, when the law was amended. Then we ask ourselves, what has suddenly occurred to you that you are now giving such meaning to this date so that we may mark it for two days? To be clear, the SRS absolutely accepts the importance of this day and this date, and we advocate it to be one of three unworkable national holidays, but not to be marked for two days, but to mark only one day. You have also explained here that the legislative practice of the surrounding countries and other countries in a similar way, depending on the historical circumstances, predicted the marking of the most significant state events, whether it was the creation of the state, the acquisition of independence, the date of liberation and others. We can't accept this part of the argument, because we have no one to look up to, and we don't need to look up to each other. We have our own country, we have our own history, we have significant dates that we mark, and we would look up to those surrounding countries and some other countries. When we spoke here in the principle debate, an MP from the ruling coalition spoke about how many days are celebrated in Japan. Why didn't it occur to you to compare us to Japan in some other segments? How much money do people in Japan make, and how much in Serbia? How many people are unemployed in Japan and how many in Serbia? Totally inappropriate comparison. When it comes to comparing some countries in the environment, as you have written here, some of their state-of-the-art events, then we are experiencing an association on some holidays in an environment that is celebrated as days of state-of-the-art, etc., which are absolutely unacceptable for Serbia and Serbs. You will not look up to this Ustasha regime in Croatia, which celebrates Storm Day? It's a state-of-the-art day for them. And what kind of day is this for Serbia? That day should be marked. Is it marked by Serbia? No, it doesn't. No one can think of how many thousands of people were killed in the Storm, disappeared, expelled from the hearth, what Ustasha did to Serbs in the Storm before and after the Storm. When the Day of Storm is marked in the Church of St. Mark, there is no one from the state of Serbia. You don't care about that. It's not a day for you to mark. Of course, we could remember the crimes of so-called crime. The independent state of Croatia, slaughter, Jasenovac, slaughtered and killed Serbs, and this should be the day to be marked in Serbia. Of course, when I talk about these markings, I certainly mean marking work, dignity marking, not increasing the number of days off. That's absolutely unacceptable. Yesterday was November 29th, and it was also a day long celebrated in Serbia, which was the Statehood Day of the SFRY, and that day, you remember, was a long celebration and since it had ceased to exist. Why are we talking about that day? Because yesterday, on that same day in Serbia, something terrible happened that could associate us with, God forbid, celebrating that day as a day of statehood without KIM, because yesterday Boris Tadic urged Serbs to stay away from the barricades and open the way to Eulex, to continue. Yesterday, Serbs hurt, wounded, and instead of some serious state activity, we had that shameful betrayal call by Boris Tadic to remove Serbs from the barricades. Mr Rasim Ljajic, take care of our amendments and accept the amendment to Article 1. It is enough for us to do Statehood Day, to mark the meeting unworked one day and to give at least this few people employed in Serbia, not to increase their number of days of unemployed, because that is how it affects Serbia's citizens, Serbia's country as a whole and as a minister in charge of work, except that you inform us how many unemployed, how many hungry there are, do something to make there less people's cuisine, be less hungry, be more employees and give us once to discuss the labour law, which would be in the interest of all citizens or the largest number of citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64085	It's been used eight minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word, so MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64086	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, I feel that this amendment should not be accepted, especially in the context of the fact that we are practically celebrating in the Republic of Serbia for two days and celebrating the New Year, and the day of statehood, the day when the state of Serbia is established, we mark one day. I think if we celebrate New Year's Eve for two days, we can do two days' work on Statehood Day. Everywhere in the world, people's awareness of the state's love and respect is being developed and the country's respect is being respected everywhere, not just on that day of statehood, but on the rest of the day. As for some of the other arguments that we have heard and the arguments that explain this amendment, it is not true that on the day of the Storm in the Church of St. Mark there is no one from the state summit and the president of political parties. Much above comes that day to the temple of St. Mark. This year was Mr. Mladjan Djordjevic, there were many of us who attended the parastos of the Serb victims there. This explanation that Serbia has a lot to celebrate and a little bit of work and that we compare ourselves with much more developed countries, it is true, I would like to see more opportunities for work in Serbia and that every day when there is work, too, there is a holiday. But for Serbia, it would have been much better if some people hadn't worked as hard as they did, if they'd worked even less and celebrated more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64087	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and a National MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that in these amendments and additions to the law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, and especially in Article 1 of this bill, an unprecedented political hypocrisy of the Serbian government is hiding. So, the government proposes that the Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia, the Meeting, be celebrated in two days on February 15th and 16th. At the same time, the same government that suggests that we mark the meeting for two days is doing everything contrary to what the Serbs who raised the first Serbian uprising and to this great event we remember whenever we mark February 15th, as the Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do they know what the people who made the decision in Orasac on 15 February, led by Karadjordje, as the top leader of the Serb people, were fighting for, to lift the first Serbian uprising? So when you mark the other day, it's essential that you try to in your practical politics, follow that line that people started on that day. Mr. Ljajic, would Karadjordje and his rebels agree to recognize some customs seals of the fake state of Kosovo? Is that what Karajordje was fighting for? Is that why people who met on February 15th fought to free Serbia from the Turks? Did Karajorge fight for Serbia's border to be on Drina and on the Danube? Did Karadjorgje fight to lift the borders in Serbia or to create them? You create borders in Serbia. You have created one large between Vojvodina and central Serbia, by adopting the anti-constitutional statute of the AP Vojvodina. Now I ask you, at the same time, you suggest we celebrate the meeting for two days and here you create an independent state of Vojvodina. Did Karajorje fight for it? Was that the point of the February 15th, 1804th meeting? I guess the point was, Mr. Minister, to lift the borders in Serbia. Karajorge fought against Turkey's management. Serbia was reduced to a whole series of little princesses, nahiji. The elders of these nachis were Nahih princes. They collected a tribute from Serbs rather than teaching them to the Turks and the whole of Serbia, the small Serbia, the Belgrade pashaluk, was cut off amongst those nahihs. When Karadjordje rose in 1804, one of the basic ideas was to abolish the border across Serbia, to make Serbia unique, to expand, to bring freedom to the entire Serbian people. Remember that song – Dra's water, the noble border, between Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was a sense to create a single Serbian state. What are you doing, you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the ruling states? You're going back to the Turkish management system. Let's share this little bit of what's left of Serbia, and let's create some new autonomous provinces, some new regions, and give some special status. Was that the point of fighting in the year 1804? You're going back to pre-Karajordje's time in Serbia. We are very little that they have kidnapped the Republic of Serbia, which is strangling the Republic of Serbia, which is strangling the Serb people on KIM, now and this remnant of the rest of the Serbian state, let's disintegrate to the Feds, and then there's nothing left from Serbia. You have already declared one part of Serbia, practically, for a part that has special status. It's the AP Vojvodina. There you have the full parallelism of political institutions. You have a government, you have 18 regional secretariats, there's a Assembly, there's government bodies, there's a rural PIO office. Excuse me, there's a flag, a coat of arms. It is that the flag and coat of arms are made up and have nothing to do with the Serbian tradition in Vojvodina, but these are already very clear outlines of statehood. South of Sava and Danube, the geniuses came up with the idea of creating some kind of region. It is not enough that this poor and poor Serbian economy must support the Serbian government, which must support the province's government in Novi Sad, will now have to support the administration at regional level. Apparently, it's a European standard. So, the unseen hypocrisy. On the one hand, let's celebrate the meeting for two days, and we are doing everything the opposite of what the Serb elders and Serb rebels who met in the 1804th year have been fighting against the Turks. Imagine, Mr. Minister, if Karadjordje were alive, would he fight to be the border between Vojvodina and central Serbia, or would it be a single state? The point of that struggle, Mr. Minister, was to free the entire Serbian people and to find themselves in a single state one day. That was the point of the 1804th year. That was also the point in 1815, when the Second Serbian uprising was raised. This was the meaning of the struggle led by Ilija Garasanin, Jovan Ristic, Milovan Milovanovic, Nikola Pasic and in World War II, Draža Mihajlovic, and today Vojislav Seselj and SRS. That's the line, then. It's this basic political idea that stretches throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, that the entire Serbian people find themselves under one state roof, not to share it, not to pitch it, not to create borders within the Serbian people. That's what He fought for. The mountain crown is dedicated to the dust of the father of Serbia, Karadjordju. What's going on in Montenegro today? Milo Djukanovic wants Negos to declare Malten as bishop of the Roman Catholic Church and enroll him in the Vatican. They translate the Gorski Wreath from the Serbian into some kind of Montenegrin language. The man who did this gets a reward for some big intellectual venture. Here you have people who go and bow to him as great democracies, as a man who needs to bring God knows what good Serbia-Montenegro, and in general, to the Balkans. This is just amazing. Those of you sitting in the Serbian government, given the policy you're leading, you're not supposed to mark a single hour, not two days. No key policy relationship led by the Serbian government has anything to do with those ideas that appeared in both 1804 and 1804 years ago, the essence of which was the release of the entire Serbian people from the foreign government. Karadjordje deliberately brought a Serbian from southern Hungary, Dosite Obradovic, for the first minister of enlightenment to Serbia, as a guardian of education, and thus sent a clear message that this part of today's Serbian state is also something to fight for. He thus sent a clear message that his struggle was not limited to Belgrade's pasture, that his struggle was not narrowly Serbian, but all Serbian. He wanted to bring freedom to all Serbs. You give up the Republika Srpska province, you give up Republika Srpska, you made Vojvodina, as you would say in the older legal theory -- the Separatum Corps, one part with special rights within the state of Serbia, you boast about running negotiations with the Shiptars in KIM, while their NATO pact allies are shooting at our people in the north of KIM. Borko Stefanovic boasts of some great diplomatic success, both Serbia and this negotiating team, and in fact there is no negotiating team, but with KiM there is one man, this Borko Stefanovic, I don't know where you found him and who recommended him to you, so there is no negotiating team. I ask you, Mr. Minister, can you give me another name besides Borko Stefanovic, who is negotiating on KIM? So, a man boasts of great diplomatic success, he says -- we have agreed with Edith Tahiri, not on the customs stamp -- the customs of the Republic of Kosovo, but on the customs of Kosovo. He said that at one of the last meetings of the KIM Committee. Is that some big diplomatic success? Not the customs office of the Republic of Kosovo, but the customs of Kosovo. We'll recognize the ID cards, we'll admit the license plates, we'll admit the diplomas of the phantom university in Pristina, which were acquired by basements, cafes, who knows where, because there's never been a university in the past 10 years, in the right sense of that word, it wasn't, because since 1999 KIM, criminals and criminals have known what the university is and they don't give a shit about the university, but, well, Mr. Borko Stefanovic has thought that the state of Serbia will now recognise the diplomas of some Pristina university. What does that mean tomorrow, Mr. Minister? Tomorrow a man will come to Belgrade who owns that fake diploma of the University of Pristina and that he is seeking employment in Belgrade and you will have to hire him because you will have EU halabuca, if you do not do so, do not meet European standards. I ask you -- how many Serbs from Belgrade, Novi Sad, NK or Kragujeva University will be able to work in Pristina? They can't go there. Serbs living in Pristina are not allowed to beg from their apartments, not to bring someone diplomas and seek employment. With KIM you will be visited by the Shipari to seek employment in central Serbia with these diplomats and you will get it and you will have to give them a job, even if you contact the citizens of Belgrade and call someone with KIM from Shiptar, you will give the advantage to Shiptar, because my God, you must enter the EU, you must not discriminate. Mr. Minister, it is sad that a two-day celebration of the meeting is proposed by a government that is doing everything the opposite of what people who met in Maricevic's Jaruza did on February 15th and decided to raise their uprising against the Turks to bring freedom to all Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64089	Twelve minutes and 30 seconds spent from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. (Alexander Martinovic: From the parliamentary group. ) So 12 minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group, so now it is available to the parliamentary group 47 minutes. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64090	I don't suppose you'll allow me the right to reply, although I think I'm right, but let me hear what you're saying. Okay, then I'll use two-three minutes to answer in a way not a few of the remarks we've heard here, from representatives of the ruling coalition. [[President: You have no right to a replica. You have the time of the parliamentary group.]] When it comes to the New Year's holiday and a two-day celebration, in our next amendments you will hear that the SRS certainly does not ideologically accept this holiday, but it is something that has long been networked as a holiday and therefore we have not intervened, but the true holidays we recognize are only Saint Sava, Vidovdan and Meeting, as unworkable days. How do you like Serbia? It is very interesting that it can be said here that Serbia is loved by the introduction of non-working days. That's not how Serbia likes it. Serbia is not loved by setting up the NATO pact's locators in 1999, which bombed Serbia. Serbia doesn't like to be fired daily, with so many unemployed. He does not like Serbia, nor does recognition of the Supreme Court, so-called Kosovo. It's all the opposite of how Serbia loves itself. Serbia is fond of opening new jobs, hiring people, creating conditions for people in Serbia to live a decent man's life, but, above all, it loves each other by showing Serbia's integrity and territorial integrity. It's all the opposite of what Boris Tadic's regime is doing today. As part of marking these holidays, unfortunately, in a negative context, as the days in which the Serbian state parted, we could mark May 22nd. That day, the so-called "supervised" took place. The referendum, and with the results set, Milo Djukanovic separated Montenegro. Today, Tomislav Nikolic is going to donate to Milo Djukanovic because he is sent there by Stanko Subotic – Cane, their joint financier and the man who has promised to make a coup in Serbia, by placing these people, Nikolic and Vukic, with a lot of money, of course, which will later allow the flow of suspicious capital, primarily capital and drugs from Serbia to Montenegro and vice versa. Is that day supposed to be marked too? Today, Tomislav Nikolic is someone who is a rival to Boris Tadic for Serbia's EU accession. They are pushed outside the door in Brussels who will be the first to come to the bow, but here Boris Tadic is now at the opportunity, unfortunately, he does not seem to miss the opportunity to leave Serbia without KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64091	Three minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? MP Mirko Chikiriz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64092	I'm against accepting this amendment. Of course there is something to be said about the argument we heard in favour of accepting this amendment. The SPO, as a national party, the right-wing party, holds to its tradition and of course we feel it is necessary that the state of Serbia, in a decent manner, as well as all other countries in the world, marks the day of its statehood. But I'm gonna pull some parallel, too. What teaches us historical experience, often in people who interpret historical facts differently, identifies with something that has the sound of betrayal, etc., because people usually think that the state is made only with a rifle and a sword. Unfortunately, Karadjordjev's uprising failed precisely because of the fact that the relationship between international forces was not such that Serbia, at the moment it freed its entire territory, provided international support, because the great forces, Austria, France, Russia, were not ready to deal with Turkey at the time, and that was the reason for the collapse of the Karadjordje's uprising, not because Karadzic was not able to keep his soldiers free of territory. Upon returning to Serbia, the Russians advised Karadjordje not to return to Serbia because they were sending clear signals that they were not ready to go into a final match with Turkey, regardless of the heternistic movement created in Greece, which demanded that the Balkan uprising be raised against Turkey then. Milos Obrenovic had another logic – he respected what was happening in the then international community. And let's not forget, Milos Obrenovic also won Serbia's independence not only with the sword, but also with diplomacy. At the Berlin Congress in 1878, with the consent of the then international community, Serbia has been recognised independence. That he was another Serbian ruler, that he did not fully respect international circumstances and the relationship of international forces, also proves Milan Obrenovic, who without any valid reason and convincing reasons in 1885, declared war on Bulgaria then. We've suffered a shameful defeat. Bulgarian King Alexander had a number of happy circumstances that the then port had withdrawn from eastern Bulgaria, from Rumelia. Bulgaria was on a national flight, it went on a strong counter-offension, they set fire to the entire Pirotene, headed towards Nis, and thanks to pressure from the international community again, Bucharest's peace was concluded and a bloody drama that was then being prepared for Serbia was stopped. It was similar with Dragoljub Draž Mihajlovic. Neither the Partisan movement nor the Equality Movement decided the winner in World War II, the winners decided to agree on an agreement in Tehran and Yalta and to divide the world's spheres of interest. Just guided by these experiences, the SPO, regardless of what we would like to ask ourselves about the fate of our country, respects the fact that the international community and the most often great powers give the final judgment according to the moment and the relations of the forces and how the cards are mixed at the moment. Therefore, the SPO insists on Serbia's European path. That is why experience, whenever we have spread our territories and achieved our national goals, we have always done so with the support of the great world powers, primarily the United States, France and England, and therefore the SPO wants to be part of the family of European peoples, to be in the best relationship with those who decide largely about our fate. And Karadjordju and all those who have done much about Serbian statehood should indeed, with the proposal the government has proposed, in a decent way, mark everything they have done for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64093	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. After him, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64094	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, is an interesting explanation that we sometimes hear in this room, when it comes to amendments. It is interesting to call for Serbian history, tradition, but it is an amazing ignorance of Serbian history from those who are most vocally calling for this Serbian history and tradition. An attempt to compare Serbia with 1804 and 2011 and to call for traditional values from 1804th year and that fight from 1804th year, where these requirements and those political views that were heard in 2011, these views would look like this - I have in my hands the book "Serbian countries and rulers", written by Momir Jovic and Kosta Radic, and here it is said: In 1805, in the Assembly of Uprisingsors, the removal of Spahish feudal relations and the seduction of the internal autonomous administration in Belgrade pashaluk. It is said further -- that the Turks did not agree to such conditions, the armed uprising was continued, there was a victory on Ivanovec, etc., etc. And after that, there was the collapse of the uprising in 1815 and the absolute tragedy of the Serbian people, because the world's relations to this extent shifted to the damage of the Serbs, the Turks signed a truce with all their competitors and the Serbian people were left for mercy and mercy. On the other hand, in this book, the rule of each ruler was named by a map of Serbia -- how much was Serbia when it came to the throne and how much was Serbia when it left the throne. This was also given to Petar Karadjordjevic and Mihajl Obrenovic and Milos Obrenovic. Speaking of Michael Obrenovic, the following sentence is interesting: "Michajlo Obrenovic has contributed most to the modernisation of Serbia." Careful, in his long rule, his main goal was to implement internal reforms that would ensure Serbia's full power and independence from the port, he worked hard to pass legal acts that would further modernise Serbia and worked rather to make Serbia a modern European state. But he also did two things in which he would be remembered in history -- he resolved the disputes he had with the Turks and the Carlic Conference in Carigrad in 1862 envisioned the release of Serbia and the eviction of Turks from the towns that took Serbs at the time. But he failed to make Balkan agreements with Balkan advisers. And what's going on? Mihajlo Obrenovic was killed by the conspirators, explaining that he was a traitor. He was killed on May 29, 1968. And now to return to that sentence where I said that the size of a government is measured by how much was Serbia's map when it came to power and how much was the map when it left power. And that's all I have to say to my political opponents who are the loudest critics in this room. Look at the map of Serbia when you came to power in 1997 and look what you left us when we drove you away in 2000. And look when this Resolution 1244 was signed, which sent our army and police from Kosovo to central Serbia. And then there's no need to throw anything at me, no need to tell me anything, no need. This applies exclusively to you on my left. There's no need to tell me anything, there's no need to rephrase it to me because facts and history will leave this in writing. The map of Serbia and what the locators are, you know it best. Is there a need in the 21st century for someone to set up locators? Someone who leads politics and says -- if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, I will retire from politics for life, and then 60,000 pairs of NATO boots set foot in Kosovo. Then he says, "Ooh, hook, there's an empty register, where I'll go from politics, let's go back to power." Five minutes from the government and a run back to the state manger and the state register, because there's more to sell, this map can still be narrowed down, it's important to stay a day or two in power. That's enough talking about such a policy. There's no need for me to say anything else. There's no need to make any other argument, because these are facts that are irrefutable. These are the facts that will remain in all the history of Serbia, whoever wrote them, you, we, these, they. We're all here, but it'll be written down. Such a policy put a locator on the whole map of Serbia and said – now hit, I'm sure, it's important that I stay in power. There's no need to talk about such a policy anymore. This policy has told itself everything about itself and someone will sometimes write – Serbian countries and 20th century rulers, 21st century. But never again will this land be ruled, it will be managed and always the measure of impact will be – how much a map of Serbia was for you when you came to power and how much you pay us back. And once we, once, leave the country's administration site, we will return Serbia's map as it was when we found it, without a single millimeter of Serbian territory where an alien flag is flying. What we've found, that fire and that flame that we're pulling chestnuts out of the fire today, and some of them with their failed politics, their own blizzards, they're constantly blowing that fire to make it harder for us to get those chestnuts out of the fire, so let them look at their pierced mechs of that failed policy, and let them blow into that fire, and we'll rip what's left of Karajord, of Milosh. We know what we will do both in front of Milos and in front of Karadjord and in front of Zoran and in front of all the greats of Serbian history – without the seal of shame, proud of what we have done, the grateful and the God and the people for all that we have managed to save, but without any reason to bow our heads before those who have reduced this map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64095	Seven minutes has been used since the MPs' time. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64096	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I just don't know what to say after this piece of singing, dancing and crying.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64097	Please, without direct communication, allow the MP to address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64098	counterparts from the ruling coalition seem to have absolutely misunderstood what the Serbian Radical Party's amendment is all about. So when you mark one day, such as the Meeting, February 15, 1804, if you are fundamentally politically correct, then you have an obligation to inherit those ideas that were born on that day. On that day, Mr. Minister, it was definitely formed at a gathering in Orasac, the idea of raising an uprising against Turks, while at the same time liberating the entire Serbian people and peoples from Belgrade Pashalu and outside Belgrade Pashaluk, from Montenegro, from Bosnia, from Dalmatia, from southern Hungary. That was the meaning of the struggle between the Karajords and the Prince Milos. If I understand correctly, Mr. Chokiriz, we should not celebrate Serbian freedom fighters and the days of Serbian history because, he says, the international community's influence on what is happening in the Balkans is greater than our influence. That's right. Does that mean that we should celebrate now, I don't know Queen Victoria, Dizaeli, or Churchill, or Roosevelt, not Karajord, Prince Milos and some other Serbian giants? So what's the point of our amendment is to remind the citizens of Serbia that you formally mark Meeting as Serbia's Statehood Day, but you're essentially running a policy that has nothing to do with those ideas that are shaped in the early 19th century. There is absolutely no connection between the policies of the current Serbian government and the struggle that was waged at the time of Karadjord, at the time of Prince Milos and later. I have to remind you of a significant historical document: the 1984 Ilia Garashanin principled to free the entire Serbian people from then Serbia, from Montenegro, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from those areas that were owned by Austria. It was the purpose of fighting all Serbian rulers, ministers, princes, elders throughout the 19th and early 20th century. It was the point of fighting, that Serbs live in one country. That's the idea you're running away from. You're saying that this idea has been overcome, that it's wartime, that it's criminal, etc. We think it's a deeply human and emancipatory idea. That it was, in fact, the continuation of those ideas that occurred in Western Europe in the 18th and 19th centuries, and that went to educate large and united national states. If it was an emancipatory idea for the French and the Germans, for the Italians and the Spanish, I don't know why it wouldn't be an emancipatory idea for Serbs to live in a single Serbian state. If that idea had been achieved, we wouldn't have had genocide or war crimes, no one would have banished us, etc. The best defense for some new genocide over the Serb people is that Serbs live in a single Serbian state, which is also democratic and which guarantees all human and minority rights and those who are not Serbs. For the Serbian Radical Party, there are no dilemmas. Mr. Poetnik, who has recently read some history books and shown us maps, seems to forget that the Serbian Radical Party, among other things, has left him with a unique Serbian state of Serbia-Montenegro. I must remind Mr Milivojevic that this same great Zoran, whom he is calling for, in 1999, from Germany and Montenegro, called on Milo Djukanovic for a NATO pact to hit Serbia even harder, as this would make the regime of Slobodan Milosevic fall. They're historical facts. I must remind you of the 2000 DOS promise that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija-Montenegro will be resolved in a democratic way, as they have spoken democratic issues, and since we are Democrats and Milo Djukanovic is a Democrats, then we will agree on a continuation of the functioning of the common state. I'm asking you why you didn't make a deal. Where is the map of Serbia-Montenegro left for you in 2000, Mr Milivojevic? Where's Montenegro now? What happens now in Montenegro with your great friend Milo Djukanovic and great friend Tomislav Nikolic? There Serbs are artificially translated into a Montenegrin nation, artificially imposed on them by Montenegrin language, artificially creating an existing Montenegrin Orthodox church, there fantasizing that Montenegrins are actually red Croats, there from the official use of officially exiled Cyrillic. Now, these are the liquids you've been boasting about since 2000. As for Kosovo and Metohija, the NATO Pact bombing and everything else, I think the situation is clear to the citizens of Serbia. We entered the Serbian government, not in 1997, but in March 1998 with the idea of opposing NATO's pact and defending Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we have done everything to defend them. We were the only political party against accepting the Chernomidin -- Ahtisaari agreement, and against the arrival of KFOR troops in Kosovo and Metohija. That was what you from the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party and from the Serbian Renewal Movement were for. I don't need to remind you that the foreign minister at the start of the bombing was Vuk Draskovic. So, when you evacuate these tragic events from 1999, it would be good to evacuate them in their full historical context, not to rip a piece by piece from the entire course of historical context, as it suits you. After all, how do you complain that NATO officers and soldiers have come to Kosovo and Metohija, and your official policy is Euro-Atlantic integration. Well, they're your friends. You claimed that soldiers should come from NATO countries. These are civilized and democratic countries. We want to join the family of democratic and developed European peoples. Here you now see in the work of Kosovo and Metohija what this European democracy and Euro-Atlantic civilization looks like, by shooting at the naked people and by going to the bare-armed people in a war car. These are the ideas you're inheriting. That's what you're up for. You're in favour of the Serbs removing the barricades, which is the meaning of the message of the President of the Republic since yesterday. The point is very simple. "Here, I told you to get off the barricade, you don't want to do it, now it's all your responsibility." Then Boris Tadic will wash his hands and say "I have nothing to do with what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact that I invited Eulex to come to Kosovo and Metohija doesn't matter, that my outstanding and authorised trader for Kosovo and Metohija Borko Stefanovic recognises the customs stamps, diplomas, ID cards, license plates, it has nothing to do with it, the Americans told me a hundred times a day that you will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija, and everything is for you to essentially recognise Kosovo and Metohija." I don't know what it is if it's not a state, when you have customs, diplomas that are recognised in Serbia, license plates, ID cards, what it is. It's a country. Who recognizes that country? Well, that same Borko Stefanovic of yours. It is he who boasts that all this has been done to finally win the status of minority candidates for the retired European Union on December 9th. The European Union is falling apart, the peoples who have formed the European Union flee from the EU, the countries after each other are bankrupt, the markets are falling, the English have sent an official diplomatic note to their embassies across the EU, to prepare for the euro collapse and possible protests, you are living in a world of your own, there is a paradise on earth somewhere in the West, running honey and milk, there are no problems, the EU is stable and just waiting for us to recognise the customs stamps and to receive us into that society of rich, happy and developed nations, marching across Europe, protesting the crazy policies of the Brussels Bureau, who cannot find work, which remain on the street, etc. Now I ask you, is it a price to give up KIM and not just KIM, because no one guarantees us tomorrow when we admit KIM it's over? Remember what happened in 2001. What did Zoran Djindjic say? Just to deliver Slobodan Milosevic, co-operation with The Hague tribunal ends. After that, not that it is not finished, is it so, Mr Ljajica, even after Hadzic and Mladic's extradition is not over. Now it's not enough to deliver them. A sick man who had a stroke, Ratko Mladic. Let's see who hid him, who his flocks were, and when we find the flocks and who their flocks were. There's no end. (President: People's Parliament, I beg you, a little bit on the subject of the agenda. You've gone too far in the argument. ) So, Mrs. Komic, there is no end to blackmail, pressure, deception, fraud. (President: It's about holidays. I'm asking you about the agenda. ) It's about holidays, it's about Meeting, it's about fighting for freedom, about vertical, unique and dignified Serbia for which the SRS is fighting.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64099	It was used 11 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64100	I'm really going to say it very briefly. Of course, in the 19th century, the creation of national states, that Karadjordje and his rebels formed the idea of raising the uprising and liberating the entire Serbian people from the 500-year Ottoman occupation. I just mentioned some positive and negative historical experiences. Regardless of what we could define in 1999 as the year of the great fraud of the people who were leading the state at the time, remember that they said that if NATO bombed the pact that there would be a third world war, that the Russians, the Chinese, would immediately declare America and NATO to the Third World War, that NATO's pact would fall apart, that Western public opinion would rise, that it would help us to reach tens of thousands of armed goats who were just waiting for the first bomb to fall, that Tesla had left a secret weapon, that the banisha, as they called the Russians, would send S2 and Suho. What's crucial to meeting is that, and my predecessor said and the stenogram recorded it, the greater impact of the international community on the status of certain states and that we live in a world that is nevertheless...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64101	Please, without being thrown away and allow the MP to address the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jelena Trivan, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64102	Thank you. And this amendment speaks of a serious tendency in Serbia to abolish all modern flows and every co-operation, Serbia's civilization co-operation with the world. What we should be proud of, what at a time when we had a step with the world and when we belonged to a civilized world, all the liquids of anti-fascism and further here there is the urgency to be abolished through different laws and various amendments of the opposition MPs. It is quite embarrassing and it should be opposed, as well as an attempt to serve all these amendments for the dirtiest conversation about them, the dirtiest and ugliest policy of the '90s in which all non-insects simply accuse themselves of traitors. Here we have heard rhetoric, gentlemen, we have seen it in action and we can pave the way for the rest of our lives whether traitors are those who warned about the horrors of war or those who have turned refugees away from entering Belgrade and whose consequences are just the heartburns and collective centres, which we are talking about today, 20 years later, and we are trying to solve. What I'm saying to you is, it's terrible that in the 21st century we talk about collaboration with the world as a danger, not opportunities for Serbia, that today we talk about dialogue as a threat, not a chance to save our people, and that any attempt to save a man's life is for you to assume and put him first instead of anything else or any mythan ideas. What is politics towards Kosovo today is that these people down there who are our citizens and their lives are being preserved, because without them neither Kosovo nor Serbia will be. It's very simple. Go away from you and Karadjord and all the mythomanic stories. It's a good thing we have history and a tradition that we can rely on, but it's tragic that in the 21st century we run a 19th century politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64103	It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To member. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a matrix has been created in Serbia for more than 10 years about how someone wanted a war and someone fought for peace. We Serbian radicals wanted war, we were guilty of crimes, we turned in 1995, when Vojislav Seselj was in prison in Gjilan, refugees from Republika Srpska not to enter Belgrade, we were to blame for sanctions, we were to blame for the lines for the loan, sugar, gasoline, etc., we were to blame for the NATO bombing, we were to blame for everything. Someone else has always been for peace, always been for an agreement, for co-operation with a civilized Europe, etc. So again, a little historical reminder. When Jovan Raskovic founded in Knin, the Serbian Democratic Party named her after DS Dragoljub Micunovic in Belgrade, only because the party formed in Knin gave her the Serbian prefix. When Jovan Raskovic and Radovan Karadzic came to Belgrade in 1991 and 1992, before meeting with Slobodan Milosevic, they went to their friends from the DS. That can be confirmed by Dragoljub Micunovic. Next, you peacemakers, tell me, in 1993, who was in the Palams making the ox while waiting for the NATO pact to be bombed? Who went there to encourage the Serbian people to stay in their hearths and fight? ( Speaker: National MP, with respect to the width of the context for the amendment that you are asking to add Vidovdan to the Day of Victory, I would still ask you to explain the topic of the agenda a little more with the context that is related to the topic of the agenda. ) Mrs. Comic, just to mention another Serbian giant, Ljubisa Saviæ Mauzer, and I think the gentlemen here know which party he belonged to. As for the amendment to Article 2, that's what Mr. Ljajic was talking about when we discussed the draft law in principle. I reminded you then of some facts that are insufficiently known to Serbian citizens or to a part of Serbian citizens. First, as for the New Year's, the New Year's, and that is the fact, is today an international holiday and is marked, less, in most countries of the world, on January 1st and 2nd. I reminded you in the principle debate of how that holiday came to be. The holiday did not come as a celebration of a new summer, it came as a memory of a Roman pope from the early Middle Ages, Pope Sylvester I, who died on the night between December 31st and January 1st. Mr. Milivojevic, the Catholic Church has declared the pope a saint and they do not celebrate the death of the pope, but the glory of the saint, one of their saints. This evening, Roman Catholic canons are called the Evening of St. Sylvester or Sylvester. I just want to remind you how one holiday came about. Just because he got a different context in the meantime, that doesn't mean we don't need to know now how that holiday actually happened. As for May 1st, Mr. Ljajic, I still have to direct you to the calendar of the Roman Catholic Church, and I don't want to say anything ugly about that church or its believers. It's simple, it's facts. You take a Roman Catholic calendar. Do you know what it's called on May 1st on a Roman Catholic calendar? St. Joseph's worker. Which one is Joseph? Here's a reward question for the citizens of Serbia. I don't know, Mr. Senic, some holy Joseph worker is important because of May 1st. The Catholic worm on that day marks St. Joseph’s workman. What does St. Joseph's worker have to do with Serbia and the Serbian people and the Serbian tradition, political, spiritual, cultural? I don't see any connection here. If you see, it would be good for you to tell us the connection between St. Joseph and the Serbs, except that one other Joseph killed many Serbs, imprisoned, expelled, robbed, and so forth. There is a Mr. Ljajic, as far as May 1st is concerned, another aspect. So now I'm just making some scientific facts. In German mythology the night between 30 April and 1 May is called Valfurgian Night or Halloween. And on May 1st, in German mythology, pagan mythology, in this German pagan mythology has its own meaning. You've heard of Halloween movies. They were screened as a memory of this pagan German mythology. When fairies, witches, etc. gather on a hill in the mythical Germania. Now I ask you, what does German pagan mythology have to do with Serbian Orthodox and Christian traditions? It doesn't matter much. Of course, on May 1st, he later received a different context, and more in the minds of the greatest part of the world’s citizens, the greatest part of mankind is not marked as Halloween but as an international festival of work. But in an explanation why you don't accept our amendment that we're asking to delete on May 1st, as the next day, which is marked for two days, you've brought some things out here that we in the SRS disagree with. So, you say on May 1st or international work holiday is a holiday where members and supporters of the workers' movement mark the memories of their achievements, i.e. the sacrifices they have suffered to fight for greater labour rights. The celebration of the holiday was established in 1889, and the decision was made by representatives of workers from around the world at the First Congress of the Second International in Paris. Mr. Ljajic, first of all, they weren't representatives of workers from all over the world. There were representatives of a number of socialist and communist parties from above all European countries. What did these people have to do with authentic proletariats and authentic workers? That's extremely disputable. So in 1889, Karl Marks, the author of communist ideology, was no longer alive, died several years earlier, but he was alive, Friedrich Engels. Do you know what he was, Mr. Ljajic? One of the most powerful industrialists in Germany. He was one of the richest people in Europe at the time. You think he really had some big concern and some big sympathy with workers in England, Germany, France or some other European countries who have been mistreated. I doubt he did. Secondly, at that time when the Second International was educated, there was an unprecedented conflict on the left. That's when the Social Democratic Party started. There's a real war between Marxists and non-marksists La Sala, Kautsky, etc. That's where the real war raged. So within that left-wing movement, they hated each other more than the left-wings of all colors hated themselves with, say, clericals, liberals, etc. That's where he's pissed off, so it's a real war. The war from Europe on the left was later passed on to Serbian countries, i.e. Yugoslavia. Many Yugoslav communists paid their heads for these calculations within their ideological movement before Stalin's cleanups and during Stalin's cleanups and after Stalin's cleanups. So, Petko Miletic, Simo Markovic and many others were killed because they disagreed with Yugoslavia's official communist party on the national issue. Many others were killed in Stalin’s day because they may have been sent there by this holy Joseph worker to remove himself from the competition in the fight for the communist party Yugoslavia. What was happening on the naked island was again a struggle within the communist movement. Some claimed that Yugoslav communism was not authentic enough, that it had little deviation from the original model fought by Lenin, Stalin and others and those others who had imprisoned them there, who said that our socialism in Yugoslavia was in fact the realisation of Marks' ideas about self-management of workers, associations of manufacturers, etc. Now I ask you again, Mr. Minister. What does all this have to do with Serbian tradition? You need to pass the law on Serbia's national holidays. What do Serbia and the Serbian people have to do with both Karl Marks and Friedrich Engels and the First and Second Internationals and Stalin, and everyone else. They don't have anything to do with it. But now there's another hypocrite in action. We boast on 1 May, the right workers, the fight for workers' rights, and the social situation of those same workers in Serbia is never worse. They lose their jobs, women who are pregnant can't get a job, employers blackmail them. If you're not a child of rich parents, you can't study. What kind of fight is that for workers' rights? What are the essentials, as you say, of the benefits the workers will have since May 1st, which is marked for two days? They won't have any. You play with symbols. You're playing Meeting, you're playing on May 1st, and you're essentially running a completely opposite policy compared to those days you're supposed to want to mark. So, Mr. Minister, I think you should accept this amendment, especially because we advocate that Vidovdan and St. Sava be unworkable days. Because it really doesn't make any sense that New Year's and May 1st, and authentic Serbian national and religious holidays, such as Saints Sava and Vidovdan, are marked at work. What does tagging mean? In fact, you don't even mark it. That's why we've been marking St. Joseph's worker for two days. That SRS thing has nothing to do with each other. Saints Sava and Vidovdan are really big dates in Serbian history, and if you want to mark them, if young generations in Serbia, not only Serbs but other Serbian citizens want to learn about the importance of these dates, then celebrate these dates unworkedly, then pay great attention to them, and what is not important for Serbs and Serbia, it is either not at all to mark or mark those authentic Serbian holidays and, of course, mark them solemnly and unworked.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64105	Ten minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64106	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, I hold in my hands the list of children of the victims of the Jasenov camps. The list lists 19,432 children, 19,432 children of 40,000 children who were killed in Jasenovac. It means name and last name, father's name, age, birthplace and years of murder. These include 1,122 children from Serbia, mainly from Srema, 132 children from Belgrade, from Bosnia Gradiška, a total of 3,689 children.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64107	People's MP, I ask that you do not abuse the tragedy that has occurred and that all of your context in which you wish to use this tragic list is in connection with the amendment, because there is no word in the amendment about what you are currently talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64108	Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have a day of memory of 40,000 Serbian children...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64109	People's MP, I have now reminded you that there are no words about the victims you mention, and I find this a lack of measure, except for the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, because you have not mentioned in the amendment a single word that you wish to set such a date. So apart from the fact that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I find it unacceptable to abuse the tragedies that occurred to families during World War II, and that this has absolutely nothing to do with the amendment currently under investigation, nor have you submitted an amendment to such a species. I ask you either about the amendment or I will thank you without warning, but with a warning that you do not exceed what is deemed to be good taste in addressing each other without the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64110	Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64111	People's MP, every time I remind you, I inform the MPs that the time spent reminding you that you do not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I never take into account the time used by the MP, so I ask you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64112	Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia mark the day on May 1st, when workers in the United States were strikers seeking to raise their salaries. I hope I'm on the subject now. I ask the question: should the greater importance for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia be reminded of the strike of American workers who are unhappy with their salaries or greater importance should have the memory of millions of members of the Serbian people who are in World War II...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64113	People's MP, you have failed to submit an amendment asking for that Day of Memories to be marked. I consider not only a violation of the Rules of Procedure but an incredible insistence of yours to abuse the tragedy of people who were killed during World War II, because you believe you have the right to do so in a search of particulars. If you want to talk about the amendment, go ahead, if not, this is the last warning of a warning measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64114	Mrs. Comic, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to say that there is no reason to mark May 1st as a date of importance for the Republic of Serbia, unless we mark much more significant dates for the Serbian people, for the Republic of Serbia and for the Republic of Serbia, but we do not allow that. I have to make a parallel. You know, if we mark May 1st, there are reasons why we mark May 1st. We're asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64115	People's MP, if you're going to make a parallel, then you should have submitted the amendment. Abuse of innocent deaths because of political motives is not allowed. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ljajic, it is good that you have proposed this law, although I now risk being misrepresented by the media, and I did not say last time that you will have the support of all MPs for this law, this is one of the few laws that will be applied with 300% and one of the few laws that began to apply 11 years before it entered into force. When I say that it is good that you have proposed this law does not mean that SRS MPs will vote for it, but it is good that citizens of Serbia and Serbs, wherever they live, see which religion and who is not, what is the situation, what is the relationship between individual MPs in the history of the Serbs and the Serbian people and what is supposed to be a holiday. Rarely, a nation on a globe has so many reasons and needs to have days to celebrate and days to grieve and mark. Unfortunately, throughout history, we have one day or the same date when we can celebrate it and propose that the SRS be celebrated and Vidovdan as a state holiday but on the same day, a large number of Serbian citizens could probably also grieve for the reason that one of the presidents and Serbia and the SRJ was illegally taken away, captured and delivered to The Hague, both against the law and against the constitution. Do you see the history of the Serbian people, not a bit light, but for us it is proud above all and the fact that there are members in the SRS who are Serbs of Islamic religion, Serbs of Roman Catholic confessions and of all other peoples and peoples and building this relationship of respect and mutual trust for us is a political motive and political goal, but it is a shame that certain colleagues show us cards here. I conclude that in 2000, it was said that KIM is not an integral part of Serbia. What did this government do to apply Resolution 1244? This regime has done a lot...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64117	People's MP, I ask you to speak on the subject of the agenda and if I should explain that when the MP explains the amendment concerning the Meeting and the Statehood Day that the context is one, and when the MP explains the amendment to which he wishes to mark the day of truce in the First World War or to abolish the Day of Work, that the context is different, so I ask you about the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64118	My amendment is that May 1st and May 2nd are wiped out like holidays. Mr. Minister said that many countries in the area of Statehood Day have been celebrating for two days, because we also celebrate the New Year's Eve for two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64119	People's MPs, your amendment is not about Statehood Day, so I remind you that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64120	If you think so, so be it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64121	National MP, when I remind you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, I do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of the text of the amendment which is submitted to me, as well as on the text of the amendment and the amendment of the law, so when I remind you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, I do so by explaining why I remind you and now I am giving you a warning against giving criminal measures if you insist that you continue to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to speak of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64122	The state is not or is not respected in such a way as to establish a smaller or larger number of holidays held, but in such a way as and how much conditions the government and regime will provide for the citizens of Serbia. That's why we don't have a primary because at first I said that almost every day there could be a state holiday. You see, Mr. Minister, in an explanation for not accepting my amendment what else is said, because I have made it clear that the national holidays should be St. Sava and Vidovdan. This is what you say – both holidays and SPC in an appropriate manner and according to church canons. You don't think this government, Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic, can even cancel church holidays? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64123	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Members of the 2nd amendment are jointly composed of mid-national MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic have submitted a joint amendment, with an amendment suggesting that two new members of 2a and 2b be added after Article 2. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment together are the mid-term MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64124	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, LSV MPs feel it is necessary to regulate the issue of national and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia for a longer period. We have submitted two amendments to the proposed amendments to this law. These amendments are not only a termological intervention to what is proposed, but we think it is necessary to point out and it would be good to adopt them. I'll read this article on the 5th we've submitted to the amendment. Article 3 is but refers to Article 5 of the Law. Article 5 would now look like this if these changes were adopted and complemented – The Republic of Serbia celebrates the work of the Holy Sava, the Day of Spirituality, Vidovdan, the Memorial of the Kosovo Battle and the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II, the mention of October 21st 1941 and the bloody fall of 1941, when the German occupation forces committed mass war crimes against civilians in Kragujevac and throughout Serbia. St. Sava is celebrated on January 27th, and Vidovdan on June 28th on the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II on October 21st. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina assures that it is necessary to mark and mark not only with one day, but with the work and operation of the anti-fascist tradition of this country, it is not necessary. We believe it takes at least this long to determine the date on which we're all going to mark it. We also agree that it should be October 21st, because most citizens of the Republic of Serbia think it should be. But what bothers us and why I read this proposed article is this. He should not go to the National Assembly to come to any law that changes the name of this country. I have before me the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not to read again, but the 1st member says "The Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law" etc. etc. If we have agreed and written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that it is the Republic of Serbia, then at least in the law, the Republic of Serbia is always the Republic of Serbia, while that is the case. I know that some are ignoring and implying this when they say -- Serbia, that it is automatic and the Republic of Serbia, but there are also those who, for ideological and other reasons, deliberately point out that it is only Serbia, do not forget, but do not want to say that it is the Republic of Serbia. They also have a right to speak as long as the heritage of that idea. But what's happening to us? The commercial means of information should know what this country is called, but the public service of the Republic of Serbia needs to know what this country is called and should not happen, for example. in public service information emissions most often said - Serbian President, Serbian Prime Minister. That's what we listen to every day. He deliberately forgets and doesn't utter the full name of our country. There is no president of Serbia. There is a President of the Republic of Serbia and a Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Well, for example. In the sports program of our public service in the transmission or comments of sporting events is most often said – Serbian representatives, Serbian athletes, etc., and in this equipment and with the coat of arms proudly and very well, even best, represent for example. people like Miralem Sulejmani, Adem Ljajic, Mikhail Dudaš, Nadja Higl, Brižitka Molnar or Djula Mešter or anyone else. I apologize to these people for mentioning their names. I never tend to question anyone of national origin or belongings, but by names I'd say they don't belong to the majority people. Among other things, we happen to be from very important places in this country, meaning from the Ministry of Culture, says they are Serbian writers, and they list: Ivo Andric, David Albahari, Danilo Kiš, Mesa Selimovic, etc. These are all people who were or some of them were residents and proud citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but most of them, or those I listed, I guess they don't belong to the majority people. This second part, where this day is proposed to be a day of memory of Serbian victims in World War II. In the case of the environment I come from, I'll be free to say that it's important to know who's been hurt, but to what extent it's not so much. For example, on the territory of the municipality of Bačka Topol on its way to Bajša in the summer of 1941, a camp was formed in which Jews were taken. About 6,000 Jews were imprisoned in that camp. All 83 came back after World War II. These others were mostly killed. Today, Jews can count on the fingers of one hand in Backo Topoli. At the 15th Grand Duchy Brigade of 1200 fighters, 99% were Hungarians, 94 left their lives for the freedom of this country and all of us. These 94 are started in alphabetical order, from Apro Pal, to Verosh Joseph, they are numbered in that order, and we remember them. So they weren't just and they shouldn't be in this law just Serbian victims. It should be our day of memory of the victims in World War II, all in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64125	Six minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Now I'm setting a break for the morning part of the work. We'll continue at 12.45 hours, hour break. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You will receive a word at the beginning of the afternoon. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon session, with a request for a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure, which the MP had and will receive as soon as he is in the O.R. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64127	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for not forgetting me. I reported for breach of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure regarding Mr Radovanovic's exposure, because, in my opinion, there was a violation of the National Assembly's dignity. First, his amendment has nothing to do with athletes competing in any sports for the Serbian team. And when it is said that he is a Serbian athlete, it is not thought that he is a Serb by nationality, but that he defends the colors of the Republic of Serbia in an appropriate sports competition and such a termology is common everywhere in the world. What led above all to the violation of the National Assembly's dignity is that part of Mr Radovanovic's exposure, where he says Ivo Andric and Mesa Selimovic were not Serbs. That's just not true. So Ivo Andric considered himself a Serb Roman Catholic confession, and Mesa Selimovic considered himself a Serb Muslim religion. There were many Serbs Roman Catholics and Muslims who contributed greatly to the development of Serbian spirituality and Serbian culture. It would be good if the Social Democrats of Vojvodina, before they report for the word, read little from Serbian history and know who is in Serbian history.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64128	There is no violation of article 107, or there was no need to warn MP Radovan Radovanovic of violating the provisions of article 107, for the simple reason, which was the context and argument he had, in connection with the abandonment of the official name of the Republic of Serbia and with commenting on the need for both officials and us working in the institutions of Serbia, to be named by the name it stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then cited examples, not jeopardising neither the dignity nor the reputation of the National Assembly. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. ) In the day for the vote, the National Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which it considers to have been done in connection with Article 107, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MPs Boyan Kostreš and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64129	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendments to Article 3. The SRS sought to adjust the member's termologically with the problem of marking the overall national Serb death. In the new version, Article 3 would read, quote – in the Republic of Serbia, the memories of the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II and the bloody fall of 1941, when the German occupation forces committed mass war crimes against civilians in Kragujevac and throughout Serbia, the Days of Remembrance of all Serb genocide in the Independent State of Croatia in World War II. It is the day of the establishment of the Jadovno camp, on June 26th 1941 and the day of the establishment of the Jasenovac camp on August 21st 1941. In the light of the amendment, I listed the following. I quote - aside from the terrible German crimes against Serbs in Kragujevac, Kralje and other cities in Serbia, it is necessary to determine the days of memory of even more terrible crimes of genocide against pre-kodrin Serbs, which the Republic of Croatia will certainly not include in its patriotic memory calendar. The epilogue of massacre, killing Serbs and throwing at the Velebit Cave and into the sea around the island of Pag has reached an incredible situation. 42,000 Serbs, Jews and in small numbers, Croats and Yugoslavs were killed. Jadovno is only a symbolic name for the largest site in Southeast Europe in the summer of 1941. It was a system of Croatian death camps with a centre in Gospić, which was a gathering camp and which included camps in the village of Jadovno and other caves in Velebit, Karlobag and camps on the island of Pag, in Slano and Metajna. Jasenovac is just a continuation of the mass killing of Serbs and Jews. Since he was founded in August 1941, i.e. After the execution of the death camp system with the centre in Gospić. The number of Jasenovic victims is estimated from 300,000 to 700,000 killed Serbs, Jews, Roma and Croats, according to studies. These changes in Article 3 level the victims from Serbia with victims from other Serbian countries. In the principle debate, I pointed out that last year and this year, they finally began to mark the days of memory of Jadovno, which had been completely wiped out from the minds of the Serbian people. I said that thanks to Dr. Bastresic of Banja Luka, this year a scientific meeting on the subject of Jadovno was organized. It was the first scientific gathering on the Yadovna, which was otherwise completely forgotten. As a participant of some scientific gatherings in Jasenovac, I was surprised to see that many foreign scientists have never heard of Jadovno. As I have already pointed out in the principle debate, the celebration of Yugoslavia and Serbia has always been marked by an ideological and political background, from the celebration of monarchy, the dynasty and the monarchy, to the analytical communist and socialist holidays that celebrated the cult of a fighter, but only one, partisan, without another, anti-fascist Chetnik. A cult of working-class workers in the country, so-called A socialist negativity. It was a famous sentiment – no one can pay me as little as I can work. A cult of revolutionary illegal AVNOJ decisions was also celebrated, which put Serbs within the new violently withdrawn borders into republican cargo. Due to the ideological disagreements expressed today in the people, and especially in Serbian politics, it may also be necessary to consider neutral dates, which cannot be attributed to any ideology. For example, as a general Serbian holiday, but as a general civil day of memory, a day of people's destruction, all of which began to suffer the Serbian people, as well as other peoples in World War II. It was April 6, 1941, and that day could be mentioned as common for all the casualties in World War II. Today there is also a legitimate Day of Remembrance, which is the Day of Remembrance of Victims in Jasenovac, which is marked on 22 April 1945 as the date of the breach of the campers from Jasenovac. The date was passed by the Law on the establishment of a museum of genocide victims. Otherwise, the law in its own time also supported the Holy Synod of SPC. In the end, that date could also be included among these dates related to the Day of Remembrance. Serbian Patriarch Irinej recently reported on political and state concerns about marking the Day of Remembrance. He advocated the respect and equality of all victims, the equalisation of all victims within, that is, the order of the Serb people. I will now read to you parts of the written address of Patriarch Paul since 20 October 2011, which best reminds the legislators that they have sinned against the abuse of the Predrin Serbs. The title of the patriarch's address is – Let us gather around the place of destruction, as our martyrs are united in the suffering of the kingdom of heaven. I will quote the Patriarch – martyr's graves and death scenes for our holy church, especially in its primordial state, were a place of gathering and unity. Places where the identity of the church appeared. Just remember that the first temples were created right on the martyr's graves. For our people, the sites of suffering are places of special respect, sacred places that have been very determined by the Serbian identity, from Kosovo via Vracar to the Albanian gogote and the Blue Tomb. This applies to Kragujevac, the scene of the terrible crime of the German army, and even more so to Jasenovac, the place of one of the most terrible crimes in general, which has already found a place in memorials, exhibitions and textbooks throughout the world, along with Treblinka, Dahau and Auschwitz, whose 27th day of liberation is marked in many countries, although not on their territory. On the contrary, a large number of Sremac died in Jasenovac, and the descendants of the Jasenovic victims today make up a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who in the war did what they could to put them away, protect and feed them. Kragujevac as well as the royal victims, victims of the New Sad raid as well as many other tragedies on Serbia's soil in World War II should be honored with dignity. Jasenovac is already our universal symbol, which he recognized as such in 1992, and we can be proud of that law. There is no contradiction between Kragujevac and Jasenovac, and it is unnecessary to make them subject to controversy and debate. It is primarily necessary that we gather around the site of the crash and unite, such as our newlyweds united in the Heavenly Empire of the Patriarch of Serbia's cabinet. It is evident from this address by the Patriarch gentleman that even he did not mention the largest Serbian site after Jasenovac, which was mentioned by the lady's death camp system, with the centre of liquidation in the village of Jadovno, which, as I have already said, preceded Jasenovac. So Jasenovac is just a continuation of the work of Jadovno, as Italians closed Jadovno on 21 August 1941. The remaining survivors of the campers were transferred to the new Jasenovac assembly camp. We already know a lot about him. So the point of my amendment is to... (President: I'm sorry, MP, it's not your fault, but I have to interrupt you. I'd like to ask my colleague, Veronica Radett, to be bothered by her phone call, although it's not prescribed whether or not she can, but I think she's not allowed to. Excuse me, MP. ) Therefore, the point of my amendment is to place Jadovno as the first major deathplace of the Serbian people, Roma, Jews, as well as Croats and Yugoslavs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64130	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64131	Ladies and gentlemen, as a contribution to the arguments made by counterpart Nikola Žutic for which this amendment should be accepted, I will list some information showing the situation of the crime committed against the Serb people and which is why it is necessary to establish a day of memory of the victims of the Jasenovac camp and the Ustasha terror in general. In 1941, 28 thousand Serbs lived in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the first two years of the war, 22,500 were killed. A system of camps in Gospić, the Saranovska Cave, Jadovno and other sites – killed 42,000 Serbian civilians. Drakulic Mojke and Sarovac near Banja Luka – 7 February 1941, killed 2,315 Serbian civilians, among them 513 children. No gun was fired in these villages that day, all killed with a knife and a mallet. Šushnar and Sanski Most – 9,500 slaughtered Serbs, only on Ilindan 1941 – 2,862 slaughtered. Prebilovci, eastern Herzegovina – 4,100 slaughtered Serbs from Stolac and Capljina, 510 women, children and old people were inserted into the Šurmanovac Cave near Medjugorje. Prigorice near Gacka, Christmas 1941 – 180 women, old men and children slaughtered after the Slavic sophroma. Garavica near Bihac, in the summer of 1941 – about 12,000 killed. Grubisino Polje, October 1942 – 3,000 killed. Clay, the church of the birth of the Holy Mother, the night between 12 and 13 May 1941 – 800 slaughtered, survived only Ljubo Enaq. Jama Jagonjača near Trebinj in Popovo Polje, June 1941 – 200 infused Serbs. Livno, in 1941 – killed 5,000. Only on Firenen Maria in the outdoor villages was around 2,100 Serbs slaughtered and thrown into the pits. The cave Prolog – 466 people, survived only the grandfather of the Verice Radeta, Ilija Radeta. Cave Kameshnica – 256. At school in Chelebić slaughtered 370. The Razvala Cave – 80 children were inserted. Bikuša Cave – 46 children. Plant Korićka cave, night between 3rd and 4th June 1941 – 134 inserted. The Borova Glava Cave, between Livn and Kupres, Ilindan 1941 – 213 Serbs, without a bullet fired and without a knife, all killed with a mallet. Jama Raičev's hair, Blagaj near Kupres, my hometown, Ilindan 1941 – 43 hairs collected from meadows and thrown into the pit, among them six brothers Marić. Ladies and gentlemen, for the end of this argument, I remind you once again that there is a list of 19,432 children who were killed in the Jasenovac camp. They were killed by Ustasha butchers competing on who was able to slaughter more Serbian children, Serbian civilians. The terrible competition was won by Zagreb Faculty of Law student Petar Brzica, who managed to slaughter 1,352 Serbian civilians in one day, among them the most children. Finally, I'll read you the age of 19,432 angels: 1,687 14-year-olds, 1.155 13-year-olds, 1,525 12-year-olds, 965 11-year-olds, 1,324 10-year-olds, 1,095 nine-year-olds, 1,250 eight-year-olds, 1,316 seven-year-olds, 1,417 children of six years of age, 1,428 boys and girls of five years of age, 1,544 four-year-olds, 1,591 children of three years of age, 1,493 children of two years of age, 1,1,1,52 children of one year and 495 boys and girls who had several days or several months. I repeat, about a million Serbian people have been killed in the crimes of Ustasha terror, and the state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people have no day of memory of these innocent victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64132	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Article 3 of the amendment is based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister, Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64133	We accept this amendment from the Committee because we believe that it sublimes several amendments proposed. We also heard in Mr. Žutić's discussion that it would be appropriate for this law to be marked on April 22nd, the beginning of the breach of the camp in Jasenovac, and that this represents a symbolic payoff to all the victims, Serbs, Roma, Jews and all others, on the largest site in this area. For these reasons, we accept the amendment of the Committee and we believe that it will complete the essence and content of the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64134	Thank you. I find that, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Rasim Ljajic has accepted the amendment. The National Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. Anyone else want a word? (No) Natasa Jovanovic, who has the word, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64135	Mrs. Komic, how much time is left for the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group? (President: eight minutes. () Total? (President: Yes. ) Mr Ljajic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party believes it should be marked on October 21st as the day of remembrance on October 21st, 1941, when in my native Kragujevac, the German occupationer committed the slaughter of innocent civilians, children, students of the Kragujevac High School, and that this should be the day when all Serbian victims are remembered in all Serbia. Given that we have submitted that October 21st is a workmark, I will look back on the current way of marking October 21st, which mainly concerned my town of Kragujevac and, unfortunately, this year's greatest abuse by state officials, in particular Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic. In addition to being born and living in Kragujevac, I was also a student of the elementary school "21st October" and from the period when the event "Great School class" was held, so since 1971, but also later, when I went to elementary school, our school was one of the organizers together with the Kragujevac High School and the town of Kragujevac to hold the event "Great school class", where we, along with the lyrics of Desanka Maksimović, Mire Alečković, spoke Milos Žutić, Mire Stupice, Svetlane Bojković, we children of this choir, participated in this event, as well as others who, above all, belonged to the Kragujan theatre "Tatar Joakim Bujić" or the school sections. Josip Broz, who is the most responsible for the great sufferings of the Serbian people, we talked about this the day before when the Rehabilitation Act was, and for the killings of a huge number of communists and Serbs and Serbs of the Roman Catholic and Muslim religions, never did what Boris Tadic did. So, Broz, who did everything that the Serbian people in that SFRY, by helping the Shiptars and preparing them for what they are doing today, took our southern province, by encouraging Ustasha leaders of that time, the communist age, who made another genocide over the Serbian people in 1991, so he never showed up as such a great leader, the marshal, as they liked to call him, at "The Great School Hour" to give a speech. I am saying this, Mr. Ljajic, for the sake of personal experience and for the fact that this is the way that many historians, as well as the curator of our museum, Mr. Brkic, as well as historian Manceslav Glisic and many others, have written about it since 21 October 1941, from seven hours to two hours in the afternoon of 2,782 civilians, and among them 217 minor children and 60 students of the Kragujevac High School. It has never happened that those communists, such as Bakaric, Dolanc and others, are abused in such a way as "The Great School Hour" and do their own kind of political promotion, which, to the disdain of my fellow citizens, was done this year by Boris Tadic. This must never happen again, no matter what authority in Serbia, who its president is and who the statesmen are in Serbia, because it offends human dignity, and above all the hypocrisy of Boris Tadic and all those messages that the media have conveyed, which he said at the beginning of the ceremony, that is, at the beginning of the event "The Great School Hour". He then said that I quote, on this day we call upon the memory of all who died in the fight for freedom and refuse to remember anyone who worked with the occupier on our behalf. What's he doing today? He co-operates in Serbia with the Kosovo and Metohija occupier, on behalf of those who are the employers to him personally and to this owner. How is he not ashamed? He called on Serbs yesterday to stay away from the barricades, and only a month ago at Big School class... (President: National MPs, please on the subject of the agenda and on the amendment. ) The topic of the agenda is the shame your party president and the president of the state gave to my town of Kragujevac and the citizens of Serbia. (President: National MPs, you have not submitted an amendment on shame, nor an amendment on the actions of elected persons in other institutions, but have submitted an amendment to which you wish to amend Article 1’s position in Article 5, so I ask you on the subject of the agenda. Here you go. I do not want to thank you, because it is my right to use further time on the amendment of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Comic, then think about how this intervention of yours is going to be treated by my fellow citizens who are monitoring this transmission. Not only them, but also the citizens of Shupca, the citizens of Podrinja, the citizens of the Sword, the citizens of the Kings, where Vermakt decided to use such retaliation for one killed German soldier to shoot 100 innocent civilians and for the wounded German soldier 50 civilians. It's a really painful memory and something that no one should ever abuse for any political purpose. These people, historians, such as Dr. Žutić, his colleague, mentioned earlier, Mr. Glisic and the curator of the Kragujevac Museum, Mr. Brkic, gave their contribution to the lighting of truth and crime that took place in Kragujevac through their scientific works. It is something that should be a reminder to all future generations, and to you who are in power and the President of the Republic, whom I have the right to mention here, because he has been elected by citizens, should be a reminder that, apart from having to face who were the enemies of the Serbian people throughout history, you must face what is now. The present is that German soldiers are shooting at the innocent Serb people in Jarinj and Brnjak, that they want to banish the last Serb from Kosovo and Metohija. If they could, Mr. Ljajic, do so openly, they would still be retaliating today, as fascists did in 1941 in Kragujevac and throughout Serbia. It is their goal and their policy, to destroy the Serbian people and that we cannot survive in our hearths and fight for our freedom. The symbol of defiance, the monument of V3 fallen students and professors of Kragujeva High School and other monuments and shoe cleaners, symbol of defiance and resistance, is what we are proud of in our Kragujeva Memorial park, as well as monuments in Kralje and in Šapac, in Machva and other parts of Serbia that should be a guideline to future generations that only the fight for free Serbia, for the freedom of the Serbian people is something sacred. We have been taught by our President Vojislav Seselj since the founding of our party. He is from The Hague, you know very well, for nine years fighting for our freedom, but we will continue and every child born today in Kragujevac knows that only by respecting what our traditions are and bowing to the shadows of these innocent victims must fight for Serbia's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64136	There are two minutes left from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64137	Mr. Minister, October 21st is a synonym for Serbian casualties. October 21st is when Germany symbolically wanted to show the world that it simply wants the destruction of the Serb people. The Germans knew well what this Serbian people were like. They knew well and what resistance that little people could give them. It's unrecorded in the world that someone shoots 100 citizens for one of their own soldiers. It's unrecorded in history. They knew of the case when Belgrade's defenders defended our capital, and many of them were present at the time, when blood flowed down the streams of Dorcol, Terrace, etc. At that time, a message arrived that a smaller group of Arnauts had breached the border of Kožura. The Serbian command was in a great dilemma whether to continue to defend Belgrade or to go down. A small group of Chetniks Vuk Popovic, who went down and finished the job, has been set. The report has arrived, the job has been done, and there is no more arnautt in Serbia's territory. The commander knew that at the time, and the Germans knew it well, so did the communists, Joseph Broz, who knew and simply competed with Ustashas who would execute more Serbian heads, who would bleed more of the Serbs' hands. They did not lag behind after them, nor the Ustashas, nor the communists of Joseph Broz. When Dr Slobodan Jovanovic wanted to write a declaration in London in due time, condemning Ustasha crimes and for that declaration he did not want to sign the then Croatian Minister Josip Krncevic, and he asked him – why do you not want to sign, are we not brothers, to what is the answer – how much longer it takes to kill you to understand that we are not brothers? It was this Ustasha policy that neither the Ustashas gave up much time later. Joseph Broz's victims were told a lot about the Rehabilitation Act. I'm just saying that in four cuts, in Dragačevsky, Tržavska, Ljubački and Takovska, the Broz communists killed about 1,400 innocent people. It was a really difficult time for the Serbian people, Mr. Minister, when Serbian communists sang a song: "We have three of the biggest sons, Enver hoju, Tito and Stalin", in which they forced Serbs to sing: "Our Serbia is singing now to us to live a camel". This policy has led to what is happening today. That policy is, in fact, the idea of leading this government to the Serbs withdraw from the barricades at KIM. The idea is the idea led by both Boris Tadic and the idea, in fact, formally recognises the independence of the illegal state of Kosovo. He will know that he condemns the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64138	Anyone else want a word? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you understand correctly all the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. The point of all our amendments is to mark in Serbia those days that truly have fundamental ties to Serbian history, Serbian spirituality and Serbian culture. As for October 21st, it is absolutely acceptable for us to mark it as the day of memory of Serbian victims in World War II, but if you had chosen any other date you would not have made a mistake, because unfortunately, Serbian history in the 20th century, and especially during World War II, was extremely tragic. I'm glad you accepted Dr Nikola Žutić's amendment to mark April 22nd as the date of memory of the victims of the Jasenovac concentration camp. In Jasenovac, especially Serbs, were killed, but were largely Jews and Roma, and a number of Croats who opposed Pavelic's fascist regime suffered for their will. Because of history, because of the stenogram, because of the record and the citizens of Serbia, I want to say that in Jasenovac, people like Pavel Djurisic and Petar Baćovic were also killed. So the commanders of the Chetnic units from Montenegro, Herzegovina and eastern Bosnia were the last victims of the Jasenovac concentration camp. A large group of Chetnik elders, led by Djurisic, Baćovic, Zahari Ostojic, found her death in Jasenovac. Djurisic believed Montenegrin Ustasha Sekuli Drljevic that he would have a safe passage through NDH territory. Unfortunately for him, Sekula Drljević cheated on him. Paul Đurišic and his units, along with other Chetnik elders, were disarmed and sent to the Jasenovac concentration camp. Most likely, Pavle Djurisic ended it by being burned alive by the Ustashas and on his monument in the US, it says that Pavle Djurisic was burned alive by Serbian dusks on the defender of the country. What was also the intensity of the SRS, it is another way to look at the history of World War II at the premises of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia. We said that in the principle debate. It is unacceptable for us to mark July 7th as the date of the Serbian citizens' uprising against the fascist occupation, because on July 7th, and some political parties, unfortunately, still today mark the tragic date from Serbian history, because in fact, a fraternal war in Serbia began on that day, no fight against the Germans began. Historians agree, more or less, that by the end of August 1941 in Serbia, and that, above all, means in western Serbia, in Šumadia, there was no major fight against the Germans. The first great victory over the Germans was won on 31 August 1941, when the Chetniks, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Veselina Misite, released Loznica. Practically, it was the first great victory of Allied weapons ever in World War II in the fight against Nazism and the fight against Hitler. If there were a little more responsibility and courage in the government of the Republic of Serbia, I think that day had to find its place in the State Holidays Act. That date no one has any reason to be ashamed of, that's one big date. All the great European dates mark these great victories. This is our big victory in World War II. Since the early 1990s, the SRS has insisted that the date be marked with dignity in Serbia and that no memory of the brave officer, Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misitu, who was muscly killed after Loznica was released. So again, it happened that a Serb shot at a Serb. The gladness of Misita was not killed by the Germans, he defeated them but unfortunately did not escape the course of the people he believed to be on the same mission to fight the Germans. So he was killed by being killed from behind by a Partisan group while sitting in a local bar in the evening after Loznica was released. It's something that's tragic. As far as the SRS is concerned, we always advocate that a Serb never strike a Serb, we advocate Serbian national unity, especially today we advocate Serbian national unity when it comes to KIM, because there must be no divisions there. We must conclude, for who knows which time, that it is tragic that the president of the state, Boris Tadic, called on Serbs to remove themselves from the barricades in the north of KIM. These Serbs there defend not only themselves, their lives and their property, they defend the state of Serbia there. These living Serbs there are, in fact, the state institutions of Serbia. Anyone who's on barricades today, who's defending those spaces from what's called the so-called The Cypriot authorities from Pristina and the NATO Pact, in fact, are themselves a state-owned institution of Serbia in those areas. It would not be good for the message of the President of the Republic to be understood so that he removes all responsibility for what is happening at KIM and it would not be good for the President of the Republic to say – I invited you to step down from the barricade, you disobeyed me and now you are responsible for everything that happens in the coming days. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, both you and your colleagues from the ruling coalition, that the Serbs have organised themselves at barricades precisely because they do not support the regime's policy in Belgrade when it comes to KIM. (President: People's MP, I will ask you on the agenda, so the day of remembrance of the Serbian victims in World War II. I hope your exposure has no context for the victims, so please, on the subject of the agenda. ) Unfortunately, Mrs. Comic, there have been many Serbian victims, unfortunately, even today. I just want to take this opportunity to call on the government of Serbia once again, and the president of the Republic to reconsider their relationship with KIM because no serious state, and there were countries that were in a similar situation as Serbia, has sacrificed their people and has not sacrificed one part of their territory because of the promise that they might get a bid to join some kind of community of countries like the EU. Serbia would be the only and first country in international relations, which because of a mere promise that it might win EU bids, has given up one piece of its territory. No one, Mr. Minister, is going to appreciate us in the world, no one will treat Serbia as a respectable and serious state that holds to its dignity. This has not been done by any country that has joined the EU since 2004, and no country has been subject to this as a condition to join the EU and for the SRS it is unacceptable to accept such a condition in order to get a promise, and that does not mean that we will definitely get an EU bid, that we will get a positive opinion on that December 9th. And even if we do get it, is that worth giving up the people and the territory of KIM, because we are not giving up just KIM, so, Mr. Ljajic, we give up our Middle Ages? We have practically an anecdoted the Middle Ages in KIM, not only occupied territory and occupied the people, occupied the Middle Ages there, we are occupied with the memory of the great days of Serbian history when Serbia was indeed a successful and best country in the Balkans. Mr. Minister, we are also in the principle debate, that was the meaning of our amendments, pleading for the state holiday status to be granted on November 25th. At that time, the Grand National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slovenians in Novi Sad, under the leadership of a large patriot of Radicals, Jasa Tomic, made a historic decision to attach Banat, Baka and Baranja to the Kingdom of Serbia. It is indeed a big date for the SRS, and we believe that the decision of 25 November definitely solved the issue of Vojvodina as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, for the SRS, what the government has been doing since 2000 is unacceptable and especially intense since the adoption of the AP Vojvodina Statute, which we consider to be anti-constitutional and in fact represents a time bomb placed on the foundations of the Serbian state. It's only a matter of days before that bomb goes off. It may seem to some now that the day is far and will never happen, but I would like to remind you that everything in KIM 1981 began by not being satisfied with the food students of Albanian nationalities in the tables of the Pristina University Student Centre, and it ended so that Serbs today have to defend KIM with their naked lives against the Baptists and their allies from the NATO Pact. Also, we want to remind ourselves, here is the context of the historical circumstances of these November days, and that on 24 November, before the historic assembly in Novi Sad was held, the decision was made to join the Kingdom of Serbia, but, Mr. Minister, all of Smrem with Vukovar and Vinkovci, and on November 26th 1918, it was decided to join the Kingdom of Serbia, so that when the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians were formed, on December 1, 1918, Serbia entered that country together with Montenegro, Sremo, Banat, Backo and Baranja. It's a historical fact that's mostly silenced. We from the SRS and this time want to remind the citizens of Serbia of these big dates. It is a shame that the Serbian government missed out, whether out of ignorance, whether on purpose, whether for reasons of daily policy not to include at least one of these big dates in the amendments to the State Holidays Act. These dates absolutely deserve to be the national holidays of Serbia and every civilised country in Europe and out of Europe would also mark them as major national and national holidays. I urge you, Mr. Minister, to consider once again the arguments presented by the SRS on this bill, to think a little bit about the context of celebrating certain holidays in Serbia that have absolutely nothing to do with Serbian history, with the Serbian state, after all, with Christian spirituality and Christian culture, and neither with spirituality nor with culture nor with any major world religion, because the roots of both the 1st May and the roots of the New Year, moreover, have pagan and not Serbian and not Orthodox character, so it would be good to make a little difference if, in any future time, a change of this law is approached. What the SRS wants to subscribe to this occasion – it is a shame and it is tragic, no matter how important the Bill of State Holidays was, that we are not discussing KIM today, but are discussing national holidays. The SRS is using this opportunity to direct and repeat its appeal to the National Assembly, the Government of Serbia to urgently convene the National Assembly session, which will be dedicated to the current developments in KIM, because it is shameful for the state of Serbia, it is embarrassing at the end for all of us, primarily for the authority to discuss the situation in KIM yesterday, and for Serbs from the north of KIM to defend Russia's permanent representative in the Security Council, Vitala Curkin, and for the day of today's parliament of Serbia to be silent about the situation in KIM because you are allegedly waiting for this famous December 9th to be pardoned by the EU and to tell you – yes, you are fulfilling all the conditions to get candidate status, but at one terrible price that no serious state would pay, and that is to practically give up KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64140	Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic and the joint MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Since this is the last amendment in the search, does Minister Rasim Ljajic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64141	Very short. To thank all MPs who participated in this debate and especially those who proposed amendments and amendments to the text of amendments and additions to the Law on State and other holidays. We find all amendments very helpful. There were those who suggested that the current holidays be lifted from the list of national holidays calendars, there were those who proposed new dates and new holidays. It seems to me that we've managed to find the right measure, even though there was probably room for some holidays that were proposed here. We wanted to give meaning to all the proposed changes, to strengthen citizens' awareness of the importance of the greatest and highest national and national holidays. Also, increasing the number of days from eight to ten means that we are still below average, not just neighbouring and neighbouring countries, but also EU countries. We also achieved full consent, at least about one thing, and this is the introduction of the Day of Remembrance of all Serbian victims of a terrible crime committed on 21 October 1941 in Kragujevac, that there was no dilemma about it. I expect that in the voting day we will receive broad support for amendments to the Law on State and Other Holidays. Once again, I thank all the MPs who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64142	Thank you. Since we've completed our search in the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. I thank Minister Rasim Ljajic and his associates, and since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, details and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments in State Organies and State Services. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Simo Vukovic and Aleksandar Martinovic on the bill. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the service to call Minister Zoran Stankovic and his associates in the O.R. During today's work, Ministers Rasim Ljajic and Zoran Stankovic showed what it looks like when a member of the government behaves in Business, with Minister Stankovic coming earlier today, given today's work schedule both in the morning and in the afternoon part of the session. So, I'm opening a review of the bill in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be as correct as it's been since Mr. Rasim Ljajic was here to wait for the minister anyway. There are not many amendments to this bill, so let's try to convince the minister of the argument the SRS intends to make regarding this bill. We only have one amendment, which is the amendment I submitted. Mrs. Comic's request if we can wait for the minister, and I think he's in the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64144	Yeah, he's been in the building for an hour. He was there at 12:30, so we'll just wait for him to come out of the room to the assembly room. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64145	I thank Mrs Comic, it is truly pleasant to work in this parliamentary atmosphere, and I hope that this atmosphere will continue in the future and that they do not like the scenes with the punishment and warning of the MPs will no longer be seen here. So, Mr. SRS believes that this bill is essentially not good because it brings health care professionals down to manual workers who work in the mobile factory lane. It is unacceptable for us that health care professionals get paid according to effect because they need to treat living people. Health is practically the largest, and for many citizens, Serbia and the only resource, and the only wealth it has. If you from the government insist that the doctor gets paid against the number of patients he has examined, then the quality of health care will be minimised, of course at the expense of the patients themselves. We already have a situation now that in certain homes of health, therefore primary healthcare facilities are waiting very long for that initial review. Kids who are too cold today, who have the flu, if I don't say don't give God some serious illness, they have to spend all day in health care waiting rooms to be examined by the doctor. If you think you're going to speed up by making a doctor's salary according to the number of patients he's examined, then it's not good from the point of view of health, especially from the patient's own point of view, but it's not good from the point of view of any doctor's ethics and professional relationship with his job. The state of Serbia must take other measures to speed up the work of doctors and to speed up work in health institutions. It would be good to finally resolve many topics, many affairs, much so far taboo topics that existed in Serbian health, that those responsible for the collapse of Serbian health in the past 10 years are brought to justice and that we see what further measures should be taken to make the health system in Serbia work better. I'm not much of a health expert, but it seems to me that the greatest achievement of the former health minister is that. Your predecessor, the fact that he introduced a real patient protector. Everything else was mainly to the harm of the patients themselves, or the damage to Serbia's health system. Not to talk about those vaccines against swine flu, harassing citizens, spreading false news and panic, how all Serbian citizens will die if they don't vaccinate against swine flu, and then it turns out that it's just not true. So, it's not good if we bring health workers down to the level of factory workers and set them some standards, so that these standards depend on what their pay will be. That's the meaning of the SRS amendment. We simply want to protect the reputation of doctors in Serbia. We want to protect the rights of patients, to protect in the most basic sense people's health in Serbia, and we believe that what was proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in public bodies is not good. That Serbia will have additional levels of health care that are problematic for the team and otherwise will collapse further.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64146	Two minutes used by the MP's group. The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Aleksandr Martinovic should be accepted to delete the words "corrective coefficients" in Article 2. This member is not only contrary to the Labour Act, he is contrary to the interests of health workers. The proposed provisions, the introduction of a corrective coefficient, give the government the legal basis to adopt regulations which do not comply with the Labour Act. The regulation will change the salaries of health employees by reducing the base, from 100%, in the first year to 90%, and the second year to 80% of the base of the salary, so that the method of capitulation can be applied, because the IMF does not allow the increase of wages in healthcare. So, the mass of salary in healthcare remains the same, and in order to apply the method of capitulation it is necessary to do, or edit this area by means of a corrective coefficient. Medical employees will now have a 10% lower salary at the beginning, and the corrective coefficient is that from the remaining mass, the increase in earnings for those employees who have transferred the standard to the patient's head. This makes a logical conclusion that this means that the salaries of doctors and teams who transfer that standard will be at the height of the current salary, so they will appear to have a higher salary than those who have failed to meet the set standard. Another way to raise wages to those who have worked more than their colleagues is to keep these other salaries down to the legal minimum, because the IMF, as I said, does not allow the mass of wages to increase. This will create dissatisfaction and poor human relations of employees. I do not advocate a volunteer approach when determining the salaries of health employees, but I do not believe that the conditions for the percapita method to be applied are not defined because the performance parameters in primary health care have not been defined. This applies to one quarter of the healthcare staff, on the basis of which coefficients will also be determined for related diagnostic branches in secondary and tertiary health care. Patients and patients cannot be treated as moving tape objects in a factory by applying the principle of capitulation, i.e. The more patients, read: the head, the more the vascreative coefficient will reward, and the quality of this work in healthcare will be less important. I know from personal experience working in health care for 25 years that you can't always for objective reasons, no matter how hard the doctor tried, do what was planned. Such objective reasons often happen, for example, in dentistry, which you put on the sidelines of the health care system. These are missing materials used in dentistry, as it remains the least money in the health register. Not to mention that in working with children, especially preschool children, it's impossible to set some standard of dental curatives, because it happens to waste a lot of time convincing a child to agree to an intervention. Often such visits end without success and after several consecutive arrivals. In my work, I also had cases where I had to receive a patient, to do the necessary intervention without being able to record it in the daily patient protocol because the Republic Health Fund doesn't recognise me working through those standards he prescribed, so I happen to have to do part of a job that the Fund doesn't pay, so to speak, missionaryly. In other words, what is done cannot be charged, let alone by the percapitate method. It is simply not possible to apply in all sectors of health care the methods of capitulation and the corrective coefficient for wages. These changes do not support unions in health, both those who are representative and others, but have sent a circulatory letter to all MPs not to vote for these amendments to the law. They asked for a meeting with the Health and Family Committee. One delegation was adopted by the Committee on Health and Family in an extended composition. We have heard from them that this proposal is not in agreement with a private collective contract for health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, which accurately determines the elements for determining wages. They disagree with these changes and advocate the introduction of a labour force institute. All these objections were made at a meeting they had at the Ministry of Health, and they were told that such an amended law had to be adopted, even if they executed the hari kiri. Our proposal from the SRS is to withdraw this amendment and supplement the Law from the procedure because it will cause health problems, which are already burdened with various problems from reform attempts of corruption, etc. Stop listening to the IMF and the dying EU. In the past, the most severe punishment for the defendant was not shooting or hanging, but binding to a dead man. The condemned then gradually dies next to a decomposing corpse. A dead man is the EU, and Serbia is condemned. Let this authority connect with whoever it wants, but the citizens are aware who can get them out of the arms of the EU's death, which is only the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64148	Six minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. I apologize to MP Aleksandar Martinovic for the question of which time, since the SRS parliamentary group has authorised the People's MP Veritza Radet for this item on the agenda, so I apologize to you both. The authorised representative has 15 minutes. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a lot of this has been said by colleagues from the SRS about this law, and I'd like to add a few more things. You also stated to the Health Committee and here that you had inherited the Health Protection Act. You inherited one freak law, a law that is ultimately dehumanized and instead of making an effort to amend that law in a better way or to abolish it in some way, you are still supplementing it with such a punishable addition as the current bill that is before us. What are you doing with this law? Introduce, as you say, the captainate. It's the head. It's a Serbian word or a translation for the captainship. What do we get with that? As far as the head goes through the office, that's how much the doctor's gonna get paid. Don't you find that humiliating? It's humiliating for a young doctor and at all for a health care professional to have to chase, rush, think about it if they'll have breakfast, get out to rest or chase as many heads as possible through his office. Head, symbolically speaking, pass other parts of the body, all depending on the specialization. That's unworthy. It's unworthy of one profession as such. You first produced us with the past law into administrative workers and we had to fill out the mass of forms when the patient came, without being able to talk to him. Now, along with those forms, we need to hurry even more to get as many people through the office as possible. Mr. Stankovic, do you think the patient has come to talk to the doctor? He came to complain about his problems, that some of the things he read on the Internet or anywhere, he asked if they were true or not, and to bring him his troubles with the words he knows and the way he can bring it out. Not everyone knows how to deal with their problems in a concise and short way. Does a doctor have time for that if he's working on his head? There's no time for that, he's got to hurry up as much as he can, expedit him by saying he's out of the office to come next, to kick his ass and get a bigger salary. That's inadmissible. As far as SNS is concerned, she's in favour of withdrawing this law. The amendment that Mr. Martinovic made just now cannot fix this, because the coat of arms is born and remains. Therefore, it is not important to adopt or not to adopt the amendment, the only thing that needs to be done is to withdraw this law from the procedure and to deal with the new health care law. One more thing I'd like to add to this, this is how we put patients in an unequal position. Patients who don't have money sitting in the waiting room waiting to get in line, and patients who are in better material condition will come to your vampire clinics that you continue to support or go to a private who doesn't work on that principle of head care. Is that how we put patients in an unequal position? Yes, we bring them into an unequal position at the alleged request of the IMF and the World Health Organization. As far as the World Health Organization thinks of Serbia, we have seen it in both bombings and vaccines, and in general, in relation to us. It's not very well-intentioned. I'm asking you why you support these freak changes in the Health Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64150	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Stankovic, I think that I really need to say a few words about this law and some of the problems that the SRS really thinks should have been a priority for both the government and the citizens and the institutions, compared to what we're talking about today. That's what I'm going to try to justify, or I'm going to make these arguments one way and that's what the SRS is, and here's what this is about. As far as this law is concerned, don't expect the SRS to understand that you inherited something bad and dared to come to the Assembly to defend this law. We personally believe that you should have shown a little more courage and that this document, which is objectively inherited, torn and thrown away, is not because we believe that in health care today the principles and model of functioning of the health care system should remain the same. It really needs to change, but the changes that are now contained in these changes and additions are really insignificant, they are really pointless, and we deeply believe that you share the position of the SRS, that this, in practice, will not be able to be implemented in quality and adequate. As we believe the state has much bigger and more serious problems, from KIM, to objective problems and major health problems, we also feel and we fear that it will come very quickly both day and time, when our criticism about this law will be confirmed in practice as accurate and meaningful. What's even worse, which we believe you, as a minister who will be forced to enforce the law on which you will commit on the day of his adoption, will eventually realize that this really doesn't make any sense. Why am I saying that? There are no criteria, whoever comes up with them and whoever makes them, that in this stage of the development of the health care system and in general health care in Serbia, this problem, or this model of captainship, is just. What will you manage, quantity or quality? And one and the other criteria to consider through sublaws can't be rightly established. That's the SRS' position. If you manage the quantity, how will you do it? And you gave examples yourself, and the SRS mentioned them in the principle debate. There is no adequate implementation in the small environments, such as Bosilegrad, Shops, dissociated municipalities, dissociated places, even if you appreciate that there are three patients there a day, it is not the same trouble to visit three patients a day in the dissociated Shop and Bosilegrad or municipalities where you do not even cover certain places like our Surduce or your Vladica Khan, you know what it is and what the problem is to go to Matkatica, to Dikav, to the remote village and to provide health care for people who are objectively living there. Even if you respect the criteria that three patients should go there to see each other, you know what the cost is. When you go to the health centres to ask that population to cover themselves, they tell you – we have no money, we have no economic justification to cover these people. Local executives tell you – we can't finance that these people are coming back, and he has to come one day, to schedule a checkup, so that the next day to do a review, so that the third day comes, God forbid, to take medications and it costs all of it, and at the same time, health insurance pays. Then when you add it all together before, it costs a lot of money to know how many times it costs. But I don't want to make a move on what I want to talk about. It's impossible at this level of development of our health care system, once you've managed the quantity, it's impossible to be fair to the end. That's one thing. And by quality if you handle yourself and you can't be fair to the end, because never the quality of health services and protection will be identical for one or 100 patients in the Shop and in Surdulica, Belgrade and Novi Sad. These are the findings that give for the right of the SRS, the space to criticize you for this, why you accepted it. Serbia, when it comes to healthcare, has much more serious and much more important problems. Look, Mr. Minister, what they pushed you for. The 2010 budget will not change. Maybe it's also a technical mistake. How is it possible to be something just and no additional means will be determined for this? The same volume and the same level of funding that has been allocated in the Republic of Serbia's health care budget will now only be distributed differently. Who's supposed to accept that? I repeat, the SRS is not for a doctor who doesn't work to receive the same salary as the one who gets killed from work. It's a lot easier today in health care and your inspection to determine. Go through the books, the protocols, and see what kind of doctor he's going through on a daily basis. But the question arises – does one who is 50, relative to the one who has five reviews daily provide a quality health care service? This is not at all a question that can be solved through three members of the law. This is a question for the SRS to reform the entire health system. The Serbian Radical Party monitors that you have much more important and important problems to solve. You yourself said the last time in a principle debate – thousands of unannounced health workers. Who, Minister, will answer for it? I don't say guilty, but someone has to be responsible for it. Someone has to, except for the SRS, in this country to point a finger at those people who are guilty. This is what your political officials, gentlemen of power, are responsible for, your officials who you have placed in the post of director, who, without any valid criteria, have become directors of homes of health, hospitals, health centres, whatever you want. And you are yourselves witnesses today how unscrupulously they shake hands in their struggle only for places and functions. They don't choose the means, they don't choose the way, and they don't care how much this will cost both Serbia and the health insurance system to get into the position of directoral, principal or I don't know how much I run a health care office. These are individuals and it is a minority, but the political system of this country has enabled them, the political environment of this country has allowed them to master, unfortunately, health care and to create a very ugly and negative picture of health in Serbia. You're also aware of the great weaknesses we have. I like to talk about southern Serbia, because it is absolutely forgotten. There is no sector and segment of our lives and of our economic and social or social environment in which we are not abandoned and forgotten. Mr. Minister, 500 patients on an annual level of health care from the southern Serbia area are looking for and accomplishing in Bulgaria, Sofia. Now these people who have been seen in Bulgaria may resent the SRS, but we ask the gentleman who is ten years in power - what is this about? These people pay for health insurance, they pay for health insurance on a regular basis, but it takes them a year to go to Nis. Do you know how much they're doing in Sofia? In three days, and they solve it for free. They're free of charge to Sofia, they're free of health care in Sofia. Who's driving them from the Serbian state? The government is pushing them who are not seeing and solving adequate problems, but is dealing with these things, like a capitation right now. Will the front desk solve the waiting lists? He won't. But waiting lists can solve assets that are stolen and robbed, instead of stealing and robbing and going through embezzlements and spilling into other people's pockets, could be adequately invested in health care. There's a problem. No one here asks anyone to invent hot water or potholes. It's all under our noses and everything. That's how it works for the SRS, and you could handle it. Under what agreement do people achieve health care in Sofia for free? Based on the agreement of the local self-government and military-medical academy in Sofia. Guys, it's an emergency. Someone is very tendingly forcing citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to see the Republic of Serbia as their mother but rather as their stepmother. We can't get mad at people who wait a year to operate on hips in Nis or Vranj, and that costs them no idea how much, if in 10 days they can solve it in Sofia for free. Are these people your fault? No, they're not. It is the government's fault that considers this to be another person's problem, not the government's problem and those institutions. It is the state that is breaking the law on alleged capitulation, and is not dealing with essential health problems in the Republic of Serbia. That's the problem. Instead of throwing away, you could have dealt with this problem properly in the last 10 years, and you didn't do it. You didn't do it because you think Bosilegrad is far from Nemina 11. No one has ever written how a citizen from Bosilegrad, Shop, Surdulice or Vranja feels when he comes, God forbid, in a secondary or physical institution to seek help. It is an honor to each and every individual and exception to doctors and health care professionals and all those involved in this health care system. But you know very well what there is and what phenomena. There are great people, but unfortunately, the impression of health isn't based on these people, it's because of the bastards. Where's the state control function? It's not just about health care, it's about school. Hundreds of students from Sofia from Bosilegrad are going to study in Sofia for free. Ministers, a Bulgarian student to study in Sofia, has to deposit 3,200, I think, left and 1,600 euros, respectively. For people from Serbia, insisting on the president of the Bosilegrad municipality, they pay nothing. And why are you throwing it away? (President: Please, no direct communication and no throw. As European ultrafanatics, you shouldn't mind. And you're not? I'm sorry. Minister, the problems are serious. I don't expect them to get rid of each other overnight, nor could the SRS get rid of them overnight. But we believe there is no will, nor does the government have the capacity and the political legitimacy to solve it. You just had a chance, you spent 10 years, the system of health insurance and protection is worse than it was inherited. It's just worse and we all feel it. Systemic reforms are necessary, concrete measures and state reactions, state authorities to protect the interest of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia regardless of nationality. What now, we should be angry with the Bulgarians for being able to do this, because the Serbs can't? It's idiotic. For me, the Serbian citizen -- a Serbian citizen -- was Bulgarian, was Roma, Hungarian or Serbian. They were left by the state, whoever they were. And the obligation of the state is to be more responsible and more caring towards them if necessary. That's how the SRS sees it. Serbs from Belgrade cannot guard Bosilegrad, but Bulgarians in Bosilegrad should keep him in Serbia. That's how we experience things. It's our political projection of state and government functions. And that's how we manage when we criticize all of this. We think that there are a lot of other things that you need to do before this, and only when conditions are created in the country, is one that is eventually rewarded by effect or not rewarded. In health care nothing changes like this and it won't work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64152	It was used 15 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64153	Ladies and gentlemen, I support this amendment by Mr. Alexander Martinovic for the reason that the solution whose erasure is proposed by the amendment to the law - Labour Act, Article 104 paragraph 3. Another reason is that the proposed legal solution will reduce the quality of healthcare throughout Serbia. Since the doctor's salary will depend mostly on the number of examinations in the future, whether I admit it or not, the work of a large number of doctors will turn into a race for patients. This will result in shorter checks. The average physician should spend at least 20-30 minutes on the patient's basic examination. We already have a situation for doctors to escort patients from the office after five or ten minutes. Of course, the exams will be more superficial. I'm afraid there will be abuse. What will these abuses be viewed in? In that the doctors who are lax about money will use this legal provision and will schedule medical examinations, checkups, and when that is not necessary. It's a reality. All the analyses that are being carried out, all the research published and done by the Ministry of Health show that the degree of corruption in health care is very high. It's one of the social areas where the level of corruption is greatest. We're witnessing that there's practically no week without any kind of health affair coming up. I don't think this amendment to the law will solve two of the biggest problems in this area. The first problem is too many differences that exist within the same state body, when it comes to monthly incomes. These differences are astounding and difficult to explain by any criteria. You have municipalities in Serbia, we recently had in one daily newspaper a table of monthly receipts of the highest officials in certain municipalities, so we could see that there are municipalities and cities where presidents and other officials receive up to 150 thousand dinars per month. On the other hand, you have a case here in the Serbian Parliament, you have workers in these municipalities who receive 15 thousand dinars a month. I find that inexplicable. So there's no such difference in business, there's no difference in knowledge, there's no difference in qualifications that can justify that someone in one municipality has a higher salary than the other worker in the municipality. We recently had information that the governor of the National Bank is receiving a salary of about 650,000 dinars. That's six and a half thousand euros. On the other hand, you have the fact that ministers receive a salary of about 130 thousand dinars. It is not normal for the governor of the National Bank, no matter who he is, to receive five times the salary of a minister, from the president of the state, no matter who is in power. (Chairman:The People's Parliament, I ask you – on the subject of the agenda. When and if there's a pay topic in all state authorities, then this will make sense, but now on the subject of the agenda. ) The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services is on the agenda. I am now talking about what is the biggest problem, and that is the problem of large and drastic pay gaps and that is the problem that this law will not solve. The next thing I want to point out is a fact, which is official data, that 70,000 people in this country have monthly incomes greater than a thousand euros. Why? Because there are about 5% of civil servants among them. On the other hand, we have an army of 2,000 people employed by state authorities and public services who receive the guaranteed amount monthly and are among the 700,000 citizens of Serbia who, according to official statistics, are living below the poverty line. Yesterday I was talking about cops who have to deal with criminals who take... (President: The People's Parliament I reminded you that you should speak on the subject of the agenda. I also remind you now that no MP can submit an amendment to a member of the law which is not subject to the amendment and the addition of the law, and that we are currently in search of details and amendments submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, which is said to be deleted in Article 2 in the new Article 4l. Please, on the subject of the agenda, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to do so. ) I apologize, this is a law on the salaries of civil servants, currently it applies to healthcare workers, to health workers, however, this same law and the same criteria will apply to employees in all other state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64154	People's MP, I'm warning you now. So, you're saying yourself right now is about salaries in health care, let's say we're currently applying the Rules of Procedure and you're currently obliged to talk about the subject of the daily beam. If you feel that I will participate with you together in violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which oblige us, you will talk about the current subject of the agenda, and I will remind you at the moment, then I must inform you that this will not be an accident. So either the subject of the agenda, or you and I are currently doing what the Rules of Procedure obliges us to do. Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64155	I'd say two things if you'd let me and if I had the right to do it. First of all, I personally consider myself in a certain way offended, according to the Rules of Procedure. I highly appreciate Mr. Stevanovic's eloquence and his exposure so far, however, I am not a Eurofanatic and I find it offensive, precisely because I am not. Whether we enter Europe or not, it's not up to me, it doesn't depend on whether I'm in or out. I'm personally against it, I'll vote for it if my party asks me to, but I'm personally against it. Therefore, I find it offensive to call me Eurofanatic. That's one thing. Two, why did I throw it? I violated the Assembly's discipline when I said it was a Bulgarian national minority. This applies precisely to the Bulgarian national minority, it happens in Vojvodina with the Hungarian national minority, it happens with the Romanian national minority, it's the government and the state's interference in our affairs, it's a political thing, not a health care aid to our people. Unfortunately, that's what the Cypriots do with Kosovo, they go to Kosovo. We couldn't figure that out. By supporting such other things, we have come to a situation that we have now come to with KIM and the Shiptars. This country should prevent, not stimulate and allow, a group of people belonging to a neighbouring country to be treated for free in that country, for purely political reasons, not for philanthropy and for helping these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64156	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha and the People's Messenger Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64157	I'll leave the word to Mr. Stevanović. It's probably a replica. (President: The People's Messenger, the Chairman, gives the word and takes away the word. Do you want a word? Here you go. ) Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of Serbia, I am talking about Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic's amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law which he requested to be deleted in Article 2 or in the new Article 4a in the first sentence of Article 3a: 'corrective coefficients'. What is the issue in this article, and why is this correction in terms of erasure? From Mr Martinovic's explanation, it is clear why, and I will try several elements to point to the financial aspect and the legal aspect of this terminology used here. It says in Section 3 – The government determines corrective coefficients. This is a legal term that does not mean anything in financial terms because for the first time in the legal system, a corrective coefficient is met. He's known in financial law, but here he's not clear enough, and not clear enough positions, particularly financial. What exactly will the government bring? What are the corrective coefficients? When we talk about financial law, you probably, Minister, were thinking about part of the coefficients in terms of increase, what allows us both the legal system and the economic financial opportunities in which health and economy in general and society are operating. We have more in the legal system of laws that define this area and you have to move in that area. With this law, you can't change the coefficients or the corrections. Why? Because you've introduced an institute, the first Budgetary System Act, we're talking to the Ministry, and the rights stemming from the Budget System Act. We have a budget law that also defines certain elements and some other laws that bind you. The Accounting Act, etc. Why did Mr. Martinovic ask for a erasure? Because the government cannot act, it cannot bring and change those coefficients, or correct them. He can't, there's no legal basis. The system law is the law on the budget system. It defines coefficients, height, shift and increase. No government, no legal authority, no budget, no budget law. Introduce more what is problematic in this article, introduce reward elements through the work effect. That's what I said in principle. Here you are introducing a working effect which, from the point of view of the ministry and how you will introduce it, is problematic, but you are introducing it into system law, the Law of Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. If you enter this without any word that this applies only to the award of healthcare professionals, and this is the formulation in this article, it automatically applies to all others. To what others? This is defined in the basic law in Article 1. The President of the Republic, in accordance with these amendments and additions, must be paid in accordance with the work effect. He has to account and say – I've made so many meetings, so many elements, etc., I'm looking for an increase in my salary based on what I've achieved. Who else does it apply to? On the President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, the work effect is thus written in this bill. To the President, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, President and Vice-President of the Permanent Working Body of the National Assembly, Members of the National Assembly at permanent work at the National Assembly... (President: People's Parliament, please on the subject of the agenda. And you and I know very well that what you're saying is neither the topic of the agenda nor any analogy can be made from the members who are in the proposal to amend and supplement the law that is under review. Please draw up your presentation, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that it is within the agenda theme. ) The amendment refers to erasing the corrective coefficient, as incomplete, unclear, and in the financial right of the unknown term. We don't know what that term will cover. That's why we're asking for his erasure. This is what you say in your explanation, i.e. the Government's opinion that this amendment is not accepted with the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 4a of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services is given legal basis for the government to regulate the elements for the billing of salaries of health care professionals. The government has no legal basis, regardless of this, the legal basis lies in the Budgetary System Act and Budget Law. There's no authority for the government anywhere. You can do it with this law, but it's a system law that, again, I'm talking about the consequences that it's going to cause. If the Government determines health workers, as you have predicted here, the Government shall establish corrective coefficients for the Ministry and then for all other ministries, from the President of the Republic to the last, as stated in this law, employed in the organisation of compulsory social security. It's one of the traces of a legal event that stems from a legal formulation, as you listed here. Furthermore, you say in your explanation – as one of the elements of the salary calculation, corrective coefficients are also prescribed. Where are they prescribed? In what legal act are they prescribed? You say further – by erasing these words, it would be impossible to arrange a system of salaries for healthcare professionals. I guess the system law requires coefficients. Or aren't they prescribed? Where do you have, in your home law, in the 2001 law, where do you have corrective coefficients? You don't have anywhere. You don't have any other laws. You have collective agreements, but you're erasing the provisions of a collective contract, and you can't do that and you can't do that. The trail that you started with the general collective agreements continued with both special and individual collective agreements. Since you have signed a general collective agreement, which you do not apply, in the case of a specific and individual, normal, characteristic absence of a central, vital, basic collective contract, you have no further legal trail. Therefore, you can do as you do. It's not good and it's not good in one system law to throw in only one narrow action that you're trying to solve certain health problems. You can't and you can't do it like that. Obviously, what the people say, where logic ceases, there is Serbian rule. Don't do it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64158	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Dragan Stevanović has the word, and the People's MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64159	Mrs. Komic, I picked up Mr. Mijatovic's replica earlier. I'm not saying this for the sake of time or order, but for the content of what I intend to say. (President: You have no right to a replica, you have the right to use time. I have listened very carefully to your presentation and to the People's MP Predrag Mijatovic. You set an example of Serbian citizens being treated in Sofia, and he also made a comment. You have time at the disposal of the parliamentary groups, and so does he. Here you go. All right. In my discussion, I really didn't want to offend anyone. The fact that I told one MP that he was a Eurofanatic, I handled myself exclusively with the political views of his bosses. What is good in this whole discussion is that the SRS has managed to force another individual to admit that it is against the EU. One very logical question arises, if this individual is in agreement with the policy of the SRS, what is he doing in the lines he sits in? We call on him to join the fight against the SRS against both the EU and all those who cultivate this policy and heritage. As far as the story we've been talking about, health care, what's important is to say that the SRS doesn't want to share citizens with Bulgarians and Serbia, but wants to try its discussions and its policies, until it changes power, to force the government to set up different system institutions and state policy. What's the problem? The point of the problem is to treat yourself in Sofia for free, you must be part of the organized group. When these citizens go there organised, their transport there is free, and that transport is refinanced by the funds of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of a municipality financed by the Republic of Serbia, or all of its citizens. It is an appeal by the SRS to the weakness of the system, the weakness of institutions and the need to change the state policy and the attitude of individuals in politics towards public and general interest. So, the SRS is urging the state to change its attitude towards citizens of any nationality, from the border area, from the border municipality, not to achieve its protection of rights and freedom beyond the border, but above all in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64160	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Vjerica Radeta has a word, so the MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64161	Ladies and gentlemen, when we received a year-and-a-half ago in the assembly procedure the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, we thought in the SRS that the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services was really fundamentally changing, and we thought, as we do today, that it would be good and that it was actually necessary. Because wages in public authorities and public services are not well distributed, there are dramatic differences in the level of salary from lowest to highest and certainly is the case in this case, and in the case of part of the budget users, in this case health care. The fact is, and the truth is, I expect the minister to agree, really necessary to change this law essentially, to create conditions to increase profits from a large number of budget users. When I say a large number, I mean the ones that we in the SRS believe really need this society and this country. It is certainly necessary to increase salaries in health care, education, judicial administration, police, in the state administration in that part that is not party state administration, but which is an effective state administration and local self-government in the service of citizens, if it exists in Serbia today. There is no, unfortunately, or there is a very small percentage, because you have led everything under a party cap and who is not a member of the party in power, if it is eventually found at work, so you have failed to resign, then it is marginalized there somewhere in the corner and receives some minimum wage, and those who have set up a party in power have a salary that will not be regulated by this Article 2, or that will exceed this Article 2a of the proposal of this law and with this corrective coefficient that you are proposing and without that coefficient, which we are proposing. Because it's just that you don't care about law enforcement. You know well and the general public knows, it's a public secret, which are all health problems. How do you hire doctors? You know, Minister, everyone knows that. All young doctors know, depending on where he lives or where he might possibly work. A young doctor can't get a job today if he doesn't have a strong, strong relationship or pay someone between 2,000 and 5,000 euros. That's, unfortunately, that's it. You know, you have health care homes today, hospitals, a big problem with the lack of personnel, with people who have been paid badly. On the other hand, you have a large number of young doctors, nurses, but they can't get a job. Who are the specialists today? Did he measure that he was a great student, that he did a good job? First, the problem is how to get to practice. He has to be a member of the G17 so he can finish that internship somewhere. Then they'll only get the specials if he's an activist and a member of the G17 and he's wearing a badge on the lapel. It's something that's simply a fact and you can't possibly, you can, you might try to convince us here that it's not true or that maybe you don't know, but convince the citizens of Serbia, convince those young doctors and their parents in what we talked about in principle about this law, especially what Dr. Paja Momchilov told you. These days, since we've talked about it, to this day, you've had no information show of not showing up one of the doctors who says that we're right about what we've proposed to you through this amendment, and that you're wrong to try to introduce this kind of payout and billing for doctors. It's not true what you said about complete health care. The truth is, this applies to one quarter of the health care workers, especially primary care doctors. In the meantime, I have heard and confirmed our position at least five or six times in these few days, from the people of the profession, who have nothing to do with our party but who appear in the media, and as soon as they appear in the media and are enabled to do so, they are much closer to you than we are. They simply speak what is true and say what they cannot accept as a solution in Article 4a which you have proposed here, as you have confirmed the whole story by adopting the amendment of counterpart Sima Vukovic. Well done, you're party friends, that's one part of the story, but it can't be appropriate for accepting or not accepting the amendment. That is why it did not occur to you to accept the amendment that Aleksandar Martinovic submitted on behalf of the SRS. The problem, which exists in health care when it comes to employment, is something very much about buying jobs for the party that has proposed you to be minister. You sometimes say you're not a member of the G17 plus party, what they're called now, but you're seeing each other at their party meetings. Anyway, they did suggest you. There's a lot to this party that's about hiring with money. Two days ago in Rasinski County, I heard that, say, in "The First Five-year-old," no one can get a job unless they give 2,500 euros and that everyone who hires has to wear the badges you're wearing from G17. It has nothing to do with this, but since you're from that party or someone they suggested, talk to Verica Kalanovic, because they say she's in charge of it. So we think doctors should receive bigger salaries, not just doctors, but full medical staff and all the budget users I just listed, not to repeat. We specifically, and when we talk about budgets and budget rebalances, we'll tell you today, and we'll tell you again when we talk about the draft budget, we from the SRS tell you how you can provide funds to adequately pay people who need to do their job top-notch. There must be no mistake in the doctor's business. You're a doctor and you know it. Unfortunately, at least once a week we have in the media how someone paid off a doctor's mistake with their lives. We're not getting into whether it's true or not. This should be examined by certain competent authorities. The fact is that it appears so often and that mostly you from the Ministry have no denials. That then leads to a logical conclusion that it is obviously true. What did we propose and what do we propose? To provide money, not only for the salaries of doctors, ministers, but to equip the homes of health and hospitals, but in all of Serbia, not just the Clinical Centre in Belgrade and what Pajtic opened, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, as he calls it. Don't just equip the hospital, if you have a hospital in the place where you were born. You don't, of course, have a home of health with two rooms. Equipment throughout Serbia. Do you know what tragedy is happening today in Serbia? Sick people and sick kids. The patient gets a diagnosis from the doctor that he has cancer and says, "God, you've come at a pretty late stage, but you have to confirm this my diagnosis on the scanner, and in order to go to the scanner, they tell him – we can schedule you in four months. This guy already told him he came in late, given the disease he's got. That's terrible stuff. Generally, the Serbian government does not take care of it. Let you, ministers, go out and boast – I did this, so take a picture at the Clinical Center, and take a picture at Pajtic's clinical center, and the problems are much deeper and much bigger than you are trying to show. These problems are known to Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, there are a lot of sick people. Many cancers in Serbia are due to the bombing of these Euro-friends of criminal NATO aggression. As a doctor, you know exactly how much this has to do with anything. So, if you want to listen to the well-intentioned advice of the SRS, we do not advise it to improve you, but to improve the citizens of Serbia, remove more NGOs from the budget, suggest it there in the government. What kind of NGOs, what kind of quarks, what kind of miracles do you give this people money to? Identify that health care money. Get that to your colleagues in the government. Get all these agencies out of the budget. What do you need the agencies for? What are these various agencies doing only for health care? I guess you're the Ministry, you've got experts, doctors and you in the ministry should be running a health policy, not some kind of agency. Do something. Here, two days ago, you were written by those of the Anti-Corruption Agency, says this governor of the National Bank and that director of Flight Control, who have over five or six thousand euros in salary, as if the extra-time people don't know where they live, they were just comparing, so they say how much the specialist doctor works and how much they work for. But you don't want to do it that way. We warned you, Minister Stankovic. Urgher in the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is also from your party that Minister of Economy Ciric, to force tycoons like Beka, Miskovic and some others to return to the state of Serbia the five billion owed to them in the name of the contribution. So, take what the state needs to get, and don't like what Vukic announces through his spokesman Cvian, that he will let Joco Amsterdam out of jail because Joca Amsterdam is going to build some bridge whatever authority he has, that new one, don't God say it. Don't do this, take what they have to give. The tycoons have to pay their dues. Five billion are due to the state budget, which is more than three budget deficits, Mr. Stankovic. Here's a way to allow doctors to receive the salaries they really deserve, nurses, counselors that they don't have to strike to get an adequate salary, the police don't have to strike to get an adequate salary, and not only strike all those I've listed, but the fact that you've brought your wages to live below the existential minimum, unfortunately, you know, you as a doctor should know, the poorer people the moral threshold falls. Well, then, one of the reasons why there's so much corruption, why can't you go to the doctor for a regular day-to-day checkup, let alone one, don't give God, surgery, if you don't give some money. Of course, one of the serious reasons is that people in the profession who save lives, who treat the nation, work for incredibly small money. And then you introduce corrective coefficients. Here's a new opportunity for you to pay with corrective coefficients only that kind of corrective amount to the ones your directors say it is. In all the homes of health and hospitals are your directors. And being directors, we can accept it. You've come to power, so you're putting your directors in. But you can't put the director, they're here to conduct some of your general policies, but you can't put your director in a health care home to chican those who aren't members of G17 and to hire just like that. That's all they're gonna do while you're in power to get this corrective greater profit coefficient. These others will not, and besides impossible to apply this corrective coefficient, we have talked about it a lot, ministers, it is impossible to apply in Black Travis, White Palanca and the Old Town municipality. You remember that home of health, you promised to learn the data in the meantime and tell us what you learned about these crimes by that then director of the Old Town Health Home. You can't turn a doctor, I told you that last time and today, into a sawmill worker with boards. The patient needs to talk to his doctor, not just listen to him and write him a prescription. I guess there's a different relationship between a doctor and a patient, or there should be. If you do not accept this amendment, what have you reduced your doctor and patient relationship to? You've come down to the fact that doctors have to do it on their own for their own survival, they have to do beyond what their profession and conscience and ethics are telling them, because you're forcing them to figure out how many patients they've been through the office. Then it doesn't matter what way they went, whether the doctor really heard it, if he found out about the disease gene, if he figured out where that patient really stamped it, if he sent it to a real specialist. Maybe it's someone with cancer again who's very urgent and important to see a specialist doctor on time. You have to take care of that. Make sure all doctors have good salaries, not just those you think they should have good salaries. You're saying you can't accept the amendment. If you've read this, who knows when this is written, since the bill is a year and a half ago, if you've read this, you have to see how illogical this is that you wrote in this explanation. You do not accept the amendment because this member whose amendment we are looking for has been given the legal basis for the government to arrange the elements for the billing of salaries of health care professionals. This is just not true. As one of the elements for the billing of salaries, corrective coefficients are also prescribed and you say, "it would be impossible, by erasing those words, to arrange a system of salaries for healthcare professionals". Where does it say "Ministers"? Article 4(3) states: "The government determines corrective coefficients, the highest percentage increase in the basic salary, criteria and criteria for the part of the salary that is achieved on the basis of the work effect, as well as the way and the calculation of the salary". If this corrective coefficient is deleted, these other elements remain which would help to regulate the employee pay system closer, and you say that if this is deleted it is disabled. Read both our amendment and our proposal and this explanation, so you can see how illogical that is. You say, "The provision of this article provides that the basic salaries of health care professionals are determined by multiplying the base coefficient for the calculation of wages and corrective coefficients," this does not say anywhere, I read, does not say what you wrote, "it would prevent the identification of the basic salary of health employees by eradicating corrective coefficients". How can a corrective coefficient compromise the basic salary? It is not under this law that you, by some phantom regulation, will predict – the doctor works a month without a salary unless this corrective coefficient gives him some percentage. That's how you interpret what you wrote. You say – it would also violate the pay system in health institutions. What system of wages is there in health institutions? There are jobs and there are coefficients and there's a base and that's how wages are paid in all state bodies. Of course it's bad. So at first, I said that we were expecting when we received this bill a year and a half ago that you would really essentially change the law, that you would finally arrange that between budget users there should be no greater difference than 1:3. You can't have someone who's important in a process, whether it's an employee in the Assembly who has 24.000,00 salary or an assistant worker in a hospital who has less than that, who has twenty thousand salaries. Both are important for the work being done in that institution. In the Assembly we have some employees who have a salary that is higher than two parliamentary salaries, so we have in health care, so then the ratio between the highest and lowest salary is six, seven, eight, nine times. That's inadmissible. Everyone has to make sure they can eat, pay the costs of regular, communal, to have some elements for life. The bottom line is, you had to make sure that everyone who works has to make a living, and then there goes the upgrade, how professional, how perfect, how dedicated, etc. A series of elements that could be determined, but of course you have completely different criteria. Your criteria are what's hidden here, and that's why you don't accept our amendment, when you said you didn't accept the amendment because it's the legal basis for the government to deal with this regulation further, and that's the essence. In 2000, you led part of the campaign against Slobodan Milosevic, I mean everything from the DOS, to the fact that you accused Milosevic of ruling regulations. And there were these problems, but you allowed yourself to, by regulations, talk about the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, about the current regime that is devastating to the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens, you allowed yourself to recognise the Supreme Court of Justice through a regulation called the so-called Supreme Court. the countries of Kosovo. Then what can we expect? What are you going to do with this regulation? You'll be taking pictures of your doctors, so it'll be next to the pictures and who'll be getting the pay. This is a bad minister. Tomica Milosavljevićje was then a promoter, perhaps he had a good intention, of course, I joke when I talk about his good intentions, but even if there was a good intention, this is how you wrote about the creation of chaos. They're going to create chaos running after this corrective coefficient. The doctors will have to neglect the patients and the doctor must not neglect the patient, you know that, so it should be. I'm sorry that we're talking about doctors this way, because we believe that doctors, in most cases, are honorable moral people, to honor the Hippocratic oath, but just because of those kind of things we warn you about, don't be these honorable doctors, good experts to force you into corruption and to make you neglect your own profession. You've taken care of yours, your doctors who carry from a professor to a medical school to a health care director, hospitals, etc. who wear that sign on white coats, some Europeans who wear members of the URS, I see, you don't wear that sign. Please warn the director, etc. That they can wear it on their private jackets, but the white coats don't work. They have to be doctors for every patient who comes and does their job safely. It is the work of doctors and healthcare professionals and it is your job to provide them with adequate salaries, to provide them with adequate means to work and to be in all of Serbia, in all of Serbia. You can't do a little bit, there's no scanner there, there's no ultrasound, there's no gauze, there's no medication. You're talking about some black '90s when there was nothing in the hospitals, so there's not even now and now the surgery is being paid. I repeat, you have arranged these two clinical centres that serve you for painting but not Serbia Belgrade and Novi Sad, Serbia is much bigger than that and Serbia is, Ministers and KIM. Take care and remind your friends, colleagues in the government if you meet Boris, tell him he has no right to betray Serbia and Serbia's national interests at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64162	Eleven minutes and 33 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group and the total time at your disposal as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group was used. National MP Predrag Mijatovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64163	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a quick look at what's just been said. However, one party's policy and one party's programme are not based on whether it is for the EU or not. There are many more things on which the party's policy is based, and otherwise, you've convinced me gentlemen have done and thank you for that. You've convinced me with your policy that I'm right in the party I'm supposed to be in. Thank you, i.e. in SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64164	Anyone else want a word? Please, no direct communication. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not declared itself, so the amendment is under review. The promoter has the right to his two minutes. National MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64165	I thank Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, for taking the time to talk about the two amendments I have submitted, and I see that a colleague from the SRS has already prejudged that they will be adopted after the government has accepted these amendments. So it's something that treats employees whose salaries are financed from so-called. their own incomes, and so that we don't bring them into an unequal position with people who are so-called. agreed, as we say in the jargon, these legal regulations will apply to both groups, united. Not a small number of these people, if I'm not mistaken, will be corrected by people from the ministry, as many as 13,000 people are funded by a contract with the Fund and the second amendment refers to evaluation and teamwork. This specifically applies to secondary and tertiary institutions, but of course it also has a primary level. When we talk about the corrective coefficient that at all the quality of work will have to have that dimension of the entire team's engagement because very often, it's not just about the doctor, it's about technicians, in some cases physio-therapy, etc. So, I think these amendments may be of some degree and technical nature, but the good part concerns the interests of people who are past what is the main interest, they are usually doctors, dentists, etc. Very briefly, if I can take advantage of the chairman's time from the MP's group, in addition to mentioning my name, the party I belong to is also mentioned. I have to admit that in some ways today he feels a deficit due to the absence of Dr. Momchilov, who is competent in that area, and it's always a pleasure to debate with him. So, his colleagues have tried very well today to compensate for the lack, let's say, knowledge or knowledge of the facts in the area of financing health care, trying to politicise the topic in a lot of banals and daily political ways. I would ask you to simply name which doctors wear badges on white coats, and I will join the conviction along with you. The urban legend of how in the entire health system are all human beings, G17+, is really hard to comment on, because it's already such a told story that has no basis in reality. I'm really judging, and I'd like to join you, all those who handle health care and take money to hire people. It's really a crime, and I expect us to try to animate both the prosecution and the police to sanction such people. So, about the mention, I believe the minister will look back on the subject. I am a member of the party, and Mr. Stankovic is not a member of our party, but we are very pleased to have him present at our party meetings. We have proposed it to this place and the function it performs today and it is our honor and we are pleased with how the minister performs that function and will also have support in the coming period by the URS. I am sorry, and I must once again point out that we have heard very few arguments today regarding the financing of health care and what is real, what gives this law. I'll just mention that it's absolutely been said here that the reception itself will be done based on the number of patients, it's absolutely not true. I will invite all those MPs who are interested above all to visit the website of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, to see how they determine their earnings in health care. We would really need a more day-long debate to, and a sort of explanation of all this, so that people who are just now going into this topic can understand what this is all about. But it's absolutely not about the number of patients, it's about the quality of work. This quality of work involves a number of parameters we can always talk about. It is also about rationality, efficiency, how many preventive checks, etc. All in all, we, just like we did at the board meeting where we dealt with this topic. The fact is, this law has elements that may at this point not know all the facts carry certain things that may be as unpleasant as they always come from unless you know the right matter. I am fully convinced, as well as my colleagues from the U.S.S., that this law can finally put a patient in the center of the system, which we have stood for for a decade. He's actually doing it. On the other hand, we also separate work from work. I'd like to hear if it's against the fact that in some medical facility, those who can't answer those tasks that are absolutely for average people are separated. So there are no norms set that match what a doctor and an expert could do. That is why, of course, we will support the law on our own both in principle and in particular. I'd like to invite my colleagues at a level that involves the facts and knowledge of this matter to debate and to take another look at the amendments I've submitted. I would like you to support them because they absolutely include the entire Corps of Staff in the health system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64166	Five minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Time is available for 16 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64167	I have to admit, there's a bit of a strange debate in one part of my fellow MP Sima Vukovic. I stress my fellow MPs because they don't need to be a doctor to talk about the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services. I believe and I am sure that the citizens will recognize it, that all of us very qualifiedly talked about it, and from a medical point of view, from the point of view of the doctor, said our colleague Dušanka Pecevic. I just don't see why this observation that we can't talk about everything we've talked about, about how you hire in health care, how corruption flourishes, how you're waiting to schedule a specialist review, etc. That's why you shouldn't be a doctor. I hope even the doctors are in great numbers absolutely against it but, unfortunately, life is denying you. You talked here about the health strategy, etc., but what is happening today in Serbia is so far from it. You must know that, actually, it's impossible that you don't know that. While we were talking, I got a text message from Prepolje. I'm told it takes up to eight thousand euros for a doctor from Prepolje to get a job at Užica. You say, someone say. You know, no one's gonna say because he had to sell I don't know what, sell the field to get a job, and he's already had to sell two to finish medical school, otherwise I admit to an extremely difficult college and a job of extreme importance and great responsibility. You expect, as well as generally when it comes to corruption, to be reported by someone who corrupts a doctor, a teacher, a president of a municipality, a president of a state, whoever, who will admit to corruption. They will not, for they have driven you, and he has corrupted you as well as the corrupt one. It's also one of the essential problems that we of the SRS have talked about many times. Make changes to the law to match only the one who got the money, not the one who gave it. We don't even justify who gave it, but it's often hard to make people suffer, there's no money, he borrows, he sells something out of the house to give to a doctor. You know, when it comes to life and health, not only of a person, but above all, more than any family member, a man is not afraid of anything. There's no question why I should bribe a doctor now and, God forbid, he's my child sick. Of course, people usually do it out of necessity and out of great pain. Let's only match the one who got the money. Create these conditions, not to say – imagine, a doctor hired himself, waited five years for a job, a great student and finally got a job because he found out who to give these several thousand euros to, and now he has to say I volunteer to lose my job again and put me in jail because I had to give money to get a job. Do you see any logic in that? You regret why Dr. Pai Momchilov is not here. Well, we really miss her, too. You're a younger doctor, much younger than Paia Momchilova, and I'm glad you miss her, because you have anyone to study from. Here, for information, Dr. Paya Momchilov is in Jerusalem these days as a world-renowned expert. There he was invited to attend the European Health Service, and you are here in the Assembly, because that call came through the Committee, gentlemen ruling, wanting to hide, you covered up that call, and then the doctors, colleagues of Dr. Momchilov from the world level, personally invited him, so he's there. So nice of you to ask where Paja Momchilov is, and there she is, and you wanted her not to go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64168	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP PredragMijatovic, then a National MP, Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64169	I'd like to say two things. A colleague of Vukovic's, how he will evaluate his work towards the head, i.e. The reception in different specialties? One is the examination of a skin doctor, so I don't make parallels between a specialist, a gynecologist or a psychiatrist. One psychiatrist is able to examine five or six patients during working hours while listening to all the problems that this patient has. Doctor of general practice can review perhaps 20-30, gynecologist 30 etc. How are you going to evaluate this work according to the captainship? The doctor who examines 20 patients compared to the one who examines 50 I think he's far more quality-sighted than the one who examined 20 because he had time to wait for that one to strip, says what it's about, puts on again and goes, unlike someone who receives five or six women in gynaecological clinics and keeps all their underwear in their hands to leave as soon as possible, like on tape. How are you going to value it? What Mrs. Radet says about Mr. Paiu Momchilov, that it went so on the Health Committee, it's not true. I highly appreciate Mr. Momchilov. I think I've known him longer than Mrs. Radet, because a gynecologist like me and with specialization, the call didn't come by the name of Dr. Paia Momchilova, was called to delegate a member of the Health Committee. We also discussed this on this Health Committee on the proposal by Mr. Vukovic, who himself said it was good for the chairman of the Health Committee to go, we voted for Mr. Paja Momchilov to go. So Paja Momchilov went to Jerusalem. So, the call was a little misspelled, but the call didn't go to the name, like all calls so far, they don't go to the name, they go to the Health Committee. Therefore, transferring colleagues to Vukovic whether or not he knows, counterpart Vukovic suggested that Pai Momchilov go to Jerusalem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64170	It was used two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64171	Thank you. I'm sorry we don't deal with the law that's in front of us through this discussion. Let's say a technical thing that I think the citizens of Serbia and the public don't tang much in the way Dr Momcilov is in an official state delegation at a meeting of the European region of the World Health Organisation. So this one error that occurred in communication between individual state authorities was corrected on the committee itself. We unanimously supported it and there's no need for you to politicize it. Do not edit the relations within the Committee that works well. We also have good relations with the Office of the President of Parliament, as well as with the Secretary-General, and I really don't think there should be a theme on the tide when we talk about the Law on the salaries of civil servants. Mr. Mijatovic's question, therefore, I ask you once again and I suggest that we look at the way in which a profit is calculated in health care, wages, based on the formula that exists and which, of course, is not a bit simple but I ask you to put yourself first. Because it's not just the number of registered insured persons in a particular doctor, it's measured on the basis of certain institutions, not a republican average, but on the basis of a particular institution. Thus, the climate is respected, as colleagues mentioned. It will not be the same normative for the work performance in Montenegro and Belgrade. So there's nothing to worry about in that sense. If someone worries that some people, who in good part of the institution exist, who do not do their job or do not want to do it, do not have a profit like those people who meet that norm and work over it, then it is a personal matter or call whatever you want – some kind of political attitude that is incomprehensible to me. What is a quality of work, I have listed only a few parameters that are assessed through it and that regulation already exists with the Republic Fund. So now we can get into the details. I think the people of the ministry are much more competent than me to answer questions like that. If necessary, an appropriate formula can also be carried out to calculate it on a specific case, but I think that, in a way, we have had the opportunity on the committee itself. Here were the subject of these two amendments that I have submitted, and I would love to and return to the end of my previous discussion, that colleagues understand the meaning of these amendments that I have submitted and that in the same way that we supported a colleague to be in the state delegation, regardless of being an opposition MP, we support it. Because there's no heresy to support an amendment that's in the interest of all those people who work in the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64172	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Time is available for 11 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64173	First of all, I don't know why my colleague Vukovic is now complaining that I explained where Paja Momchilov is? He asked where Paia Momchilov was and I had to do it for the public to say, so the citizens wouldn't think he was acting like some other MPs from the government and didn't come. Paja's here when she's supposed to, today and these days she's where she is. I explained. He said this Mijatovic was not true, but that only something went wrong. Is that the expression – baschurio corresponds to what I said, that someone tried to remove the call, I think it actually is. Comrade Vukovic, you have made no concession to Paji Momchilov. Dr. Paja Momchilov is the chairman of the Health Committee. Look at what it says on the invitation, which he said, was infatuated with Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Let's deal with it now. You think we don't know all the details? Of course we do. And what does that mean? We voted for Paia Momchilov, even though he was an opposition apostle? It's just amazing. We know what your relationship is, your authority, your opposition and how you're trying to choke the opposition in any way. We from the SRS, thank God, of course, you can't. You say, "You expect your colleagues to understand." We understand very much, Mr. Vukovic, and if you doubt our understanding, that's your problem. It's not that you don't understand. You all understand perfectly, but the thing is, you're consciously doing the opposite of that understanding of yours. As far as this progressive is concerned, the point is, and you know it, colleague Vukovic, that he wanted to go to Jerusalem. That's the problem. He asked to go. Yes, Mrs. Komic, Simo confirms. That's why there's been some raving. That gentleman says he knows Paia Momchilov longer than I do, because they're both gynecologists. Yeah, they're doctors of the same profession. The only difference is that there was never a criminal record against Paia Momchilova because of unconscious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64174	National MP Predrag Mijatovic will get his word. I ask the MPs to listen to each other and if they want to use the time at their disposal, to use it in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Predrag Mijatovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64175	Thank you. I think Mrs. Radete's vocabulary offends the dignity and the citizens who listen. Address, regardless of the degree of sympathy or antipathy, with this or that, it is more like a street and less like a parliament. But, well, it goes to her education and the nursery she may have had, or not, when she was a little girl. Secondly, all documents that arrive at the Health Committee are logical to be addressed to the chairman of that committee, not to Mrs Bozan or Natasa Jovanovic, who are secretaries, but normally to be addressed to the chairman of the Committee, whether by name and last name or only by the chairman of the Committee, and still matters what it says in the text. The text can say – We invite you to attend both this and that or that you delegate someone or that your committee delegates someone. That would be the essence of what is still written in the letter. As far as criminal charges and lies are concerned, Mrs Radeta has already brought that lie to the Eye, which I filed a criminal complaint against her, so we're going to settle it somewhere else, not here in the Assembly. Thank you very much. (Zoran Popovic, from the place: Swear. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64176	It was used one minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. I ask MP Zoran Popovic not to throw it away. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64177	Very short. The one he's been saying now, I recommend that he move from Wolf's camp to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64178	People's MPs, you are bound, regardless of what the contents of any MP's discussion are, with respect, to address all participants at the session. People's MPs are 250. He participates in the session usually another government official. It is a business obligation for MPs to address each other with respect, and it is a duty for the chairman to remind the MP who insists on promoting the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that unless the MP refuses to give up his violation of the Rules of Procedure, he should be warned. So, please comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, with respect to all the other participants in the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64179	Okay. It means he's moving from Wolf's camp to Tomin because he's with Tom...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64180	People's e-mails, that doesn't mean. I told you you can't talk to other participants in the session like that. If you have imagined - I will hear what reminds me but I will continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, it is my right – you did not imagine well. If you want to use the time available to you, you will have to use it in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige us all to be polite to each other, and they oblige me as chairman to prevent the promotion of rudeness, the demeaning of other participants in the session and in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm warning you now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64181	If Mr. Predrag Mijatovic, from the Vucic team, from the camp, moves to Tom's camp, he would be better off right now, because through Tom, Cana could pay for his stay in Jerusalem...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64182	People's MPs, what part of the reminder did you not understand? If you insist on giving a warning measure, I am at your disposal. If you wish to address another People's Messenger, or you will do so in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or I will give you a warning measure. The second warning, and after that, is merely an expression of the warning measure. Here you go. You want to take advantage of the time at your disposal? No, I don't. I thank you. The People's Parliament is "not allowed", which is not true and demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly. Each MP has won the right to use freedom of speech and to exercise the right that the Rules of Procedure has given him. No MP has provided the right to promote rudeness, to promote rude speech, and to believe that only it or itself is subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and for the rest of us that they do not apply. So I ask you to refrain from misbehaving and tossing the chairman during the session of the National Assembly. National MP Simo Vukovic submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 3a. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? This is the last amendment to the search. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64183	When we talk about the amendment, then we must say that, I will read it later, that he is contradictory and I would ask the minister to read it again. I will try through an explanation to give basic reasons why he is contradictory, and by stating the practice that is very important, not only in this ministry, but also in other ministries that have had similar situations and very bad solutions, and even the government intervened. Article 3a, i.e. 6a of the parent law, as proposed by Mr Sima Vukovic, reads: "The billing and payment of salaries of health care professionals in the state property, whose salaries in general or in part are secured from the budget or from their own incomes of a health institution, shall be subject to the provisions of this law governing salaries paid from social security contributions. "Where is the contradiction and inability of such a solution? In that, what is set out in the budget is set aside for wages. You can't let that happen, because it's bad practice in other national authorities, too. Here, at the same time, several agencies, several institutions had similar practices. They have some revenue from the budget and then the rest are working according to their intentions. You don't have a way of singleing out the funds you make through your own and your own incomes. You have no elements how and how to valorize it, how to insert it, etc. That's the opposite of this law. Why? Because the budget and the financial system have been told how and what are the conditions, what are the elements and criteria of the allocation and how much the funds are allocated. If you enter the category – your own income, you must also enter into the law how you will share those own incomes, in which way, who has the right, who has no right. Look, now the same medical facilities have, they're two, one doesn't have some equipment, the other has some equipment. As it came to her, it's irrelevant. One earns incomes and medical workers who work on that equipment, earn incomes and get paid, and those who don't, how will they get paid? He won't get paid. I'll let you know what kind of situation the Catastrian Office had. He had the next situation. They had some income, so they put it in and paid for it. By the time it came to the government, why? Because their income from their own sources was 30%, 40% of the pay base. Then the ones that work in the field were getting, the other ones who don't work in the field, they didn't win. This came to the government and the government intervened – you no longer have the right to share these funds, because it does not belong to you, it is a monopoly position and because of this monopoliesic position you are making some revenue that you do not have entered into the law. Now you're inauguration through this, you're putting in the possibility that from your own income, based on a monopoly position, because the director was in good relations with the Director of the Health Insurance Office, so he bought some equipment, so we're making incomes so whoever works, the medical worker, the health care worker, gets 20%, 30%, 40% based on these sources from his own incomes, and someone who does the same jobs, but doesn't make the income, he won't have it. The same deal with a monopoly allows for certain non-legislative assets to be obtained. Nowhere in the law you have the basic elements and criteria to share those own incomes. You can't do this. This is one valve that allows you to install into the system and into the law something that doesn't exist. You don't have that anywhere in this law. Where do you have, where can you possibly have it? You may have potential in a collective contract, but you hereby delete the provisions of a collective contract. You don't support him, you throw him aside, and we know what a collective contract means in the legal system and who all participates in creating collective bargaining. Minister, what you've accepted, read it again well. If it's a practice in other state institutions that their own incomes can't be divided into wages where it can possibly be shared? In the purchase of new equipment, devices, modernisation, in the IT system as a whole. That's good, because it's a monopoly position. So it wasn't the doctor who created it and will have certain benefits based on your own income, because you inauguration it this way. It's a monopoly position. Others don't have that. They didn't have a dad in the Health Insurance Directorate, so he approved and gave funds, etc. Don't. This is one valve that will be used by healthcare institutions, those who have had opportunities and a monopoly position, and the other will not have. You're going into a legal void here yourself. How will you fill that in? May God help you. When you talk about the corrective coefficient, you probably thought you'd solve this. We've requested the removal of the corrective coefficient. A colleague, Martinovic, submitted the amendment. That's the way. You'll allow some people, in the health system, to have benefits, and by law, they don't. You don't have it anywhere. You don't have any parent law, no changes and supplements. Through this amendment you introduce him and tomorrow you will create two kinds of workers. One that's in a monopoly position and one that's not in a monopoly position. On the other hand, colleague Vukovic is talking about the system, talking about strategy. We've been implementing that strategy for over nine years. It's only with this law that we introduce a work effect. We're introducing a work effect category. Now let's pass it on to this amendment. The work effect of one healthcare professional, the working effect of another healthcare professional who perform the same jobs – how to weigh it, how to reward it? You're going to have a lot of trouble. Keep an eye on the legal institutes you're introducing through the system and through this amendment to the law. Tomorrow you're going to have big problems in practice and in the application of laws like this, unclear laws, certain categories that mean everything, and they don't mean anything, general legal formulations, which tomorrow will create the possibility that health workers, those who have their own income, will pay off as they please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64184	This used the time available to the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64185	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Buha, you won't mind if I tell you that in reality today, which exists in the health system, correct me Ministers if I'm wrong, there are 13,000 people who work and whose salaries are financed from their own incomes. It didn't happen yesterday, we've practically had this institute for two decades, because in certain institutions, the fund didn't approve of jobs that would be financed from the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The directors of the facility were forced to hire people somewhere. It depends on the facility to the facility, it's bigger somewhere, and a smaller number somewhere, but these people exist in the system. You can't recognize them overnight as arranged jobs, because you don't have the money for it. Now you and I can discuss whether or not we're going to erase those 13,000 people. So what you're saying is you want to quit for 13,000 people in the health system. I don't want to replace the thesis, but I just feel like you don't know this fact either. So the reality in Serbia's health system is that the largest number of people, I think, are about 104, representing agreed salaries from the Republic Fund, and you have people who are funded from their own incomes. I wish these own revenues were used in a different way, in terms of investment maintenance of the supply of equipment, etc. A large number of institutions, i.e. the director of institutions at this point, have a practically nightmare to provide salaries for these people who are financed by their own incomes, because you have to provide enough work for your health care facility that is on the market to provide a salary for these people. So please understand that fact when we talk about it. As regards issues and receptions and systems that involve financing secondary and territorial protection, what is mentioned in the explanation as a system of diagnostic related groups, therefore, one and the other systems have been known for almost three decades in the system of financing health care for the most developed countries in the world. It is not now invented by someone in Serbia, it is a system we are applying, or trying to apply it. If you think that the reception and system of diagnostic related groups can be introduced in half a year or a year, then you are in serious error. It's a process that in the most developed countries of the world takes a decade to observe the process so you can apply it. So don't simplify things. I'm really calling you, we're discussing it, but then we need to know the facts of what we're talking about. I hope you don't get me wrong in that sense. Now, that's the question. We're preparing a system for calculating and financing wages, according to the percapital system, or per capita, because it's really a simplified name for something far more complex than that, it started, it seems to me, if I'm not mistaken, six years ago. As part of this international organization, I think primarily of the World Bank, they also funded the information system and prepared the entire system for years, so that we can do this interstep. Let me tell you, and what we're bringing is not the end of that process, because it has further its stages for which we are, of course, not ready at this moment. In that sense, I wanted to tell you. Please respect the fact that the way the salaries are financed at this point is for a number of people who are employed in the health system. I believe there'll be something about that, too, Professor. Stankovic to say as resolute minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64186	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The SRS parliamentary group no longer has time at your disposal, but you have the right to a replica, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64187	I think you got me very well, you just twisted the facts I was talking about, in a legal sense. You don't have a foothold in this law, and you don't have a birth certificate. As this will be resolved, that own participation is now a question. Here, specifically, I'm a lawyer, I want you to tell me how it's gonna work out? On what criteria are you going to share these funds? Secondly, from a financial point of view, how are you going to resolve a situation in which you have one criterion and one level of service in one health institution, and in the other you have another? How are you going to reward now, in one situation is 100 dinars, and in another 50 dinars, so how are you going to reward people who do the same job on the same equipment, with two kinds of services? You know very well that you have such situations. How are you going to solve the exact same number of patients, the same type of service, etc.? There's a problem in your system that you'll have to establish after all this. What's most important, you can't treat those funds with the private means of that health care facility. These are government funds that go into the budget. They can't be the means of that facility. They go into the budget like any other means. It's only then that they share. So we created in other institutions, so they had problems, they created privileges and better conditions for some workers, and others didn't, so it all finally fell down. Don't do that, learn from those who have already had such experience and eventually the government had to intervene and say – you can't do that anymore. All the resources that enter are those companies, and institutions, and agencies, and the revenues made on that basis can be invested not for wages, but for the purchase of equipment, devices, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64188	Thank you. National MP Predrag Mijatovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64189	I'm applying to Mr. Vukovic's amendment. You're saying there's 13,000, I didn't know the exact number, people who are funded by health care institutions, which means they're not on budget funds or funds. Normally, you don't have to fire them, you need to find the means to fund them regularly, just like everyone else. What are you doing that way? You are forcing a health care institution to operate on the edge of legality, and for that we have examples, or to harm the patient, to raise funds that, unfortunately, will not go into investment investments, but most often go to the employment of workers, whether it is pay, preparedness, overtime or so. How good is that? Because you have a situation where, let's say, I'm working in order for something to come up with these extra funds, which you're pushing the director to, it's not the director's invention, but you're forcing the directors to do business and not possibly be replaced as incompetent, let's say, terminations of pregnancy are done in the afternoon of two hours. Why two hours? So it can be charged as extra action. I can't argue whether it's a business on the edge of the law, whether it's legal or not, whether you allow it or not, but it says that in the gynecology of the Kind of kiretage, the interruptions of pregnancy in the hospital work at two o'clock in the afternoon, with one part of the money getting hospital, one part getting a job, one part of the nurse, one part of the anesthesiologist, etc. It's harassment because a patient goes into a private office and a pregnancy interruption is done immediately or within an hour or two. Also, you have another thing, in this way you support and continue to extend the work of former Minister Tomica, vampire clinics, night and night labor, to secure some funds from which this or that will be paid again at the expense of the patient, because this patient who may be able to make the turn in the afternoon or during the afternoon but, in that case, he goes to the booklet – no, he will come in the afternoon, or at night, so he will give two, three, four, five, six, seven, or I don't know how many thousands, and of those money will then pay for this or that. It's something that I and the Health Committee asked you when you'd end it, because I personally don't think it's right, that it puts patients in an unequal position and that it's kind of against the constitution, because we're all equal before the Constitution. This way, however, it would be said to be counter-constitutional. So to defend that that way we will pay off those 13,000 people is not the way, Mr. Vukovic. The right path is to get it out of the budget. from a regular hospital reception fund, and a hospital, if it already has some extra income or something that goes to provide better functioning, equipment, etc. You know, you read it yourself, and in the papers, our hospitals are in terrible shape with the water boilers that have fallen, no toilets, with the mole that has fallen, etc. It's a shame and a shame about our hospitals. By chance, the Vrsac hospital was named one of the worst hospitals in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64190	Four minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Is anyone else answering for a word, since it's the amendment that was submitted as the last in the search in particular? No, I don't. ) Does the Minister want a word? The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64191	I thought that when a man answers questions, all he has to do is answer the part relating to legislation. However, given the experience after these sessions, I think it is necessary to give a full answer to what is mentioned here today or what is mentioned in the congregation debate at all. First of all, you're talking about the chieftain. One new word or whatever you want. Do the chieftains apply in the congregation, and do the chieftains apply in the congregation, so those who have the highest number of heads, they lead the state and the government? How does this happen, and on what basis do these people, who win the election, have the right to decide on the law? Is that just about the National Assembly, or is that, like, in Russia? Why isn't Zhuganov in Russia but Putin? It's a question to say and it's a universal principle that rules everywhere. So most people decide on behalf of those who choose them. Therefore, when you talk about this term, then take the law, the bill or what we have proposed, which someone before me proposed in general, I said it was an inherited obligation and now say – this inherited obligation, which was voted by the Serbian Parliament, tear it up. Now you're asking me to be destructive for what you brought. Is this the way you behave and is this destruction in this House necessary in the way you propose? Whether the international commitment at the same time means – no, we will make a selective approach, both in law enforcement and in international commitments, so accept this, this does not suit us, do not accept or do not accept because Sima Vukovic said or did not know who. Therefore, I ask that we have one universal principle when it comes to that and that there are arguments behind it, that we act according to this chieftain you speak of. Second of all, you're saying you're for an increase in health care workers' salary. I am even more than you, as resolute minister, for increasing the salary to health workers and I told the Assembly last session that health care workers are 28 places per salary. Now I expect from you gentlemen who say this, to propose now in the budget, which should be, significantly higher resources for the health system, not that the health system, compared to 2007, will be halved. Not enough of you? Convince the citizens that there's enough of you to decide and there's no problem. Why does someone else decide that? That's the answer I want to give you. No one left parliament because of such poor health pay. For a thousand reasons you left parliament, some groups, I don't know who everything, but no one because the salaries in health care are low, no one left this Parliament. I'd like to ask you to leave if you're already so much in favour of that salary increase and let's say once what it's all about. You can say that the law provides for the pay to form the beginning of the criteria. Therefore, the first criterion - the number of patients per selected physician. So, those patients who made the statement that they're committed to a single doctor. What does the statement implies that this doctor was chosen and that he has the highest number of patients who want to be treated with him? Is what he's saying, is what he's doing, is what he's treating and what's according to all these criteria that you're listing here, negative for the headline, applicable, or are those people who, by their work, have a relationship with the patient, diagnostic knowledge or all those procedures worth the patients? That's the first criterion. The second, preventive programme for which the selected doctors have been identified. Nobody said anything about that. I must tell you, when this law was discussed, 30% of the doctor's appointment on preventive programs was increased. When this law stopped in the congregation, which you were talking about, then the percentage fell again to that part that was unsatisfactory. Third, average number of prescribed medications. Fourth, only in the end, the number of visits per doctor. Therefore, it is not a determining factor for the height of the salary that is stated – just the number of heads. No, there are four criteria. I wish everyone had talked about each of the criteria individually. Is this system ideal? I'm sure there's better, but I didn't hear it here, but you say - pull it. When you talk about other things, when Mr. Buha asks me to answer for Article 6a, it means that the position of employees in the health system is equal, which was also a recommendation of the Constitutional Court, in order to remove the ambiguities on which the salaries for people employed in health institutions are generally provided, but more than the number agreed by the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I told you that 13,600 unnecessary workers in the healthcare system are paid for by health care institutions. I want to tell you right now that they're only on the basis of personal incomes, they're about 8,700,000 dollars paid by health care institutions. They earn about 5,800,000, which they enter into, and the drugs and the whole consumable material. On that basis alone, we have a lack of payment in the health system of four to five billion dinars. That's why the health system now has 32 billion drug-based debts. That's what needs to be solved. Then it's said - what are we going to do now? You're saying we should go after those responsible. There are organs that will prosecute the responsible, the judicial authorities, the prosecution and the police. Don't ask the minister to pursue these questions. I'm here to ensure, in addition to the problems you're talking about, the functioning of the health system. Don't make me any commitments, call someone who's responsible or you, who needs to know that you refer to them. Secondly, your knowledge is very selective and does not suit the truth. Please keep an eye on it, and last time, I listed some data that are consistent with real indicators. If you go out now and say, "Let's go with my friend Radet, if you say there are two rooms in Vladica's Han, and the House of Health in Vladica's Han has 3,700 square meters of basic surface area, that's a big discrepancy in what you're saying. If you're saying I take a picture next to Bajc and Pajtic, you understand, some clinics in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, and that the most responsible clinics are in such a state and with so much need to do something about it, it's not as representative as you're saying. At the same time if you say or, say, get out of that box and say -- every day it's written in the paper, you don't know whether it's true or not. Let's see what's true. Is it true, what has been announced today by Dr Vukanovic, that 30 to 50% of the number of children died in Serbia is unknown? We've checked who Vukanovic is, he's not in the medical chamber either, he's not in the health care institution, we haven't found him in one, we haven't found him licensed or anything, but he's been transferred information. You're now saying you won't talk about it or deny it. I'll tell you, we've been criticised for having children with Batten's disease. We've been criticised here that we didn't want to give money and that we won't, since the procedure in China is effective and successful. We called China, we wrote to China, and we got information that Batten's disease is being treated at the level of an experiment that our law doesn't recognize. Secondly, so far, ten children have been treated, five of them from Serbia. Then let's see what's going on and what's true. That's why no one wanted to publish it, and those who criticized us and those who called me, etc. Not to mention the famous writer who wrote the column, the worst possible column I've ever read about health workers, with a very serious illness that was recovered in a health institution, but said everything is bad. Wait, who cured you? Bad doctors, okay, I agree. Bad sisters, okay, I agree. Bad machines, I agree. Who cures you? Come on, find out, at least one man deserved to say, one sister, someone. I called him for a month to come and tell me – that's not good. Or say no. But that's why he's still a columnist on that list. When we get into that whole story, you talk about the badges we wear. As far as you can see, I've never worn anyone's badge in my life, but I don't mind if you wear the badge you wear over the lapels, I'm not against it at all. So let's be correct in that direction. When it comes to other things, why do we need this many agencies? Now you're talking about unions. Look out, unions, there are now more opinions on this law in the union itself. You have a union disagreement from Belgrade that says – why will I when I receive 40 children that I have the same salary as the one in Crno Trava or the same salary as the one in the Shop? We said that now, so we didn't predict a republican average review, because that way we would come in a position to get what few people in those areas Mr. Stevanovic is talking about. When you talk about what Mr. Vrsac said and the talk about Stevanović, about how a number of people go abroad and there are supposed to be a free cure, so let's say, of 72 students from Bosilegrad, 71 are treated free of charge in Bulgaria, while we have a position to pay for their own education. Is that true? Yeah, the RTS gave it a hit show. What are we gonna do? Some state, I don't mind, takes a stand on this issue, but at the same time it means that the House of Health in Bosilegrad or Surdulica is being resolved in one satisfactory way. We have that internal department in Surdulica broke the wall. I was there yesterday and I told them - we have to make sure that if that object goes down, both the victims and the sick and the employees, and we'll have big negative connotations. But then let's see what's the priority of what we have to solve. When you talk about KIM, the Health Ministry has provided health institutions in KIM with all necessary medicines in co-operation with the government and competent state authorities. As you can see, come on, then, tell us if we're taking care of it. In any case, we take care within the limits of available capabilities and abilities, but we take care. Who invited Paia Momchilov? I'm a little surprised by everyone who's talked about it. I called him Mrs. Radet, I made a call from the Ministry because the call came to the Ministry of Health, and then I'm in agreement, because we respect and appreciate not only the work of Paja Momchilov but the entire Health Committee, requested that they be in all our joint appearances when it comes to abroad. The board decided whether to go to Pai Momchilov. Is Paja an extraordinary expert? Yes, I have nothing on the contrary, but to know who and on what basis went and that we will continue to insist, it's a deal with everyone on the Health Committee, that they are going there and that we together perform as a state at these and such meetings. I must tell you that he also had his own performance, a very professional and correct performance in Israel, that we were informed about it, as well as other members of the delegation. When we talk about whether this is in accordance with the law, I'll tell you again, my own income, so it won't define this law, Mr. Buha. They are fully defined by the Budget System Act. Look at the Budget System Act. We had an opinion on everything we suggested here from the Constitutional Court through the Ministry of Finance and all the laws that came before this assembly went through this procedure. Don't criticize the Ministry of Health. Then we'll call the Ministry of Finance, who's in charge of this, to answer, but it all goes through in one procedure that's prescribed. So, all these bill proposals get the opinion of adequate ministries and professions, as is the legislator. I don't want to talk too much, not to burden this meeting, given that according to all those procedures that have been implemented, the proposal is fully in line with the legal system, the collective contract and last time I said that it doesn't regulate wages in health institutions, but the Law on Salaries and Sublaws, and that the law was given the consent of the Secretariat for Law. So that's what I was going to say. When it comes to, say, again now, here's what he says – Predolulje, seven to eight thousand paid a doctor to take him in. We will immediately analyze you to see if any doctors in Prepolje are admitted or not, but you are now in favour of something, to amend the law, those who give – they are afraid. What are they afraid of? How are we going to get these stories, there's giving, no one stops him, no one forbids him to report it to the authorities and that your competent authorities simply solve this problem by arresting people like that. There's still a few things I wouldn't like to comment on, but I hope we all want work to be paid by effect. Now let's say I gave you all 50% stimulation, to you sitting in Parliament all day, and last time I told you, if it was me who decided or proposed. I congratulate you on your presence, and I suggest that the vice president or anyone else increase. I respect that there are rules of work. I told you last time, are you saying that the complexity of the work in the health system is defined? Yes, it is. There are relationships, Doctor. So, there's no problem with that getting ahead yet, but don't say now that we haven't taken a major step towards all health care employees, that it doesn't tell us what the unions have proposed. I will be correct though some of them are not correct, lest I say most of them present some of their views which were not a matter of agreement. So are we going to be 0.9 now? Whether to pass such a law or to be a coefficient of one but to predict a reduction in salary by 0.1 or an increase of 0.1. That was the proposal of the loudest man to attack us. What's this about? That's why I'm telling you. We're still going on with the union talks. We're having a conversation tomorrow with the people in the health care facility chamber. What's passed as a law means it's going to be a sublegal act that you yourself know has to be passed. The deal is for each month with people from the union, an analysis is being carried out and one system is being made and the payment that will most correspond to our terms. That's what we're working on together. With your help and your criticism, our ability or incompetence, we'll see what we do. But we think we're still going to go and we're definitely going to start rewarding those who deserve it with their results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64192	The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. You used the time available to you both as a parliamentary group and as an authorised representative, you used all the time you had at your disposal. You have no right to a replica, the minister explained everything. The minister would be warned that he must respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure as well as any other participant in the session that he did anything but give an answer. With insight into the stenogram, you will see that he closely followed all the MPs and tried to answer everything. National MP Veroljub Arsic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure refer to all the participants in the debate, including the Minister, and I think that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, given that Mr. Minister has presented some facts that are not correct. If you mention Dr. Vukanic, you say nicely that he is the president of the Zemun municipality in front of the SNS, and it is not true that he claimed he was an increased mortality.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64194	Vukanovic writes, not Vukanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64195	I'm sorry if I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-30-0.u64196	Thank you. If we listened a little better, we'd save each other a lot of misunderstandings. I thank the minister for both the clarification and the difference in names, it happens. I hope we're clear. This concludes the review of the amendments, and I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes the work for today and we continue to work tomorrow, on Thursday, on December 1st, by searching the details first on the 6th item of the agenda The proposal for a market surveillance law on which 12 amendments were submitted, and then on the 7, 8th and 9th agenda we discussed in the framework of a common principle search, and tomorrow we will try to complete the search in particular by all three points, i.e. all three of the draft laws that we have discussed from the 7th to 9th agenda, which, during the working day, we will do a search in detail tomorrow. Thank you.
