ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56954	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 61 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, i.e. in the electronic voting system, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 84 identification cards have been inserted into the electronic system and that there is a visual identification of another number of MPs in the hall, and there are conditions prescribed for the work of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next Members of the People, the People's Messenger Branko Ruzic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representative of the motionist Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Government – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister, Nebojsa Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Dragan Šutanovac, Minister of Defence, to attend and Mirko Stefanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Tanja Misčević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Dragan Marković, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Milorad Todorova Todorović, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Danica Misčević, Head of Department for International Cultural Development, Education, Education, Education and Education in the Ministry of Education of the Ministry of Education, Education and Education of Education of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Education of Education, Education and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Education of Education, Education, Education and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic, Minister for the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint single search on the proposals of the law referred to in items 6 to 11 of the agenda, i.e. a joint single search on: a bill on the certification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on cooperation in the field of the fight against crime, a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, a proposal for a law on the validation of the Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of culture, higher education, scientific research, education, professional training, communication, youth and sport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Morocco, a draft law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of education, culture and sport and sport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on items 6 to 11 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 170 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs of the individual parliamentary group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia (G 17 plus and ZZ) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I also ask the National Assembly to inform the invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that they can enter and participate in the session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that according to these points of the agenda of the parliamentary group, the following MPs will be: MP Jovan Palalic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Vlajko Senic, MP of the URS (G17 plus and Together for the Forest); MP Bozidar Delic, MP of the SRS. Do we have any more information on authorised representatives? No, I don't. ) Consistent with Article 170 but in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on Co-operation in the area of the fight against crime, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on the Elimination of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Culture, Higher Education, Scientific Research, Education, Professional Training, Communication, Youth and Sports between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the Security of Information and the Code. Before the Rules of Procedure – whether the proposing's representative wants a word, we will wait for the proposing's representatives to enter the hall, so that they can be questioned. They are in the building and it is only a matter of time before the service is directed to the National Assembly. We'll ask media representatives to allow a member of the government, we understand that it is necessary to inform the public in collaboration with the media, but it is necessary that he be with us here in the session room. I'm asking the service to deliver a card to the minister so he can participate in the debate. I'm asking if the motionary's representative, the defence minister, wants a word, with a note that we've been given all the arguments in writing? Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Defence and Security Committee, MP Dusan Bajatovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information National MP Jelena Trivan, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Youth and Sports Committee, MP Milan Vukkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Please sign in to the electronic system so that I can give you the right to speak, to use on the basis of a member who prescribes that in this part of the session the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak, for 20 minutes or two times 10 minutes. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? People's MPs, please follow the course of the session. I have asked twice whether they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Your right not to identify yourself in the electronic voting system is not at all in question, as is your obligation to follow the course of the session. By strictly applying the Rules of Procedure, you would not be able to get the right to a word, because you do not follow the course of the session and you feel that you have the right to participate in the session when it suits you, and not when the Rules of Procedure say so, which I find extremely bad practice. We are going back to a part of the session where the right to the word is given by the presidents, or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. National MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56955	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of a serious remark in the way these agenda points are joined together. This absolutely has absolutely no basis in the Rules of Procedure, bringing together topics relating to security, organised crime, culture, youth and sport only because someone has estimated that this will speed up the session and that this will be a way to explain it by referring to ratifications, it is absolutely unacceptable. There are a lot of serious issues in this session. One of them, which I am going to talk about, certainly deserved to be a special item of the agenda and to have a serious debate about it, which is this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and the Code of Conduct. We have repeatedly discussed the politics of the Republic of Serbia towards various security integrations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the end of the line, tomorrow we'll have a session here that will refer to that question. Regardless of the reasons behind the debate were to confirm the different contracts that the Republic of Serbia had with NATO the pact had never been a serious debate in the National Assembly on this issue. Of course, in the context of the overall security policy of the Republic of Serbia and the role that the NATO Pact plays in relation to the threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. As far as this agreement itself is concerned, he has a series of provisions that are extremely problematic. Even in Article 2, they are directly intruding into the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly what I want to talk about in this debate. In light of this bill, a history of the development of the Republic of Serbia's relations with the NATO Pact has been given, with an emphasis, in the final line, by top government and military representatives that these relations will deepen through the participation of the individual partnership action plan. Next to those other programs NATO pact has. The proposal for this agreement, signed between the former secretary general and the defence minister of the Republic of Serbia, is also on track. The first question is whether we needed and what is the reason and what is the benefit of the Republic of Serbia from signing such an agreement. Through a series of provisions, and in particular the reasoning of this law, it is said that it is necessary for Serbia to obtain a large part of the information declared secret by NATO standardisation, which is necessary to the Republic of Serbia in the reform process and Serbia's army, based on the work of the NATO defence reform groups. As far as we all know, a large number of Allied publications or standardisation agreements are public and we cannot, nor have we received any information that is further information needed by Serbia to implement the necessary reforms and participate in this process. We didn't get that kind of explanation, and it would be very important if we got it here. I repeat, on the site of this military alliance you have the possibility of access to a large number of these joint publications or standardisation contracts. The key problem is how to protect this information. We have a direct impact here and an incursion in the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. It is said in Article 2. – The Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts the obligation of all its citizens to request or to have access to military information, to exchange activities by the National Council. They've been subject to proper security clearance. At the very least, we would have no objection to the way security checks are carried out under the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, but further provisions say that the security check process will determine whether an individual, a person who has the possibility of accessing information whether it is a person, is appreciated by his loyalty and reliability. Obviously from the spectrum of the agreement loyalty and reliability is a NATO pact theme, because it is difficult to imagine that persons who perform official duties, state officials, do not have loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is hypothetically possible, but it is assumed that they work well in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and that the very fact that they are in charge of state functions has certain and patriotic initiatives to carry out their duty to the greatest extent possible. However, the fact that the entire process is being checked and loyalty assessments are being introduced by the NATO Security Office, which, together with the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, will determine each other, is said in Article 5, that the receiving party is ready to protect information, says that the NATO Pact will directly interfere with its institutions in an assessment that the person may possess information concerning it and will assess the loyalty and reliability of state officials of the Republic of Serbia. This is absolutely unacceptable for the Republic of Serbia and I do not see any interest in the Republic of Serbia entering into relations with this military alliance with such provisions. It remains, of course, also a vague matter in the preamble to this contract, which means that the Republic of Serbia is a co-operative partner country. We have repeatedly discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the role of the NATO Pact, not only in recent history, which is painful for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but we have repeatedly returned here to victims and bombings and material damages than to the fact that, at this time, the NATO Pact, through its role in KIM, directly threatens the security of the Republic of Serbia, is involved in training Kosovo's security forces and is actively involved in the creation of the army. I've talked about this several times in the National Assembly and I think it's very important that this segment is extremely practical. In relation to this military alliance, we need to discuss it with him. It is a topic that will directly affect the security of the Republic of Serbia in the future. Now we can't hypothetically think about how long NATO's pact will remain in KIM space. KFOR. The announcements from the Lisbon Declaration at the last summit or strategy speak of withdrawal. He may retire in 10, 15 years, but he will leave the created army of the false state of Kosovo. If you follow the statements of the representatives of these so-called so-called so-called representatives. institution below, they absolutely believe that during 2012, the process of creating an army of Kosovos is being entered. Of course, there's that provision that says they're going to assess whether they're so-called. Security forces have reached a certain capacity and level to give themselves a NATO pact, but this is the fact that Serbia will face in two years, in five years, in 10 years, that in the space of its territory, we all believe that Kosovo is our territory, we have armed forces and the question is how we will deal with that fact in a situation where KFOR itself will one day withdraw from it. Against whom are these forces directed, and what is their purpose, and why are they created? That's the role NATO pact plays in KIM space. I know that government and ministers have pointed out this, but it was absolutely not enough, absolutely unacceptable to go into the atmosphere when these forces are being trained, regardless of the role they are currently given, but we see a tendency to build an army, to go into deeper processes and to co-operate with this organisation is simply said that NATO is expected to have executive authority over the security sides of Kosovo to not reach full operational capacity, which NATO itself will decide. He can decide in a year if NATO's policy is to withdraw its forces from there and go to other places in the world. We think it is very important for the long-term protection of the security interests of the Republic of Serbia to take this issue seriously and take into account all the serious strategic documents in the area of security, but we talked more about this when it came to the debate on the reports, the preparations themselves and the Army itself. All of this is highly connected and all of this is deeply affecting our relations with this military alliance. We believe that in no way should we go further deepening relations with the NATO Pact until we discuss this matter because it is really difficult to explain that you are entering deeper phases of relations within the framework of the Partnership for Peace and Programmes that the NATO Pact has, individual national partnerships, the concept of operational capacity. We may even participate in certain NATO-led operations, while he is training forces that threaten, directly threatening the security of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that in the national security strategy, the most important strategic document adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that Kosovo's declaration of independence is the biggest security threat to the Republic of Serbia, and that is correct. We agree with that. But that threat did not produce that act itself, but the fact that a certain armed force is being created there, which may have hostile intentions towards the Republic of Serbia at some point, and we have to think about it. And that armed force is training, preparing and forming a NATO pact. Therefore, in this sense, and in absolute terms, I say those issues that are raised about the protection of information, in particular what information this is and what it needs for the Republic of Serbia in the defence process - we have not received any arguments from the text itself. A further issue has been raised in the public lately, which I say has again remained at the level of statements and without reason and has introduced some confusion and ambiguity, which is an announcement of an amendment to the text of the Kumanov Agreement, which would refer to the topic concerning the presence of our forces in the zone of air security and the land safety zone. I am not sure that this matter will only end in this, and certainly, that if one of these processes is quite dangerous, because there are things in the Kumanovo Agreement itself, regardless of the fact that we know after which it is adopted, there are things that are in the deep interest of the Republic of Serbia, because they are talking about the borders of the Republic of Serbia towards Albania and Macedonia, because they are talking about the possibility of the presence of Serb forces in the KIM space and because, in the end of the line, they are talking about the possibility of KFOR protecting and disarming forces that are directly threatened by the security of the old signatories, in the extreme line here, and the Republic of Serbia. Very complex and very complex issues that are the subject of debate. We, I speak here as president of the DSS, said that, in addition to the fact that this serious debate with the NATO Pact is needed, before deepening or considering further co-operation within the Partnership for Peace and Participation in some other programmes, this issue concerning the direct security of the Republic of Serbia is discussed. We also believe that the Republic of Serbia should support all those security integrations that contribute to the achievement of universal principles relating to security and related to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. We felt that Serbia should support the idea that came from Russian Federation President Dimitri Medvedeva, which refers to a new framework agreement on security in Europe, as it directly concerns the interest of the Republic of Serbia, as it speaks of recognising the status of a military neutral state. It says that security disputes can not be settled unilaterally beyond all participants of the agreement, as it guarantees the territorial integrity of all the countries that have joined the agreement. At the very end of the line, it can certainly contribute to an increase in peace and security throughout Europe. Also, we believe that the Republic of Serbia, this initiative has come here to the National Assembly, should be an observer in the organisation of collective security arrangements. At the end of the line, to be present in all institutions and all forums where security is discussed as one military neutral country. We think that we would contribute, of course, by working with everyone and participating in this co-operation with the NATO Pact within the Partnership for Peace, but by working with anyone who can contribute to the protection of the security and defence interests of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is a unilateral turn towards only one military alliance, something that will certainly not contribute to protecting the security interests of the Republic of Serbia. At the very end of the line, we had examples that members of this military alliance were also at war with each other. Who tomorrow guarantees that if the Republic of Serbia, if its interests are not protected, or someone estimates that Serbia is jeopardizing its interests, and if NATO is thought to be a security umbrella for all its members, it will not come into such a situation to apply force. You never know that. As one area of major turbulence of political and security, the Balkans is an example of where security is important and where Serbia, with all the experiences it has, must take care of how this applies. In any case, this proposal for an agreement that directly affects us in the good part, and in the end, we also have a law relating to data protection, our law adopted here in 2009, and we can certainly protect, to the greatest extent possible, everything in terms of relationships with anyone in the context of the exchange of security information, we can apply our right as well. But previously, we must discuss this topic of NATO's participation in the KiM space in order to participate in further relations in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56956	Eighteen minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to the Minister of Defence, Dragan Sutanovac, based on Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly of the way we work today and tomorrow. On the basis of article 87, we'll be working longer than 1800 hours today. Once we've completed the search for a joint principled search that is currently under way, we'll move on to the next continent, a single search. Today, we will have two other points of a single search – decisions on the organisation of the National Assembly Service and decisions on the education of the Commission for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. After the final search and about this continent, we'll finish work for today. Tomorrow, on Thursday 30 June, at 10.00 a session was scheduled on current topics on the proposal and request of the SRS parliamentary group, and from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, on the basis of the obligation and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that each last Thursday the government responds to the questions of the MPs, a working day will take place from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, asking parliamentary questions and answers. You'll be notified during the session, anyway, on time. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56957	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteeming this Parliament and the knowledge of the MPs, I felt it was necessary to have an opening statement to confirm the agreement that has five points and that stand on one side. It will simply be easy for all of you who want to read, to understand that it is not a conspiracy or any other thing, which God does not give to Serbia, to lead closer or further to the North-Atlantic alliance. The agreement is a team that has signed all NATO member states as well as about 40 non-NATO countries that are in status as well as Serbia. The agreement should allow us to exchange information with non-NATO countries, as it regulates the way information is exchanged, the way in which certain officials are kept and the way in which they have the opportunity to come into contact with the law, with these documents. The fact is, there's a law on the protection of classified information. I have to thank him for being mentioned here. The protection law has just been done by the EU's highest standards using NATO standards in this regard. So we're already working on that and on that standard, and there's nothing new. The fact is, too, that the agreement provides for certain security checks to be carried out for those persons who come in contact with classified documents. I have to say, since security checks are being carried out on their own for all those working in the security system -- in the military, in the police, in the security agencies, that's how these checks will be done, and for those who come in contact with those data that's being exchanged. There is no dilemma that loyalty and reliability must first of all be expressed towards the state of Serbia, according to this, and is defined by the law on its employer. None of the people working in the defence system should be loyal and reliable to any other state, primarily Serbia, but must be committed to something called peace and be committed to something called the code of conduct, compared to what is being signed. There is really no segment of this agreement that treats the Kumanian Agreement or treats KIM and treats our neutrality or any of those issues that are often mentioned here. But I must say that if such an agreement did not pass ratification in Serbia's parliament, it would mean that Serbia is isolated in the defence system, which would be very bad for the security of all Serbian citizens and those who are affirmative and those who are against it, simply the security of citizens is indivisible and we cannot look at it from a political angle compared to the sympathy of an organisation. On the other hand, I really don't know, when you're talking about the offer that came from Moscow, I haven't had a chance to read any official offer once, or see which countries are involved. I don't know which countries within the organization were at war or war. I can remember what countries have been at war in the second pact of their own time, but this document that is being ratified today, which has only five members that you can put on one side of the road, does not treat any of these issues, and does not need any of the citizens of Serbia, especially those MPs that I really think you have a very great experience of worrying about and having some anxiety about confirming this agreement. I remind you, in 2006, we joined the Partnership for Peace, I do not remember as parliamentarian that at the time Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica came to parliament and explained why we are joining this partnership. No one then addressed parliament and said Serbia is strategically oriented towards the partnership. We felt that this was one logical trail of things, what is actually confusing is that those who were then the greatest advocates of association in this partnership today have the most negative comments, but simply the call was sown in 2006 and I believe that the greatest fault of what you think is bad lies in those who did it that year. However, regardless of whether we would analyse further history of the event, I would like to say that this agreement is in no way binding on Serbia, in terms of providing any information. We protect our interests in the way that it is necessary, and this agreement means that if we provide someone with our information that he too is bound to protect our interests in the way that it is defined by this agreement, as we are obliged to protect their interests on ours, which is defined by this agreement. So there is no single point in the agreement that threatens security, on the contrary, this is about one integration with some 68 countries, which are the signatories of this agreement and which should allow us to share with all of them a large amount of information that we need, but not just us. Today, it is no secret that the defence system is doing reforms that are even better than in some countries, which have long been in NATO. It's no secret that from the east and west our partners are coming to hear and exchange our experiences, to see how we managed to complete a great process of professionalization in such a short time. It is no secret that we have received congratulations and there are official notes and from representatives of the eastern armies, specifically our general staff of the Russian army, and also from the Western armies, all of them want to cooperate with us and I don't see what would make it impossible for me today to isolate Serbia and that in that isolation simply, we would lose the most, and on the other hand there are 68 countries that are signatories to the agreement, and we are on this side alone. So any kind of isolation in the matter of security doesn't mean we're gonna get past a problem that can come along. Getting your head in the sand is so good if you only keep your head. But we want to hear the entire organism, and I think this is one of the most natural and necessary things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56958	Right on line, two minutes, MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56959	We have repeatedly disputed here the fact that the Republic of Serbia joined the Partnership for Peace in 2006. The framework agreement was signed on 14 December by the President, Boris Tadic, but the fact that in 2006, accession to a partnership for peace, Serbia was given the opportunity, you also know it well, and I believe a large number of MPs, to determine the extent of co-operation, because this programme allows relations with the NATO Pact. We can say that level will be that we don't participate in any program, that level will be that we participate in just some goals or want the deepest possible co-operation. That's exactly what this debate I've been having today was all about. We can't deepen co-operation, nor create new contracts with that alliance that makes us a problem for our safety, how in the end you defined the rest of national security. That the Partnership for Peace is a measure for our co-operation with the NATP Pact but we cannot deepen co-operation or create new contracts if we have a problem regarding our security and in which NATO directly participates, and that is the essential thing, I think it's a question that we run multiple times but for the sake of the public, Serbia says, we want to participate in this scope. He can say today we will not participate until we see what you are doing when it comes to Kosovo security forces and it is not isolation. I believe it is a partner relationship, to say the words, we feel a threat to what you are doing, training Kosovo's security forces. Are you gonna keep doing this or not? You say we will, so we have no interest in participating in this further with you. As far as you've mentioned, something has arrived in the assembly, I believe you don't know, has arrived from the Parliamentary Assembly, the organisation of a military parliamentary security proposal (President: Two minutes). Thank you. )......................................................................................................... .. a proposal to participate in the parliamentary work of this military alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56960	I thank and pray to all the MPs who will receive the right to reply, for good practice and for having a basis for replication, for trying to expose our political views without misleading the public. The contract currently under consideration was reached in 2008. Please, let's not talk about things that are harshly in conflict with the facts contained in the agenda, anything else is possible. Promote your political views within the Rules of Procedure, do everything but not allowed to speak beyond the facts which are content and topic of the agenda. Only it shouldn't be in conflict, everything else is, of course, a parliamentary debate. Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56961	Just for a little while, I have no desire to have a replica but simply to explain. Non-participation, i.e. non-stratification of members of Serbia's military on information exchange, education, training, etc. is the worst possible option in the defence system. There's no worse decision to lead us to isolation than to isolate ourselves from school. To isolate ourselves from the possibility of training, from the possibility of training, from learning new skills of war, from the fight against organised crime that is being treated today and also as a security problem and military against cyber crime, etc. Any desire today for Serbia to be among the EU-developed countries and finally join Europe, and the way we isolate ourselves on any issue is simply unacceptable. I have full confidence in all Serbian army officers that they are honest and honest people and I have no concern that they are loyal and reliable in Serbia, but I am also fully convinced, as many Serbian scientists have completed their full affirmation in the West, such as many of our artists to say intellectuals educated in the West, they will not be fewer Serbs than they have finished school there and left Serbia either in courses or in trainings, etc. I don't think there's really any fear, this story you're talking about right now in the Kosovo Force, I remind you that this activity from NATO's cost, or Quar, was created after 2008 rather than before. When we first signed secrets, we didn't. So that kind of concern you're showing today simply can't be compared to this 2008 agreement. On October 1st and was prepared at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, whose member I was, we all worked together and prepared to sign the agreement and it is no secret that it is one of the agreements signed and handed over to the administration during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, handed over by Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. So talking about some sequences where probably citizens don't follow are not exactly in progress you'd have an obligation to talk about what's true. The third thing is, what came to Serbia's parliament, it would really be totally unnatural for me to deal with it. I am not authorized to control the mail that comes to Serbia's parliament. If someone invited parliamentarians to participate in something, I'm certainly not the one who stopped you. On the contrary, I think it is high time for you to participate, as you participate in other activities, freely. Any participation that contributes to the security of Serbian citizens is, as far as we are concerned, always welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56962	Right on the line, and this ends the long line. It's two minutes. National MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56963	That's exactly what we're talking about, Mr. Minister. Indeed, it is not the same situation when it comes to the security of the Republic of Serbia before Kosovo's declaration of independence and afterwards. The activities that were before that were one way of observing our security position, and then something else entirely. NATO's role in the pact is especially seen after the event, when it began to implement what was written in the rejected Ahtisaari plan. The question is whether we can lead one policy towards this military alliance, which until that moment, in the same way and after the events that took place in February of the month, which directly concerns our sovereignty and our security. We don't think we can. It's just one important event for our own safety. We say that now in light of this event you should define what our tasks are. No one's saying we shouldn't train our officers. It's not all the tasks you're predicting here, the declared attitude, that we're participating tomorrow, I don't know where either. So we need to define what our defense system needs in this cooperation. I believe it's something we're interested in. I personally think and that is where we differ politically, that after the event we should not deepen co-operation in other segments of the Partnership for Peace and Programmes that lead us tomorrow towards participation probably in some NATO operations or participation in something that I don't think is the security interest of the RS at this point. Everything that contributes to strengthening our defence system, absolutely with everyone and within the Partnership for Peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56964	The word has been issued by MP Bozidar Delic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56965	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today here in this joint search we have several points that practically begin from fighting crime, through diplomatic issues, trade, culture, sports and end with the Security Information Agreement between Serbia and the North Atlantic Organisation, or the NATO Pact. Right at the beginning to point out the position of the SRS. When it comes to the various laws here on confirming the agreement, since these are countries that have not recognised KIM, our position on this matter is well known. However, when it comes to this legislation on the confirmation of an agreement between the RS-NATO government signed in 1.10.2008, which we are discussing in 2011, the position of the SRS is absolutely negative and against. I don't think that we're unique in that attitude. We're not alone in that attitude. Today 85-90% of Serbian citizens oppose Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact, and especially this NATO pact engagement in Libya reminds us and this aggression on Libya reminds us of not so long ago... (President: National MP, with all due respect for the argument to be used, still I ask you to talk about an agreement signed by the Government in 2008, and now it is subject to ratification. To try to stick to a topic without Libya and political views that are too far away from the topic that is directly the topic of the agenda. ) It's very connected, these are all security issues related to the NATO Pact.. (President: People's MPs, not security issues. The war in Libya and membership of NATO countries that have recognised Kosovo or have not recognised Kosovo, those who are not members, those who are some are, and some are not, are not the subject of this agenda. I'm asking you about an agreement that's on the agenda. ) However, if this is a humanitarian intervention for you, we present the position of the SRS... (President: People's Parliament, I now warn you. I warn you that you deliberately violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and insult me, as chairman, because you say things you cannot know. You can't know what I think about what and what kind of character intervention has in Libya. It's my job to apply the Rules of Procedure. It's your job to apply the Rules of Procedure. The subject of the agenda, a member of 106 who obliges me to interrupt and remind you, and obliges you to apply it or participate together in an unpopular process of expressing the measure of caution. Yeah, yeah, you're the only one doing your job. This is the fourth agreement to be signed with the NATO Pact. It began with that agreement on the transit of the troops of Vuk Draskovic, and then the explanation was that it would not be repeated in 2004, that there is a need to ensure that NATO forces are transited in time to protect themselves at KIM. Then, we had that famous SOFA agreement, which was signed by the president of the state. We recently had an agreement on the codification, standardisation and adoption of the NATO Pact codification system. Today we have an Agreement on the Security of Information and Code of Conduct. Three years ago, at a scientific meeting involving representatives of the Ministry of Defence, one of them questioned journalists about the defence ministry's position on Serbia's position and what is going on in the ministry, said Serbia's silent membership into NATO pact was under way. At a scientific meeting this year, another term has been used, says a crawling NATO integration. Gentlemen, and from the representatives of this parliament, from fellow Members of Parliament, on two occasions I had the opportunity to hear that Serbia would quickly become a member of the NATO Pact. Therefore, not only on behalf of the SRS, but on behalf of these 85-90% of the citizens who oppose it, I present our position. If the representatives of the ministry, as well as the MPs, were able to do so, I repeat, it is said at the parliamentary Rose -- a rock seminar in Skopje, as well as last year at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Warsaw. Even at the question of the parliamentary assembly's chairmanship, how Serbia will become a NATO member and how much support it is from Serbia's citizenship, our colleague said support is 25%, but there will be no referendum in Serbia, that the assembly will not discuss it and that the government will bring such a position. What I've heard is absolutely the opposite of everything that's being said here in the congregation. That is the opposite of the 2007 resolution on military neutrality. It's perfectly justified when we put that attitude here, because we've heard it in multiple places. This attitude should also be heard by the citizens of Serbia. We say that, according to our country, double standards apply in the international community and that is true. We often hear him speak and rule the part, and almost always the opposition. You see, those of us who are hit, when double standards are applied to us, we are ready to apply double standards and we are witnessing this kind of behavior of this congregation. While on the one hand everything that comes from the NATO Pact, every proposal, every agreement, without any problem going through here in the Assembly, this initiative that has been going on for two years, and it is normal that the minister has no knowledge of it because it is an initiative to this Parliament alone, that parliament forms a parliamentary delegation, and that is, in the role of observers, to monitor the activities of the ODKB. Talks held in the Assembly with the heads of all parliamentary groups or large parliamentary groups, no one refused and was not opposed to forming the delegation. More initiatives and more letters, and that's not what happened. Mr. Secretary says he doesn't mind. Everyone reasonable says, if you are militaryly neutral, show that you are neutral, be present on both sides and on the other side, and we, with this kind of behavior, are just showing that we have already settled, because we reject all initiatives on the other hand. There would be only observers, and our delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is in the capacity of an associated member, and that is not the problem, after all, because we are monitoring all the activities of this parliamentary delegation. Something any man would accept, any man you'd meet on the street, not representatives and elected representatives of the citizens here in the Assembly, that kind of initiative just can't go through. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, every agreement and every law on the confirmation of these agreements, when discussed, is said to be due to the Partnership for Peace. When Mr. Minister explained in 2008, he said this was necessary so that we could take some further steps in our activities related to the Partnership for Peace. You see, the minister signed the agreement in 2008, we need to ratify it in 2011, and in the meantime there were no problems in implementing these activities related to the Partnership for Peace. The Partnership for Peace Agreement itself does not mention anything, but it is mentioned when it comes to reasoning, because when it comes to the NATO Pact, we are all trying to explain what we need to do for the Partnership for Peace. The previous fellow MP also spoke about the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia, he also said that it is unacceptable to deepen co-operation with the NATO Pact and because the NATO Pact is training security forces or, to say that everyone understands, the Kosovo Army and the Metohija. If then it is said that the importance of this agreement is due to the Partnership for Peace, yes, the agreement was signed by the minister earlier, but after that was followed by the opening of a mission of the Republic of Serbia to the NATO Pact in Brussels, but when it is said that this agreement allows us to participate uninterruptedly in establishing a Partnership for Peace Mechanism, and then says – schooling members at NATO School in Germany, then – at NATO College in Rome and especially the participation of members of our military and security forces in the NATO Pact commands and institutions. What are they gonna do there? If it were said here, and we could see it in that closed session, where all the members of our army are educated, and if it were ensured that members of our army are schooled, both in schools belonging to certain military alliances and also in some other schools of some other countries, it might be acceptable, because ultimately, we need to learn about both tactics and training and other armies. This also implies that we at these NATO schools will meet with officers of the military, so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. Is it acceptable for our officers to be educated together with the KIM terrorists? And our president didn't go to some international gatherings attended by the president and representatives of KIM. So this explanation, Mr. Minister, which you gave to my esteemed DSS colleague, you share it with the president of the state, because if you say it's a shame, then I should draw a logical conclusion that it's a shame that the president of Serbia didn't go to such meetings, because if he had gone there, it would have been good for the Republic of Serbia. Now, I support this initiative and this procedure by the president of the state when he didn't want to sit at the same table with the representatives of the quasi-republic of KIM. Whatever you think, gentlemen of the ministry, our fear and our explanation here should be seen as a well-intentioned criticism. After all we've heard in this assembly and by the ministry's representatives, we believe that when all these agreements are signed, it will no longer matter one day whether Serbia is a member of NATO's pact, because it will in fact behave as if it were a NATO pact member, when it signs all the agreements signed by NATO countries. The explanation that it was signed by 64 or more other states doesn't matter to us at all. We don't take care of other countries. We are for good neighbourly co-operation, we are for developing economic, cultural and all other relationships, but we are primarily here thinking and only taking care of our country, about our country, about the Republic of Serbia. For our position, we have the support of most Serbian citizens. You will probably say in your comment that no one is talking about the NATO Pact, and we say – sometimes it does not matter what is said, it is much more important what is done, and also through this agreement and through some other things we feel that it is precisely that Serbia is a NATO partner, perhaps not NATO member, but it is a state that will by no means differ from other NATO members. This, after all, confirms to us the totally unnecessary double standards that you and the ministry have no contact with, but which are applied here in the Assembly by the ruling majority, when it comes to organising collective security agreements. Therefore, not only when it comes to this agreement, there may be more, we will always be the SRS' position. No agreement with the NATO Pact, because every agreement with NATO pact is direct and a finger in Serbia's citizens, and that majority part of Serbia's citizens, who, hopefully, will know how to define among those who would introduce Serbia into the NATO Pact and those who are only Serbia and its security in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56966	It's been used 17 minutes since the authorized representative's time. You've got three more minutes at your disposal. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56967	Thank you. Unfortunately, I can't talk about the question in terms of -- one man told me, it happened there, one said this, and the other confirmed that. Unfortunately, I was not present at these meetings and I am glad that you participated in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which is where and where much stronger ties to Serbia, but this agreement. Your presence at such meetings is a definition of yours which is obvious to strengthen alliances within the framework of the partnership as you said at the conclusion of your speech. On the other hand, since you have a desire for some percentage of more citizens to win, you're using even flossules where you say that you represent the interests of 85 to 90% of the members of this Parliament, I don't know, these others, probably the interest of 10 or 15%, but it doesn't seem to be democracy and it just doesn't work that way. It may not matter to you which 68 countries signed this information exchange agreement, but let's see, since Serbian citizens should have that information, the organisation of a collective security agreement or ODKB is mentioned, so if we say that the Russian Federation is the backbone of that organisation, and the Russian Federation signed this agreement as early as 1995. So, we've been late for this cooperation for about 16 years. If you think such leadership has made a mistake, the Russian Federation, you can initiate a procedure for them to break that contract. I'm sure they'd listen to you for sure. However, what is also important to know, Serbian Army officers who are schooling at colleges in the world do not yet come into contact with representatives of Kosovo's security forces, and that is the thing that is currently a factual state. If you think we're going to stop schooling one of our cadets at a military academy around the world, if they accept to educate one of the Kosovo security forces, I think it would be a catastrophic mistake and that would bring Serbia back to centuries. I would remind you that there are a large number of young people in Serbia, who at this time, unbound by the Serbian Army, are schooled at various universities around the world, and it is very possible that there are people in those universities who are educated from Kosovo. If we approach this way of thinking, I'm afraid Serbia would return, not to the 14th century, but to many centuries before that. Isolation, as the main motive of your policy and as the main affirmation of your policy, simply, in Serbia is no longer possible, and of course, I am talking about everything my predecessor talked about. I see he's listening to me very carefully, and these others may not understand, so I apologize if you didn't understand Mr. Delic. I speak Serbian, sir, my roots are from Serbia and my father and my mother, and I have no problem with...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56968	I ask the People's Messengers not to win and not to think, I pray they don't get it now. If any participants in the session violates any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they will be interrupted and I will remind them of the obligation to respect the provisions. The Minister of Defence has not broken any provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in his own sentence. He answers the questions and attitudes expressed by MP Bozidar Delic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It is his obligation and he fulfils it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now with a warning, I ask you to refrain and stop throwing and violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56969	If you please, I also took certain courses in Garmispartenkirchen, they are done in English, French and Russian. A recent conference held in Serbia had a parallel and Russian translation. Our NATO college officers have the opportunity to get acquainted with Russian officers, and in my mandate, at the Ministry of Defence, I think eight Serbian Army officers have completed a certain education in the Russian Federation. On the other hand, an officer from the Russian Federation has completed his training in Serbia, currently two from China, one from China, so that the story about schooling, I think it's really poorly conceived and it doesn't lead us to our officers having knowledge and opportunities, but simply isolation. It is no secret that your entire policy, the policy of isolation and dark Serbia, in which you would be saying exactly what is necessary, not what is truly Serbia's own insatiable need. Education in the country of Serbia is one of the most important things that we have and we will do everything that, at least in the defence system, our officers are educated by the latest standards of the world's most modern armies, as much as it bothers you or not, I must tell you that the criticisms you are giving about this, you must be aware that you are referring precisely to those members of the ODKB, who, with our officers, attend these military schools together. Please, you used to be an officer, use only facts and speak freely of who it is and when and where he said, what he said, by name and last name, and do not hide behind the floscule – told me one man, we had the opportunity to watch that play in the theater and it was funny enough but far from the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56970	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56971	Mr. Minister, you started with this - a man told me, and this man has a name and name, MP DS, Mr. Samofalov, now you know that this is your young MP, recently completed and military deadline. You said the radicals were present at the NATO Pact Parliamentary Assembly. It is precisely necessary for radicals to attend, because, in addition to monitoring these activities of the Parliamentary Assembly, they follow and how our MPs behave. Do they protect Serbia's interests or anyone else's interests?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56972	People's MPs, such claims are inadmissible. You have no authority, none of the People's Messengers have the authority to follow any other People's Messenger. I ask you best to be careful how you express yourself about other MPs. I understand both passion and politics, but which is too much, it's too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56973	It is precisely thanks to members of the DSS delegation and the SRS, that our delegations are assured that, apart from these few outbursts, they will be unique and to correct resolutions that were not in favour of Serbia in the Parliamentary Assembly, which were most often about KIM resolutions. Mr. Secretary, just because I'm a member of this delegation, I've also met with the greatest criminal from the NATO Pact, Wesley Clark, so I've had a chance to ask him how he's committed an aggression against our country's legal and without a decision. For you, his answer should be interesting - we have not reached a consensus within the NATO Pact. That's about the answer we could hear in a kindergarten. As far as the SRS is concerned, and as for what you said about schooling, we said it shouldn't be and should not be educated on one side alone... (President: Two minutes. Here, another 30 seconds. ... , but if our officers are going to school, then they should be educated in several countries, but what you're saying now is education in some other countries, it's just individual cases, and education in NATO schools and NATO courses is mass, absolutely mass.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56974	Thank you. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56975	I answered during the speech of Minister Sutanovac, and I wanted to speak on the basis of a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure, and in the meantime you have injured Article 27, Mrs. Komic, because you have not given me a word in the Rules of Procedure, and I have shown myself to the Rules of Procedure. So you should have given me your word right away. But breaking the Rules of Procedure on your part is quite common and I know that at the end of this intervention you will say that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, although at least as far as Article 27 is concerned, it is absolutely undeniable that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure. As for Article 107, Minister Sutanovac has violated the dignity of the National Assembly... (President: People's MPs, participants of the session cannot harm the Rules of Procedure, I can, as chairman, fail to see that the participants of the session have violated the Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexander Martinovic, from the post:How do you impose sanctions if we cannot harm? (President: Please don't throw it away. So, you, Mrs. Komic, have injured the Rules of Procedure, you have injured Article 107, because you have not responded...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56976	You can't ask for a word to hurt the Rules of Procedure as the participant speaks, and before you know if I'm going to interrupt the speaker and react. Please speak your argument carefully. You said you answered your word during the speech of Minister Sutanovac, because he hurt the Rules of Procedure. I interrupted you from reminding you that the minister, nor the participant of the session, can harm the Rules of Procedure, and you claim that he is not a minister, but I am, and you knew that the moment the minister spoke and presented his argument. I'm sorry, a little more careful explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56977	I'm now reporting on the basis of article 107. It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Here, as a lawyer, I interpret differently, but since you have the knife and the cake, let it be that you, Mrs. Komic, have injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have injured the dignity of the National Assembly because you have not responded when one of the participants, and this is the representative of the Government, Mr Sutanovac, to whom the Rules of Procedure applies absolutely the same as to all the MPs, insulted the SRS parliamentary group, by saying ironically that we do not understand what our colleague Bozidar Delic said during the debate. To such insinuations and such comments, you regularly react to any SRS MP. Here, since it's allowed to say that someone doesn't understand something, I'm now saying that the tragedy of this country is at the head of this resort and that it's a member of the government, Mr. Sutanovac, who doesn't understand the word patriotism, who doesn't understand what Serbian national interests are...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56978	I ask you not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to try to insult other participants by inventing and violating the Rules of Procedure, which prohibits you from talking about what other people think and feel. This is the last warning, after which, if you insist, we will fully adjust the course of the session strictly to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Does anyone else want a word, presidents or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups? (Zoran Krasic, from town: No one should. People's MPs earn that no one can. I can think of anything, but if there's 250 people in this room who can't do anything, it's just not true. Here sits 250 brave men. So, do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to use their right at this time of the session before we move on to application for a word? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the LDP, New Serbia and the SRS parliamentary group. We move to a part of the session where the right to speak is given to MPs in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in a joint single search of the proposals of the law from the point. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is the MP Nenad Prokic, followed by the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56979	Dear fellow ministers, we are, of course, for any further agreement with the North Atlantic Alliance. It will only help our ambassador, Branko Milinkovic, in Brussels to do his job in a way that would make him more comfortable and efficient. For you, Mr. Minister, we can say that you are the minister with the best effect in this government, who has not happily brought her mandate to an end. You guys had a couple of real results last year that we can say hello to. Our children don't have to freeze in barracks anymore. After all that they had experienced for the past 20 years, they experienced the legal concept of youth law yesterday. After hunger, terror, unemployment, exodus, well, at least somebody helped them, not have to spend a year of their lives, with which they don't know what they're going to do in a country that doesn't give them any chance of being freer than before. Since he is no longer at war as at the time of Duke Mišic, by pulling the cannon out of a hill for horses, so burn, we believe that you are on a good path to modernize and professionalize our army. You'll have all the allies in us on that plan. You have also helped us not to sneak around the NATO Pact as much as you can in the framework of a public policy run by this government. I was in a parliamentary delegation in Brussels, at the NATO Pact headquarters. It was also some sort of blizzard around the NATO alliance. I just don't know how long it takes and how long it takes to get an education on what NATO is a pact now and what kind of benefits it brings. In that sense, your courage is indeed something that helps us to place our policies and we are grateful and co-operate with you on this plan. There will be no more war on the benefits that this agreement contributes to. If something is good for this fallen society, which the political system has made out of blind poetry, and 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall still doesn't know, hits the head left and right, doesn't know what his interests are, which are his objectives, this will, not only help the security and credit capabilities of the state, but finally consensus on the social interests and objectives around which society should gather around, so that there is no longer the most unfortunate society in the region. There are a lot of failures, and there are a lot of things that shouldn't have happened in the past 20 years, and a referendum really shouldn't have been a solution, because a referendum means a kind of level of education and information for those who decide. Twenty years of education on the subject requires a serious education, so that someone else can decide on all of this, not a government that takes over, on its shoulders a burden on the decision on how society will develop in the future. We saw Prime Minister Putin the other day in Belgrade. I don't think that since the Hungarian Revolution and the Czech Republic in 1968, some Russian official has acted so rudely in a state that he tells us that we can't go to the NATO Pact, that they're against it. Moscow hasn't done that in 40 years. I think that something that is not like any foreign statesman in this country, and especially that is not a way for falsely understood patriotism to stick directly to foreign officials' statements about what this country should do in its policy. I hope that Branko Milinkovic, after both this agreement and a series of agreements, which I assume will come, will be much easier to agree with all other ambassadors on the necessary things needed for professionalisation, for the security that is most important in the region, and that is particularly important for Bosnia, which does not work. She was a 100-year-old Austrian governor, now has an Austrian governor and a NATO pact can provide at least certain guarantees that there will be no more cannon extractions on the hills above Sarajevo, and then four years later you participate in four wars where you didn't participate, and you lost them all. Minister, I am ending up with the hope that you will be able to convince anyone other than us in the need of modernising such an important area for which you are responsible in the Serbian Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56980	Five minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think Mr Prokic has in one inappropriate way questioned the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't know if you've noticed, Mrs. Comic, that Mr. Prokic said, in a rather funny tone, that the Serbian people were raised in the traditions of blind poetry. It is probably a rather inappropriate illusion of Filip Fisnic, who sang many Serbian folk hero songs that were later recorded by Vuk Karadzic. If we are to be ashamed of Filip Fišnic and Vuk Karadzic, then let the LDP gentlemen tell us what role models the Serbian people should follow. Also, I think it's an insult to all the MPs of the people, and I think you were obliged to react to it. I do not enter the right of every parliamentary group to be defined for and against NATO, but I do, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, have a moral obligation to say that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated when in one extremely inappropriate, almost ridiculous context brings people who have done much for the Serbian people and whom the Serbian people have always been proud of. I draw attention to Mr Prokic, for example, to read the entire text of the official French anthem of Marseilles, so there he will see all the terrible words being directed to opponents of the French Revolution of 1789, simply not to give the impression that in the west, all are nice and cultural and peaceful, and that we Serbs are some kind of villains who have caused wars and who have been brought up in traditions, as he says blind poetry, and I say songs that are even taught by the great German writer Geta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56982	There's no breach of article 107, and you know it very well. You don't like the way the other MP explains it, using his own style. Perhaps other MPs do not like the style of other MPs they use, but neither of them is the reason for assessing that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, but it is the reason for the replica of the MP Nenad Prokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56983	Philip Višnić does not need anyone to defend him, he is still on tour of Serbia, visiting cities and villages and I can discuss it personally with him in four eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56984	National MP Zlata Djeric has a word, followed by MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56985	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group will not support this agreement in the voting day, for some reasons that I will only try to explain briefly. So, I'm a woman, I'm not a soldier, and I'm speaking from the position of someone who's a citizen and who's just obliged to say a few things about the NATO Pact and what we think of the NATO Pact, we who are not professional, and we need a little more information to share, maybe someday at some referendum and plead. Of course, referendum issues are never issues of expertise but of emotions and issues of serious propaganda that are being conducted. A serious propaganda stands behind the NATO Pact and its influence on these premises. Whether NATO standards are really perfect standards that need to be accepted is always disputable. I'm one of those who thinks absolutely everything needs to be questioned, including those NATO standards. This Agreement deals with the issue of information. I asked laysky why NATO is just so interested in protecting some information and protecting us from some information and our employees? I would be very interested in being answered because we know that the most expensive commodity in the world is organized by the state, by politics, by war and peace-doping doctrines, by information. War and peace begins, lasts, gets and loses right on the information. That's what history has shown so far. What I would like to say because of the citizens of Serbia, is this cultural identity of the NATO alliance, which is quite different from the Serbian cultural identity, because it is a dynamic-cultural model of military conquerive identity, while we in Serbia recognise it as a defensive freedom identity in military terms. We need to know that the basic cultural pattern of NATO's behaviour is taken over by the Anglo-Saxon culture, in which the right to the preventive use of force is allowed, which is linked to the cultural identity of the United States and Great Britain, mainly, which play a decisive and decisive role in NATO. We need to know that these are two democratic states, of which the United States is based its democracy on an unremembered genocide, not over one nation, but over one whole race, and that Britain is the greatest imperialist and colonial force that has based its entire military doctrine on it. What can largely confuse us here, it is a legitimate question whether the Serbian nation would lose its specific traditional cultural identity by joining NATO. We think you'd lose. By joining NATO, the Serbian state must accept all offered NATO patterns, including the behavior matrix, i.e. to forget its past, Orthodox, Christian and Slovenian cultural identities. In NATO, the basic official language is English, and that is the American version of English, although they are formally equal and French, German and Russian. All correspondence, logistics, direct and indirect, a NATO member takes place in English. All NATO provisional and permanent commands, regardless of what representatives of different members make them, must accept and communicate exclusively in English. So these are some things we need to know when it comes to the NATO alliance. That's where this model of behavior is accepted, and he doesn't have any other alternative offered. NATO is integrated, and Serbia would have to accept the NATO military education system, imposed by the United States and consisted of obtaining a sub-ifice act for 21 weeks of training, not as in Serbia for four years of intensive military education and education. It's similar with officers. So these are some values that differ in the past experience of the Serb army. In addition to reforming military education, Serbia should also accept certain constitutional changes that allow the use of Serb military formations abroad, i.e. NATO commands and reforms the existing civil education system in Serbia and in particular in history, it is an interesting detail, pedagogy and psychology. Certain political structures in Serbia that advocate NATO's alliance as some Serbian Eldorado and which tell us that it has no other alternative, I fear they have quickly forgotten the Euro-American and Western European forms of humiliation that we have suffered in the form of military intervention, bombing, economic blockades, media abuses, including the US-based NATO takeover of the state-national and Serbian sovereignty of KIM. I'll read a few statements with names on those standards that talk about people who represent NATO standards. He says this - the pilot dropped a bomb with good intentions, as you would expect from a trained pilot from a democratic NATO state, according to Jamie Shay, a NATO spokesman on April 15th 1999, the day after the bombing of the Kosovo Albanian refugee column at Djakovica. So, with good intentions on civilians, a bomb was dropped. And then -- we'll see how he feels after a few more weeks and months of turning them into pieces, General Nauman, NATO's commander during Serbia's May 5th 1999 bombing. Then -- the responsibility for the tragedy is on the Serbian forces that forced those refugees to return to Korisha, those table refugees, and to settle in those two facilities, Robin Cook, British Minister of Foreign Affairs, after NATO killed 100 Albanian refugees near Prizren with laser missiles. You'll see the UN building unmounted by brick and throw into the Atlantic Ocean rather than see a NATO pilot in front of the UN-Monson tribunal, an American senator member of the International Relations Committee. Then one such likable statement by an active pilot, says – we are not romantic people, we are all generations. So what stands behind this alliance is certainly a force and power that demonstrates itself in every way. Whether we are in a position to accept it or not, it will, of course, decide some other interests, but we are certainly in a position to at least know who they are, what they are, whether they are our friends or our protectors or why they do not allow us the military neutrality that we have and which we would definitely need at this point. We have many questions for them and better than any interpretation why NATO has imposed a disintegration on the Balkan geospace, why has NATO imposed destabilision on the Balkan geospace, why has NATO imposed a war conflict on the Balkan geospace, why has NATO imposed a historic division into the Western Balkans, which is a special military strategy and interest? Why did the EU NATO not support any integration of Yugoslavia, and why did NATO implement military intervention on Serbia in 1999? No one has ever answered, and for these military interventions there are only questions and a long, long analysis of the damage that was done to us at the time. So NATO alliance is a military alliance with a completely different tradition and different interests than we have. I would just remind myself, once again, that it was that military alliance whose spine made two states, one of which destroyed a billion members of one race, conquering their premises just because they weren't militant enough in their mentality that they were who came to take that space, which founded their democracy on the kidnapped continent and the other who had taken, robbed, burned and burned and founded the greatest colonial imperialist force in the world for centuries. They are now the protectors of someone's peace and independence? It won't be. That's not so easy to believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56986	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56987	Since most of this debate was not about this contract, and in order not to really remain unsettled, I'm interested in you telling me which one billion people were killed somewhere in the world in any activity, and I'm wondering who the people who killed them were? I also want to know if you know where the most Serbs live outside Serbia in the world, and did these Serbs also participate in killing those billions of people and where there are the most Serbian churches and monasteries outside our country's borders, if we are to exclude the Republic of Serbia, and is that in that country where you say a billion people have been killed? And who your president was meeting with before we were able to bring Milosevic down and why he went to the inauguration last time, when they wouldn't let him in, but stayed at the hotel to watch that inauguration, like all the viewers who... (President: Ministers and please, both in replica and in text, respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. ) Simply because it is said this way, I want the citizens of Serbia who are watching this assembly debate simply to demystify certain things that are clearly being written or read in certain blogs or media, which are printed by individuals for whom we all know perfectly where Serbia was being led at the time when they managed this country, but unfortunately at that time we were together against these people. Mr. Velimir Ilic was a member of the Alliance for Change, with us standing, though one six steps behind Zoran Djindjic, but he represented at least the declarative attitudes that differed diametrically from what you are talking about here today. So I'm really interested in you revealing these secrets to me since I was, say, a contemporary, these events, I've attended very often, but the most important thing for me is to tell you who killed a billion people in the history of the human race?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56988	Right on the line, two minutes. National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56989	I'd be happy to answer that, and it's not possible that you really don't know that information. Well, that information, you know how the Indios disappeared from American soil and how North America was conquered and how much, though, whether that data was about a billion or eight hundred million, that's what they're very slow about. The indios, unfortunately, are almost untraceable there. I don't know if you know how much they're trying to fight to keep track of their disappearance, and mostly those who have moved to European countries, who write about it. You know very little here. I'll recommend to you the book of Ronald Wylie "The Kidnapping Continent" which is the documentation of the four most significant tribes of Indios who disappeared on American Continuity. It has nothing to do with the NATO alliance, I was talking about a tradition where this guy's democracy has come up with all the time, not wanting anything else. I said I'm not a military expert, that I'm only talking about a democracy that's been brought to the greatest genocide, and that's a fact you can't argue with. So this has nothing to do with the active involvement of my president or anything else that's going on today. And you weren't the contemporary of it, so some others might think, neither am I, fortunately. The second force I mentioned, Great Britain, you have to admit that this imperial and colonial force is the largest in the world, that the largest colonies were owned by them, one of the greatest colonial forces. These are two different military traditions of the two nations that are the backbone of this alliance. That's all I was talking about. You have to admit that I never speak harshly, I speak very argumentatively, and I say what I haven't read on blogs, this extermination of Indians I've been doing out of personal interest for a very long time and I've studied those books. It's something that's an undeniable fact. To quote to you a Serb who is a professor at the university, you asked me if I knew where the most Serbs are, yes, in America, probably, you know, that number, I didn't follow, although I have some relatives there. The churches there made those about their cost and it's not a dispute, in America everyone can do what they want, as they probably could here... (President: Two minutes. Can I just finish the sentence? So what's just mentioned here, that's our history and tradition and their history and tradition. I will quote to you only one of our Serbs who is a professor at the university who said that today's Indians have fewer rights than stray dogs in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56990	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56991	Besides having no awareness of what a billion and 800 million people are, a billion and eight hundred million people, whether they're Indian or not, is a figure that means all of Europe, Russia, and times three, four or five times. It's just, at that time, it's hard for all mankind to have so many people. But you have a relative who participated, apparently, in that job, as well as a large number of Serbs who conquered that same America. There is no democracy established in the way you speak but simply this democracy has been transferred from Europe to America. However, when we talk today about tradition and traditional Serbian ties, unfortunately, a small number of Serbian citizens know that in three years, there will be a celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Serbian Army's victory in the first battle of World War I, and it is said - in the first Allied battle, in which we were allies precisely with those countries with whom you today say we were not traditionally friendly. With the same countries, we were allies in World War II. With the same countries, we have been allies for many years until we have come into a situation where our policy will be reflected by all those countries that are members of a democratically developed world. I fully understand that today you are fighting here for some citizens who will, thanks to that policy that you are promoting to win, but I remind you that this is not the original policy of either your party or your president. I'm sorry that he came out, I'd like to take him here to the public and ask him - what he's seeing with Merlin Albright, if he thinks it's the kind of policy that brought us here at the time that we are, but unfortunately you're defecting, means that we're traditionally and always on the right side and always with those countries that were also on that side of the fight against fascism, etc. What's our mission is not to deepen misunderstandings and spoil relationships. On the contrary, our mission is to try to make what other 90s have managed to do from Serbia, which is that today we have an extremely bad image in the world, and the loudest ones in Serbia are those who have done this image and that we change this thing and that in Serbia finally the smartest one does not give in and that we put an end to the 20th century when we say that there is indeed a lot more of this fight policy, and at the same time I assume that if you are being treated in some of the hospitals of state or that your children are going to go to school or kindergarten or you need emergency help, you will encounter an immense amount of various medical devices or instruments that we have just received from that world that you would want us to finally have a fight with. Of course, some people don't want to understand it, some people want to play it through media and blogs, and I stress the media of those people that we've all been against in the '90s, and you're like a learned woman reading it and you're still getting out of the context of what's worst. I will not be fascinated by any book, by any individual for whom there is no, let me say, established the basis for being historically documented. I believe they've explored the history of mankind's civilization, but really, if they've come up with the fact that a billion and 800 million people have been killed on any continent, I believe it's now the information that's going to go around the world this day, because really no history has ever recorded any modern history in any single document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56992	Right on line, two minutes, MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56993	I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you're listening on the surface. I said it in the first billion, so I said it's impossible, so I said if it's 800 million or a billion, what's the difference? If only a million people, if only one man was killed in that way, with those motives with which the Indians are in the north, you forgot that it was a continent divided into three continents - South, Central and North America and which was conquered by conquistadors and Europeans in its northern part. It's history. So we don't have to argue about it and you don't have to interpret me all the time and you don't want to interpret me here in the public of Serbia as someone who's a war bully, I'm not. I was talking about tradition, or study, and don't invite me to blogs all the time. I don't like reading blogs, I'm happy to read books. I'm not ashamed of that. I invite you to read a book, too, because as the Chinese say, there are no books in the world from which you will learn something and as soon as you open it, check that claim. She's got to be standing. Don't use your rhetorical skills, which I don't dispute, and your expertise, which I don't dispute, and your professional engagement now to abuse to show me to the public of Serbia as someone who is a warlock. That's absolutely not what I'm talking about. As far as these good intentions are concerned, I always, like everything else, question them, and I have a personal example and personal evidence for that, and I'm not going to elaborate it on you right now. You'd be very unpleasant and very ugly. I'm not the advocate of being our bigger friend than ourselves, but if we had associates and allies, that stands. We were in one alliance in the First and Second World War, we were victims, and we were their interests. Look at a little history after the war, which of the war's damages to the Serbs charged. As former historians say - every foot of Serbian soldiers we paid through the exploitation of our people. It's still a story, we won't deepen it any further. I will never answer you again, no matter what you say to me. I was talking about the facts. I have the right to have a position, I have the democratic right to have a view of this and of the NATO Pact, because one day, the non-information needs to rest the decision, not the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56994	Two minutes. The word has the People's MP Bojan Djuric, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56995	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is difficult after this kind of debate to try to get back to what is the agenda point. Although, I must confess to the minister for having responded to such a speech after all. I think you, Mrs. Comic, were obliged to do so. Of course, after such claims about some countries, I expect the foreign minister and vice president DS Vuk Jeremic to be consistent and to re-condemn the unsuspected vice president to condemn these truly unverified claims. It is impossible to claim in 2011, that in any genocide, anywhere in the world, a billion or 800 million people died, and then to argue that the difference of 200 million is not significant and at the same time leads to such a policy that counts every victim in Srebrenica and leads to unacceptable controversy as to whether there were three, five, or eight thousand victims. I think that also the way this controversy in parliament is being conducted is that the debate on the NATO pact or Serbia's military neutrality or Serbia's general definition of military-political or military-security matters must be opened in a much more serious way. It is great that you ministers are speaking, but your MPs do not respond in such situations as this unfortunate resolution or one sentence in the neutrality resolution, in fact, the KIM Resolution, which contains this declaration, that Serbia will not so far access existing military alliances, do much damage to our country, primarily because of the delusions and confusions it creates in the domestic community. Mr Prokic also spoke in detail about the LDP's position and said that we would vote for both this law and a number of other agreements which unfortunately are not spoken of here, but I would like to perhaps point out even more precisely the problems produced by this unconsistent domestic policy. President Tadic, who is in one part and in charge of this area, particularly when it comes to foreign affairs and security policy, has on several occasions welcomed the decision by all the countries of the region to move towards NATO membership. At the same time, repeating the domestic mantra that for Serbia, for reasons unknown or unexplainable, the best solution is to remain militaryly neutral. However, the situation has been complicated lately, especially with regard to BiH. A few days ago, a domestic television interview with Republika Srpska President Milorad Dodik, who related earlier, or the behaviour of Republika Srpska's representatives in BiH's bodies, namely the country's decision to move towards NATO membership, calling, among other things, for a decision made in Serbia through the resolution, that Serbia will be military neutral. I think it's a simple topic that we also need to discuss in parallel with an agreement that we ratify with BiH or in the situation when we talk about our military, political, any traditions. It may be true that we paid for every shoe through a Serb soldier in World War I and World War II through war damage, but I don't know what kind of war damage or what kind of support we are now paying through a 3 per cent mining contract for the Russian side or through the donated oil industry of Serbia. I can't see any use from that. I apologize to Mr. Sutanovac once again for bringing Mr. Jeremic into a party rank with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56996	Three minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56997	How come, Mr. Sutanovac, they insult your colleague, Jeremiah, and you smile at those comments? It's really not appropriate. (President: People's Parliament, we can remind ourselves together what your obligation is. Your obligation is to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which prohibits you from interpreting the feelings, opinions of other persons, and very carefully in the design of what is the subject of the agenda, use your right to elaborate, without insulting any MP and without insulting the chairman. The man's just laughing, I didn't say anything else. (President: People's Parliament, I now warn you that it is an obligation to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which prohibits you from interpreting anything any other MP of the people has or think as an emotion. It's a visual experience, nothing more. (President: This is a second warning. Then comes the statement of the first warning, and the second warning, and the measure of taking away the words. And the shooting. The NATO Pact is firing, you know. (President: This is the last warning. After this provision, which you intend to violate, I can only answer, interrupt and give you a warning measure. Can I continue? (President: here you go. ) Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whenever Mr. Sutanovac appears here, you have the opportunity to listen to something about the NATO Pact. The agreement ahead of us is another agreement with the NATO Pact, so Mr. Sutanovac whenever there's a story about the NATO Pact. This time it's about an agreement on the security of information. It's a very important agreement, here, again smiling Mr. Sutanovac, which is defined as only five members. It uses general terms that mean nothing, without any concreteity. This led Mr Sutanovac to the MPs, and immediately in the preamble of this agreement, it is concluded that Serbia is a co-operative state for NATO. So it's quite clear that you accept everything the NATO Pact asks of you to the end. In Article 2 of this Agreement, you are talking about an appropriate security check on persons who will handle protected information. But you don't know anything. Of course, you'll leave it all to the sublegals. You'll have enough law on two sides, and then you'll probably have sublaws on 20, 30 pages and who knows what you're going to ask of these people. You say, security clearance procedures will be designed. Well, our MPs are not interested in this formulation, we ask you to predict it in this act. Who's gonna come up with that? Do you want to design? We saw at the beginning of the session that you didn't know how to turn the pills on. You've been approached by a MP younger than the DS to include your pills. You're saying someone doesn't know how to do or know or understand or don't understand? It's just amazing. How will you come up with it? Did you predict the model of designing a security check? Here you have to specifically say what you're going to do, not after sublegal acts, to give yourself the freedom to do whatever you want. You may predict that any soldier or officer who will handle this information is holding a picture of Madeline Albright in the office, since she is the president, the leader of the wise people of the NATO Pact. Maybe it's the object of your worship, we don't really know. You didn't specify it here, and you had to specify it. You say -- that communication takes place between the security bodies in the Republic of Serbia and the NATO office. You didn't see it coming again. You're going out here with some general terms, no specifics, and you think you've done your job with the MPs. No, this is a five-member paper list, no matter what you say it's a model used everywhere. Well, NATO's using it everywhere, but this can't be a general act of seriousness. This can't be adopted through this form at all. So you have to write specifically what it's about. Finally, you say that the agreement was drawn up on 1 October 2008 in two identical copies in English and French. Is it official in Serbia English or French? This is an agreement between Serbia and the NATO Pact. When it comes to Kuwait, you have an agreement in English, Arabic and Serbian. Why isn't there a Serbian language here? Are you ashamed of your Serbian language, Mr. Sutanovac? Who's going to interpret it tomorrow? We know what your translations of the municipalities of acts that come here for adoption in English. We even know that you have paid for some translation of Croatians related to the EU, that they are speeding up the process with their vulgarised Serbian language. What you have stated here, Mr. Sutanovac, is only one simple theory that should cloud citizens' eyes that alleged information between the NATO Pact and the Republic of Serbia will be kept in a certain way, that it will pass a certain methodology and that it will be safe. It's a theory, but what is the practice, Mr. Sutanovac, that you don't want to talk about? Let's see what the real soldiers have been saying about protecting information in the Serbian Army since you've been in power. Do you remember Colonel Zoltan Dani? He shot down F117A, commanding the Third Division of the 250th missile brigade of anti-aircraft defense. They took down something else they did. Here's what he says about classified information in the Army, how you kept them from the NATO Pact. He says -- all the basic unit commanders were in charge of writing a report on how they were doing. In the report, I explained the way we worked. It's logical that all these reports were evaluated as military secrets. First of all, it's about his report on the NATO crash. He says, but after October 5th, there were 10-20 NATO officers in our general headquarters who had access to anything they could think of, whether the military was a secret, a state secret, anything. I'm sure they've studied all the possible reports from the war, because that was certainly the most precious, that's what they asked for first. Based on these reports, they could gain knowledge of range and their combat actions. It was of great importance to them, as they were preparing to invade Iraq, to kill Iraqis. Because you like numbers, that's where the Americans killed a million civilians in a very short time and 500,000 children. He says -- in particular, they wanted to know how it was possible that 120,000 of our soldiers from the active and reserve composition after the Kumanovo Agreement came out of Kosovo and Metohija when they were convinced that during the bombing they had destroyed their positions. That's how they found my report. So you've been giving them everything from the start. What does Zoltan Dani say next, who's the hero of SRJ's defense? He says, after October 5, 2000 -- a man from the DOS then showed me the plan our authorities received. The plan sets out very clearly and precisely the tasks that the new democratic authorities need to fulfil over the next 10 years. The decommissioning of military resources and potentials is one of the key tasks in this plan. To achieve it, DOS representatives received millions of dollars, a good share in cash. Mr. Sutanovac, this is the story of a man who defended and defended the country against NATO aggression, a man who succeeded along with his officers and soldiers to do something that no one had done before, to do freely. Our anti-aircraft defense can be attributed to the shooting down of the B2 strategic bomber, the most expensive plane in the world that costs $2.5 billion. And they knocked that thing down. That's what you do in practice, and this piece of paper you brought in front of us, you're just blurting your eyes. Every time you come here, you mention a NATO pact. Every time you celebrate the NATO Pact. For what? Well, here, on June 3rd, on Friday, Beta agency quoted your President Boris Tadic as saying that Serbia could live with the great Albania if there were agreed solutions. Since the beginning, the NATO Pact strategy has been the creation of a major Albania. It is obvious that the DS strategy is also the creation of a great Albania and you are going on that path. You are knowingly violating Resolution 1244. (President: National MP, agenda theme, Article 106– agenda theme) Please bring your argument and political views on the president of Serbia into contact with the treaty, with an agreement whose ratification we are currently considering. Thank you. In any case, it is logical, therefore, that NATO's promotion of the pact on your part, because you obviously have the same concept, it is the creation of a great Albania and until the end of the destruction of Resolution 1244. (President: People's MP, I asked you a moment ago and warned you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56998	Please don't think that because you have a certain kind of political conviction and conviction that you consider correct, and of course, each of us has a political conviction and conviction that he considers correct. Please do not feel that this allows you to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Petar Jojic has a word. After him, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u56999	Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the state of Serbia and its government must stop ignoring the real needs of our country's security. Serbia's army must get away with the loss of mentality and that our army must be returned to the victory mentality that has been its character throughout history. Madam Vice President, in order to explain these alliances and this subject that's on the agenda, I will speak through history of how it went and how our leaders have been through history... (President: National MPs, please speak on the subject of the agenda, and on the history as far as the provisions of the Agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 1 October 2008, and the Assembly is currently in a joint single search for ratification. It's okay, but it's about the subject, so I'd like to, because maybe I won't be able to explain everything right and maybe you won't understand me. (President: You may not be able to explain, for I will have to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please. You see, on June 28th of this year, the agenda, among other things, was this point relating to the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and Code of Conduct, with a proposal to be taken into consideration. You see, on June 28, 2011 there was supposed to be a promotion of all those events that were happening, and about our future and present allies. On Vidovdan 1389, a Kosovo battle took place. (President: National MP, I strongly ask you that, with the Agreement, or ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and the Code of Conduct signed on 1 October 2008, that you cannot in any way bring you into contact with this 1389 agreement. That's not the subject of the agenda. I'm asking you so much about the agenda. You see, Madam Vice President, it's about allies, it's about the North Atlantic Alliance. It's about all the connections and events that the former and current state has had with these alliances. It is necessary to explain and bring into contact – whether or not it was meant to be on the agenda. Let me say that this item of the agenda should have been downloaded, because the proposal itself is unclear, inaccurate, and it really cannot be handled in detail. What does the Agreement say in the opinion of the Proposer? In the opening part, the agreed sides -- NATO and Serbia, have reached agreement on the loss of Serbia's state sovereignty, the weakening of the country's defence power, the loss of its own political independence, which points to the state of Serbia in a neo-colonial position towards NATO and its reputation in the world. (President: People's Parliament, quote things they don't write in the Agreement.) Please don't deceive the public. If you're going to quote the Agreement, then it has to be a quote from the Agreement. If you're going to elaborate your position, then you can't explain it to the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, that the text of the Agreement being searched, please. Let me, I'm sticking to the agreement. Follow each other's lines, and you'll see for yourself. In fact, our government is making it public under this agreement that we as an independent country are bound by this agreement to consult with NATO. Is that true and does it say in the agreement? It says. On our political and security issues for the country's defence, this means that we are bound by this agreement, that NATO is asked and we get agreement on all political and security issues. What do we get in return? Will there be honorable reciprocity? He won't. NATO will not ask the Serbian state to agree on any political or security issue. That's what the SRS considers concrete. These are the conditions under this agreement we had in recent history, when Hitler set the same conditions for his partners. What does our government think now? That NATO will seek our political and security position for actions around the world, from Vietnam, through Afghanistan, Iraq to Libya? Worse still, we make a commitment to supply all state-owned classified information of interest to the NATO state. I ask the question – which confidential information will it provide us? You can't tell from this except our criminals and drug dealers in the world. I understand that only the NATO Pact will give us that information. They even underestimated us and obliged us to deliver such confidential information to other countries of Europe. I ask a question about this agreement – through which forms and methods will NATO protect the security information that we will provide to NATO members of the Pact? So far, we know that this information has been protected as well as information that has come from its sources and knowledge, and now it will deal with them publicly, as information from state, legal authorities. The promoter says -- all the information we provide to NATO will have the same treatment and the same degree of confidentiality and secrecy as we do. This is so naive and transparent, I must say, when the layman also takes into account the handling and use of confidential information from security and political issues in the country from guarding to using it. Thus, according to this agreement, it turns out that NATO will safeguard and benefit our security information, as our government also protects and benefits them. We oblige NATO to use such information and materials only in the context of individual programmes and obligations. Great. We help them, if they will create a new Kosovo and great Albania from some parts of the state. In this way, we should not help or make any contribution. The naive is said to be: the information we deliver to them will benefit only for its own purposes, from the countries that implement their plans and programmes. That's a nice thing to say. So whoever is jeopardizing this state of Serbia will get complete knowledge and data needed to achieve that goal. Under the agreement, the Serbian government undertakes that all its authorities and citizens who are familiar with NATO's information be subject to an appropriate security check. The security check will be committed to the people, not to Serbia's interests. Mrs. Comic, I ask the question: on what criteria and what faces, the choice of those persons will be covered by this measure and what information to keep, whether they are moving NATO's atomic war funds, forces and plans for NATO to use, what plans and in which countries will they be implemented? And secondly, this data will never be given to us. That's very problematic. We'll know where their interests are, who they are and where they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are. What is involved in the loyalty of Serbian citizens to NATO? Who's going to be familiar with some of their information? There is no detailed and precise answer or explanation at all. By forming and legalising the already existing NATO offices in Serbia under the rule of NATO Secretary-General, everything tells us that they will personally protect and implement their plans and interests in Serbia, and on a spoon introduce us to their data. This says we won't get anything important, because they'll always have an excuse, "We don't need their strategic data." It is hard to know that the Serbian government will determine a body that will exchange information and other sensitive links with the NATO office in Serbia. With this NATO also forms its outstretched command post in Serbia, past the will of the people, and this Assembly whether it should adopt this document and this bill remains a question, debated and very controversial. With this agreement, the minister has demobilised some legal and constitutional authorities from their jurisdiction and their work. Let Minister Sutanovac explain what is now the role of our military attachés abroad and whether they are meaningful to us, and you know what military attachés are. What security documents are of interest to the country? We can do it now so we don't reveal it to NATO. What material and other preparations can the country of Serbia do without meeting NATO's pact members? What defensive measures can Serbia plan not to meet NATO? And that's controversial. It's very dangerous. What military and political preparations can the country carry out without NATO's knowledge? We carry out some belief on the walls, catch alleged terrorists, release hostages, while NATO members perform battalions, regiments, brigades, assaults, defenses, shooting battles, so wartime, until we do it. I guess we don't need that, except for the pies in the Beans meadows. So it is certain that this agreement and this law, if adopted by parliament, raises serious questions about the security of the Republic of Serbia, its territory and its sovereignty. Her armed forces can't be treated like this with these funds the government grants them, it's certain that the country's defences can't be raised to a higher level. For this reason, to add only, gentlemen from the ministry, the army needs to be better organised, the waxes need to be helped, those properties that are failing there, and the great values are sold, to provide combat funds to the Serbian military, to provide officers and military personnel with an appropriate standard and wages and apartments, and thus Serbia can organise defence forces without NATO's pact, as Serbia did in 1914, and in 1918, and in 1941, and not to list the battles, since it has made it possible for me more vice presidents. I'm sorry, and I've just prepared some very important data relating to our army, to combat preparedness, to organization and equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57000	13 minutes spent from the time of the parliamentary group, the difference compared to the times on screens is the time we were reminded of the obligations spoken in the agenda. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word and National MP Paja Momčilovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57001	Mrs. Comic, you are required to ensure that the minister is present because I cannot talk to you or Mrs. Miscevic, I do not have an adequate talker here. This agreement is very important for a parliamentary debate, and please, I'll start talking... . (President: Minister is present and please... . )......................................................................................................... . The minister isn't present, he might be somewhere in the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57002	I ask you to listen if you already abuse the right you have to use within your MP group and violate the Rules of Procedure, considering that it is your right, which it is not. The minister has the right to leave the session for other affairs and has the rights as any participant of the session, was at the beginning, he spoke. You, if you wish to exercise your right, please, and if you do not wish, do not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure because it is not worthy of any MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57003	You might want me not to use it, but I will use it, I will use it in the right sense and address the citizens of Serbia, and above all to the patriotic Serbian public, and there are over 90% of them who cannot understand that Serbia has any co-operation with NATO criminal Alliance, but I will return to something that happened before the signing of this agreement, which is the consistent principled position of the SRS regarding the very announcement that this will happen in general even before Sutanovac, who has dreamed of it for years, became defence minister and headed NATO on the road. The NSRS parliamentary delegation, namely, only a few months before the signing of the agreement, was visiting Brussels in NATO after Shape's command. At the head of the delegation was then the chairman of the Committee, and today's Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, and among other things from the SRS, my esteemed colleague Jadranko Vukovic and my little one. We talked to then's adviser to then-Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer and told him that Serbia would never enter the NATO Pact if the SRS, as the only true patriotic party, were in power and that we oppose any approach with them that bombed us for 78 days, who killed little Milica Rakic, who killed in the Surdulic hospital sick people, who killed little Sanja on the Barbarian Bridge, who destroyed everyone in front of them and who have no good intentions towards Serbia. Mr Sutanovac visited earlier in the same delegations, as MPs Shape and other NATO so-called. the briefings and, unlike us, the Serbian radicals, he nodded everywhere and nodded his head. So, before signing this agreement, we said it was harmful for Serbia, and he also signed on behalf of the RS government and always agreed with all those coming from the criminal Western military alliance, because as the media also calls it, he is the favorite Pentagon minister from Serbia. What you told Mr. Jojic that the history of the Serbian army had nothing to do with it, so when he started talking about the Kosovo color, interrupted it, it was something that... (President: On the agenda of the People's MPs, please, article 107 on the agenda. Art. 106th and 107th) I'm just continuing what my colleague was saying, and here I'm going to talk about Genghis Khan's time, you know, because at that time... (President: National MPs, I warn you, that your address is a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I warn you not to do so anymore, that you do not endanger the dignity of the National Assembly and that you do not violate the Rule 106 which obliges you to speak of the agenda. ) Unlike you, Mrs. Komic, you are in the position of the chairman... (President: I warn you twice now, and then, of course, we will have to make warnings. I'll keep talking about the agreement, because I'm telling you... (President: I thank you, on the agreement. )... I knew his details, but just to clarify to the Serbian public and the minister who may be following this somewhere, or Mrs. Miscevic would pass it on to him, that in the first position, or in the text that defines the beginning of this agreement, this is an ordinary farce. I'm going to do it through a parallel with another country, which the minister also mentioned today, but in its own way and in a hidden negative context, which is our brother's Russian Federation. Namely, he said, and you know it, Mrs. Miscevic, that an agreement like this or similar to the Russian Federation signed in 1995. I have to tell you that it was at the time of Yeljin's treasonous authority, that even in that time, both the SRS and our president, that very year we organized a brotherly-Russian rally here in front of the House of the NSRS on the 21st of September and we said that it would fall into Jelicin's regime and that a great powerful Orthodox Russia would rise to its feet and stand up against the globalistic and hegemonistic politics of America. Of course, no one believed it then and thank God it happened. The Russian people chose Vladimir Putin and later President Medvedev. What is the problem now Serbia is not this patriotic spirit that exists in the people and what is obvious and all the polls show, when it is explored and when it is asked whether the citizens of Serbia are thinking that Serbia should enter the NATO Pact, because over 90% of those who do not want it at all, is the problem that we have the Quinspeak Authority, a cooperative, as it stands here in the right sentence of this agreement. It says, on the basis of an agreement reached, consultations on political and security issues, as well as extending and intensifying political and military co-operation across Europe. Mrs. Miscevic, this gentleman who is German, I forgot his name, who was the chief adviser of the De Hoop Scheffer when we were staying before this one was signed, said that NATO wants an independent so-called. The Shiptar State of Kosovo. Please, he has told us this as parliamentary representatives of the people who need to protect the Constitution, sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country. Who in that meeting stood up there? Only my colleague Vukovic and I. We told him that they could do it by force, as was the occupation of KIM in 1999 on 11 June, something that is still going on, but we believe that it will not last forever, as we believed that powerful and brotherly Russia will stand up and stand up to all NATO actions, that will come the time, when Serbia will no longer walk this dead end and Serbia will return to the path of pride and freedom. What's the difference between the members that are within that Western criminal alliance and the one who's a capo di tuti capi, which is the United States. The difference is big, but he can't understand it and Minister Sutanovac doesn't believe it. He received clear messages and signals on 20 October 2009 when Russian President Medvedev visited Serbia and this parliament. Mr. Medvedev also told the MPs in the NSRS that the new security architecture, as he called it, and the role of Russia in all of it and the ODKB organisation, which he cannot and does not wish to pronounce properly Mr. Sutanovac, must certainly have its place protecting the countries that NATO has done with aggression, military force and, above all, because of the exploitation of economic power, raw materials and destruction of states and peoples, as they are now doing in Libya, can no longer act that way. In Serbia, of course, no one will ever say such a message to send NATO to the pact. Neither do you, Jap de Hoop Scheffer, nor do you now Rasmussen, for you kneel, do all that they set before you, and therefore I say that it is a time that I will not mention now. As Mr Krasic says - there was no NATO pact and what is today is a big difference. You know, in that period, the one who was defeated had to accept it and kill it and leave it without food and without water, and now in this world where some rights are declared, so these great agreements, so there's the Convention on Human Rights, so there's this, that. There's absolutely nothing to respect. The NATO pact violated the Peace Charter and broke the former Yugoslavia and occupied Serbian countries. Our people suffered and fought for the freedom of their people and their territories. What is the difference between Russia, as members of the Partnership for Peace, and signed by this agreement, which is still in force, but the question now is how do you view it through reality, because Russia with patriotic authority is now a powerful, large, military and economic power. You can see that, if you don't know, from an interview given by NATO Ambassador Dmitri Rogozin, who is a representative of the Russian Federation. Instead of acting like Mr. Sutanovac, who crawls in front of NATO generals, who nominates, who wants Serbia in the NATO Pact, Mr. Dmitri Rogozin, as a prominent Russian patriot... (President: National MPs, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please, I'm talking. Do you mind if I mention the Russian Federation? (President: Please speak for representatives, not Duma, not the Russian Federation, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm afraid so. (President: Please speak in the agenda about representatives of the executive government of the Republic of Serbia, without doubting that the Russian Federation has an interest, since it is a signator of the same agreement. Please talk about the agenda. This is Ambassador Rogozin speaking on a mission or anywhere, I cannot be the subject of the agenda that the Agreement is based on the ratification of the Agreement signed 1. Ten. In 2008. Since I see you're bothered, Mrs. Comic, and you won't let me, then I'll be back... (President: I give you the first warning. )......................................................................................................... on this topic regarding Parliament and your thinking... (President: People's MPs, you'll be talking about the agenda...) ) Of course, I'm talking about the agenda only you don't follow. (President:...) You won't violate article 106 or I'll have to apply the penalty measures. So, on the agenda or you'll force me... If I continue with Mrs. Miscevic, since she understands this, it doesn't matter, she will pass it on to Mr. Sutanovac. (President: I give you a second warning. Would you like to talk about the agenda? I didn't hear at all when you gave me your first warning. (President: Because you are violating the Rules of Procedure, the MPs, since you are obliged to listen to the warning given to you by the chair rather than to speak at the same time. So I reminded you, so I warned you once, twice and twice, and I warned you, and you left me no other space than to say the measures to which the Rules of Procedure obliges me, and no matter what you don't believe me, I don't like the expression of the measure any more than anyone the measure applies. This applies to MPs who feel that they can violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because they feel that they have strong political beliefs and beliefs. I can't. If you are prepared and have a strategy, as a Parliament club and as a parliamentary group, that this session is conducted in such a way that criminal measures are imposed for the infringement strategy of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am at my disposal. Can I go on? (President: National MP Milan Škrbić throws out the bench, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Can I warn you that doesn't seem to happen anymore? I thank the People's Parliament. Go ahead, go ahead. ) Therefore, the new threats and challenges of the NATO Pact defined by this agreement and which we view in our own way, as we should observe, is the Office for Security, which is defined in Article 3rd floor, which is precisely the name of the Secretary-General and the chairman of the Military Committee to act on behalf of and under the authority of the North-Atlantic Council and the NATO Military Committee, it says in Article 3. The Agreement – is responsible for security agreements and for the protection of confidential information exchanged in the context of activities and co-operation approved by the North-Atlantic Council. You witnessed it, Mrs Miscevic, several times at the meetings of the Committee on Defence and Security, when we also spoke with the representatives of the VBA, asked questions as MPs of the SRS – what is this outflow of information? It is not defined here, which Jojic noted nicely, whether we are going to give them something that is general, what journalists, military analysts know, which anyone can find or publish or it will be something that is a state secret, like that report we had a few days ago and a closed session of the government. We have never received such answers, and we responsibly claim, as a party, because we know this, what has gotten into our structures, unfortunately, that Serbia is infested as Swiss cheese. When the BIA Committee meetings, as well as the committee sessions at which we are considering the co-operation of our attachés with NATO members, of course we have an open concern, not only of doubt, but we know that NATO villains and their intelligence agents will do everything they did before they did through media support, through various structures that were brought here in 1999, before Serbia's criminal bombing and the killing of the Serb people began. I will end with this, this agreement and every appearance of Mr. Sutanovac, in terms of advocating NATO's pact policy in Serbia, because NATO, as you can see, is not only militaryly defined, but also politically, what they have told us in person, and they will tell us next week because just on Wednesday, a 12-member delegation in which we will be Mr. Alexic Boris and I and other fellow MPs, we will go back to Sheip in the military command of July 6th, will receive us Deputy Secretary General Rasmussen's deputy, of course we will talk about Serbia not wanting to join NATO. Unlike those who are in power, colleagues who support the Sutanovac and your treasonous policy, we go there to tell them in person that they are criminals, to conquer the people, that they are a criminal organisation and that Serbia is certainly no place there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57004	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The difference in time compared to the figures on the screen is due to the responsibility of the chairman to remind him of the obligations of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, respected chairman, we are having a principle debate today, not in particular, which includes more agenda points, and here it is already... (President: National MP, a single search is under way. I'm asking you for so much concentration that at least we can show that we know what kind of debate we're having, a unique search. That's what I said. (President: No, you're not. So please, at least so much concentration. Well, we can consult the record later, and we'll clear that up, too, what I said. Since we are having a united discussion of several points, the rest of the points remain in the seal. We have a whole series of agreements here with various countries, some of them EU members, some of which are not members, and of course we have joined this last law that causes the most controversy, which is the one about confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and the Code of Conduct. To be clear, someone said the SRS wanted us to be isolated. No, the SRS stands for co-operation with all the countries of the world, and they are over 200. Just to remind you how many members are in the UN, it is well known, however, we always point out on which principles, on principles of respect, sovereignty and mutual benefit and well-being. When we talk about this co-operation, we may point out a little bit more, it may bother some, that we find it extremely necessary to talk to the BRIKS countries, as they will say – Brazil, India, Russia, China and third world countries. Why? You see, in these years of economic crisis, we have the situation that the main economic progressive movements are taking place in these countries, and that Europe has major economic problems and we believe that these countries should be co-operated with, and therefore we have expressed one position that is politically unacceptable for some, we agree that everyone has a right to their own opinion, that in our interest today, it is in our interest to develop our economic capacities without relying on someone's assistance, donation, pre-accession funds, but precisely through the development of co-operation that is true and rights. One of those documents is, of course, the one with Morocco being signed and he's a pretty good document. Now, however, let's deal with this disputed document. I'll be very specific. I'll just stick to him. We see here that his Excellency, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, and another Excellency in the image of Mr. JAT De Hoop Scheffer sign this. If we look at strictly protocolally political, these personalities can bear this title, as well as the chairman, each minister, however, seems to me to be from the French Revolution further, and today in particular, it is the current civilization that we refer to a mystery and our calling, a function, which will be said by theminister. We've had problems always before with that representation of calling and personality in one sublime way. You see, Americans are talking to their president -- Mr. President, also with -- Mr. President, and that's an anachronous representation. Of course, someone might agree that this is the way it should be done, maybe we should bow down, but we don't think that's what we should have done here, because even in other agreements that we have before us today, it doesn't work that way. In short, we can't vote for one of these agreements. Why? Because of what was said in the introduction. So I'm going to be very clear and what it says here, so it says in the introduction, realizing that successful co-operation in these areas involves exchanges of sensitive and confidential information, so one day we agree, and then the members are listed. What's this about? It's about security issues. We believe that we do not need to exchange security issues with NATO. Why do we think that? So, I'll try to explain if I'm allowed all the arguments. Serbia is a military neutral country under No. One, there's a congregation declaration. On the other hand, there is no balanced view of the defence alliances, and the ODKB was spoken of, Medvedev was a guest of this parliament. We're familiar with this security system, and then, until we can access something like that, until we establish some kind of balance, we don't think further co-operation with the NATO Pact should be deepened. Someone said, the Russians signed, yes, but Russia was not bombed by NATO bombers and planes, and Serbia was largely bombed by NATO members. Why don't we think we should sign something like this? For the simple reason that the Serbian people are majority telling you, Serbia should not enter the NATO pact. We simply listen to the voice of the people, maybe the people are wrong, I don't know, collective delusions are possible. And the German people followed the Hitler, and that's true. However, I think that the Serbian people in the formulation of this opinion also have strong reasons to stand in that position. Why? I remind you, the NATO Pact has violated UN regulations without the SB's permission on two occasions, bombed our people, launched aggression against the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo. Kosovo is known to have been bombed by the use of a false find, a god-awful massacre for which Prime Minister Milosevic was charged at the first moment, so it was dropped out of the suit because it was a false accusation. In fact, if a man thinks about what NATO really wants, and it is certain that he wants his interests strategically to be achieved on this ground, but unfortunately, for us, located in this Balkans, it is quite clear that we are in conflict with that interest of the US and NATO pact. We are not allowed to have our national being living united in the state of the Serbian people. That's more clear to everyone. On the other hand, the dismembering of the federal state of Yugoslavia has done NATO, maintaining the quasi of the state of Kosovo, for which at least a verbal and formal consensus exists among all of us that it should not be recognised, also allows NATO. So when someone rips up a piece of your body and takes away, it can't be that they're supposed to work with him in a way that's abnormal and unnecessary. We are in the Partnership for Peace, enough to demonstrate our will. Mr. Minister signed yesterday with the patriarch of the Serbian accord where priests of the Orthodox Church will be part of our army. He respects the army and the church, an institution of great importance for the Serbian people, and the same church appeared, the Holy Synod against the NATO Conference in Belgrade. If yesterday you listened to the patriarch's speech in Gracanica about Kosovo, you can see why Serbian radicals and the Serbian people do not want anything. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57006	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and he is the last registered speaker, and time is available to the parliamentary group for 21 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57007	Mrs. Komic, we have more points in this debate and I have to talk with shared feelings, because there are agenda points here, and these agreements with these countries that have not recognised an independent Kosovo and that is unacceptable. Why not speak plainly? All those countries that have not recognised Kosovo as terrorist and independent, NATO Kosovo, prove that they are friends of the Serb people and that we should develop friendly relations with them with respect for the principles of mutual benefit. Mrs. Komic, it is no objection, but I would draw your attention, if we take these agreements, or the draft laws to confirm these agreements with Morocco, BiH, Kuwait, Armenia, you will see that the argument is fundamental. There are five points in the explanation. The second point where the reasons are, the whole previous procedure has been described as how the agreement occurred, so who negotiated, so when the government adopted the platform, so who was empowered on behalf of Serbia to sign, so who signed it, so when he signed it. Mrs. Komic, if you look at this agreement that defends Mr. Sutanovac here until the last drop of blood, you will see that the explanation has only three points and there is no record of when the platform for talks was adopted, who adopted, who authorized whom, so I am simply surprised, because I know that you know very well the Rules of Procedure, I do not believe that you only know the provisions on punishment, but you also know the provisions on preparing the session, about the appearance of the bill. I expected you to have a farm intervention with Minister Sutanovac. Well, that doesn't diminish the importance of the subject, so don't take it for granted. Just to remind ourselves, the same arches should apply to everyone. Let's move on to this law that defends Mr. Sutanovac. I think, Mrs. Comic, you haven't figured out the SRS parliamentary group at all. I, as an independent MP, owns my mandate, imagine, I must inform you...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57008	People's MP, we're all such MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57009	Not all of you. It's just me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57010	Belonging to the parliamentary group, neither improves nor makes it impossible to understand anything. Please, we are all equal to each other and if you can not present the qualifications of other Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57011	Mrs. Comic, I'm using that part of my right, 1/250. Well, we mathematicians understand each other. And where am I? Okay, here comes this bill and I have to tell you, ma'am, that some research is being published these days, some polls. Let me tell you right now, I don't believe in polls. I don't think so. I think that's where the data is filtered. It is simply incomprehensible to me that 80% of citizens do not want to hear about the EU. I don't think 99% of citizens want to hear about the EU. Who loves the EU? Criminals, rich people, and those who pay from abroad. It's 1% in Serbia, and 99% doesn't. But you say, or analysts say 80%, so let's get out of it. As far as the NATO Pact is concerned, the situation is 92% does not want to hear the NATO Pact. I speak for those 92% of citizens. It's said - 8% would like, 12-13% are like doubts, etc. I tell them because of these 12-13% - don't hesitate at all, don't ever trust the West. Don't trust the West. Now, on this agreement, I now have to defend Mr. Sutanovec. Please, Mrs. Miscevic, tell him I defended him. It is not his fault that Serbia entered the Partnership for Peace in 2006, it is those who had co-habitation at the time. You remember that word. Plus a minus together. Co-insistence, opposites, and opposites attract. Someone put a finger on his forehead, sat there unauthorizedly thinking, and better if he just sat there and didn't think about it, and it's been said like this – if I can't fight the enemy, I'll join him. And so Serbia entered the Partnership for Peace, like the last car. And it's supposed to be the last car. Now, Mrs. Comic, since you know the Rules of Procedure well, to inform you, Marko Djurisic is the chairman of the parliamentary group, our delegations to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and I am his deputy. You know? When he doesn't go, I run a delegation, so you know. I went for a while, represented SRS attitudes, when it was tight, and finished the job. I put everything in their face, I told them, and it's clear to them. Now that Natasa and Aleksic are going, they must report whether they spoke there as 92% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say. You were just right when you mentioned about Genghis Khan, he wasn't a member of the NATO Pact. So our value court on the NATO Pact is well known. We are very pleased that in the Republic of Serbia, only the SRS has consistently represented the position. Our position has been based since 1990-1991, we don't need to change. We have no right to forget the Republika Srpska Krajina and Republika Srpska, SRJ, KIM etc. You see, as time passes, Euro-Atlanticists go to a tone in Serbia. But what did these come up with? They say -- the question of a definitive decision on Serbia-NATO's relationship will not be resolved in a referendum, will not be resolved in the National Assembly, will be resolved in the government. Which one? Probably someone who's leaving. However, this by capacity is quite already a historical category. But you can't do that, not at all. Next, I must defend Mr. Shutanovec. Vuk Draskovic signed an agreement that NATO will pass through Serbia when it flees Kosovo and Metohija. Is that what it is? So what happened in Paracino, then the deal, and then those NATO pacters thought it was the Serbs who planted that explosion at Paracino. They thus showed that it is not safe to flee when attacked by terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija. You know, we have to remember it all. I must remind you, Mrs Gordana Komic, there are Eurofanatics and Eurosceptics in the European Parliament. There are post-fanatics and post-sceptics in the NATO Pact. Ms. Jovanovic told you about Mr. Rogozin, he went there because of an antique attitude. (President: National MP, about when this is a topic of the agenda. That's the darkness. (President: No. Here, let me explain. (President: The topic of the agenda is the ratification of the agreement signed on 1 October 2008. ) Just enjoy and listen, you will understand. I'll explain everything to you in detail. There won't be a point left unexplained. (President: You will only discuss the topic of the agenda to explain to the MPs and citizens and to all of us. That's exactly it, Mrs. Comic. (President: Please, on the subject of the agenda. Here, here's proof of that. I'm an opponent of the NATO Pact, and I'm deputy head of the NATO Pact Assembly delegation. It's the highlight of democracy. (President: And what does this have to do with the agreement? Well, let me explain. (President: On the subject of the agenda, please. ) Mrs. Comic, look, the Serbian version of this agreement, page 7, preamble says – given that the Republic of Serbia is a co-operative partner country. Well, nobody in Serbia thinks that, 92% of citizens say – whatever, a co-operative partner country with a NATO pact? Nobody wants to have that kind of treatment. It is offensive for 92% of citizens to write in an agreement that the state of Serbia is co-operative and partnered with the NATO Pact. Then it would turn out that if you had not bombed us before, we were eager for you to bomb us. So why is Mr. Sutanovac laying flowers on these monuments? He was almost in the King. Isn't that right, Krpovich? He opened a monument. The people gathered to hear what the minister was going to say, and he burned, ran away, there's nothing to say, because if the NATO pact hears, it can be dangerous. That's what I'm talking about. Next, do we need the information that the NATO Pact owns? Well, they did. But I suggest a better way to get that information. It's spying and counter-spy. Why? So the NATO Pact has proven to be hostile to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The NATO Pact makes us an enemy armed force in Kosovo, an independent Kosovo. The NATO Pact has supported all our enemies for the past 20 years. The NATO Pact simply does everything against the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How can anyone say in this agreement – we are, the turkey dot is not valid, peace, peace, no one is guilty, we want with the NATO Pact, we love the NATO Pact, and the NATO Pact says – we know that you do not love us, but we want some agreements to make you enjoy the sufferings in which the NATO Pact exposes you. Now that's the question. We need to show a high degree of satisfaction that the enemy is turning our hands, stealing the state, etc. It's unacceptable for us. If you don't believe me, ask these surveyors, they say – 92% of citizens don't want to hear it. If 92% does not want to hear or 51% does not want to hear, then the question of the legitimacy and legality of those who are going towards NATO duck with completely different attitudes is raised. Then they don't represent the interests of the citizens. Here we have been able to prove that we have an installed power that meets the Brussels requirements in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that the elementary and vital interests of this people simply do not want to hear. He simply doesn't want the government to hear it, and that's why we have a persistent emphasis on such draft laws that are unacceptable to us, especially some findings. So it's said like this -- the government of the Republic of Serbia accepts the obligation that all its citizens... Please, how can the government commit all citizens? Every citizen should fulfill a commitment to the NATO Pact if he comes into a situation to find out something. Well, don't, and then we spies lose our jobs. Don't say that. So I'm proud of spying on the NATO Pact. Isn't that right, Mr. Shutanovac? Just to tell you, I've just defended you from these uninformed and those from the SPO. Furthermore, the government now assumes the obligation for our citizens to be subject to an adequate security check before they are granted access to such information in the material. You see, so he has to go through a security check, a moral political resemblance, like during another Tito, so if he meets those criteria of moral political resemblance, then they're gonna whisper some false information to him. What will this do to them when our ministry and our state authorities are crawling with people who are in some relationship with the NATO Pact? The NATO Pact is really a very strange organization, which I told you last time, they say in 1992 that there was no war in Bosnia, they wouldn't know how to define the NATO Pact. They are a grateful space of the former Yugoslavia and therefore invested $17 billion in BiH for 14 years and finally found that according to Dayton, they created a state of idiots that is impossible, it is legally impossible, two entities, a third of them common, etc. There is a conflict in NATO's pact over what NATO's pact should do in the Balkans. Of course, I'm deepening that conflict even more to take away the eyes, but you can see for yourself when the NATO pact gets out of control, and the example was the former Yugoslavia, then we have bombings around the world today. Obama won the Nobel Peace Prize two days after he was elected president, so he wouldn't cause wars. But what do we do? It's a world policy. We are small, we need to catch the connection and to look for friends, Mrs. Comić, to look for friends, and to show the enemies a way away – away from your house, step back, I don't believe you, I know you well, I call for my experience, little Milica Rakić, Varvarin, Grdelica, Novi Sad, yours, Mrs. Comic. I know you blamed the SPS at the time, but now you've embraced them, and without them, you can't, so that card's off. It's just the wrong way. The way this people rule is wrong. It's heading west, heading towards the NATO Pact, heading towards the EU. Believe me, it's quite a fallout. Those systems are falling apart. They're unprincipled. Last time I read to you the newspaper text from Zagreb, that on 11 June, a polygon exercise was held in Croatia and that Mr. Sutanovac sent representatives of our army to training, and the following information was - preparing to go to Afghanistan. Please, what are we doing there? To lure terrorists after, to make amends to the people for five nurses or two doctors who are part of NATO troops in Afghanistan. Don't avoid it, please. Avoid, as you must avoid, having very nice friendly relations with Libya, and then turn your back on Libya. That's not how it works, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Tadic was awarded the highest honor by the leader of the Libyan people of Colonel Gaddafi. Respect that, don't get confused with it, it's going to the museum... (President: Agenda theme, Article 106) Please bring the Libyan people in on the subject of the agenda or stop breaking the Rules of Procedure. ) Point 2. (Romanian I, Latin I) He says, "The security procedures will be designed to determine whether an individual, taking into account his loyalty and reliability, can have access to classified information." So, Mr. Sutanovac went through the moritoring, so, uh, designed procedure. Is he as an individual loyal? I didn't pass. You'll get through it. (President: Please do not speak directly to participants of the session, MP Zoran Krasic and Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. ) Mrs. Komic, a very pleasant discussion, there is no need to interrupt. Mr. Sutanovac and I are conducting a dialogue. (President: People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure are forbidden directly to the participants of the session, so you are about to declare the most tender feelings to each other. He can't, MP. It's not about the content of what you're saying, it's not about direct address. I'm asking you about the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, this kind of dialogue is very desirable. You see, Mr. Sutanovac admits everything. So there's no need for me to cuff him, he's willing to admit it. Mr. Sutanovac, I can't mention you, but I must, Mrs. Comic, and for your sake and for your citizens, say some things. There was almost a concert here, a mess and a shame... (President: National MPs, or bring the concert into contact or without breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 106) I know, Mrs. Comic, but you see what kind of people these NATO pacts are. They called my Dragan Sutanovec that he was Stalin. He's not Stalin, that's what I'm saying. Shame on them. (President: On the subject of the agenda. I'm warning you now. All right, warn me. We also have a code of conduct, which is an integral part of the NATO pact. Mrs. Komic, now to draw your attention, the third paragraph, I read out loud because of you: "This way declares that they accept the commitment. His Excellency, for the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Sutanovac. "In the explanation, we have no conclusion of the government when the conclusion of such an agreement is approved. We only have three points to explain. That's why I initially drew your attention, Mrs. Comic, to look at these laws to confirm the agreement with us dear and friendly states that have not recognised Kosovo's independence, where there are five points in the explanation, where exactly the government's conclusion, the cabinet's session, which they have authorised, who they have examined, what they have told him, what is the platform, etc. There's no such thing here. It may be a purely formal flaw, but I still have to notice, since I am forced to respect the Rules of Procedure, because you forced me into the Rules of Procedure, and you know that it is extremely offensive for me when you punish me, so Nenad Konstantinovic gives me my money as a social aid. The resistance to give me my money, there's no bigger mess you can give me. Now I'm asking a question, because of this argument, and because of what I read in the code of conduct, and Mr. Sutanovac received the severance fee just so he doesn't work in the state service, and they returned it again. Now, on behalf of all of us, he gives a solemn commitment within this code. I think it's a good trick, let's be clear right now. I'm interpreting this as another move to make everything sick of NATO's pact. That's where you have my support. If this were signed by Vuk Jeremic, it would already have some weight, because he has not yet received the severance payment if he did not do the state's work. But since Sutanovac got it, after being completely unfounded, and I'm wrong when any citizen of the Republic of Serbia attacks these verified enemies of ours, you thought I was joking because of that concept, I'm not kidding at all, but I'm telling you seriously. I have to get the idea of the SRS that I love every football player, every actor, every singer, every single team of us, anyone representing the Republic of Serbia. I may be dissatisfied with individual representatives of the government, but when they attack the Republic of Serbia I must raise my voice, it is my constitutional obligation, Mrs Comic. You agree with me on that. I may disagree politically with Mr. Sutanovec, but when our army is attacked, when our country is attacked, we must raise our voice. It's not a matter of solidarity, it's a matter of constitutionality. I would suggest that we do not ratify this agreement, because we do not have a mandate from citizens, and I am Mrs. Comic, the owner of my mandate in direct communication with citizens. I cannot, unfortunately, make contact with 92%, try to increase those 80 against the European Union to at least 95 in order for the next elections to be a mere formality, or mathematical category based solely on addition and there is nothing to be taken away. I hope that the enlightened majority of the independent owners of their mandate, if they want to return home, if they want to talk to their friends, neighbors, will boast that they represent 92% of the citizens and that in the day of voting they did not vote for this sixth law and for these common, united, united debates, however we take that term, and that you simply cry out with joy that the day after Vidovdan you are fighting for the rights of the Serbian people, for an independent, prosperous Republic of Serbia in as close as possible to relations with Russia. I hope that tomorrow, as part of that debate, we will have the opportunity to talk about the military alliance of the ODKD, which is a prospective alliance, the most powerful alliance. Mr. Sutanovac has the authority to continue to be Minister of Defence and to be our attaché in Moscow for development as close as possible to co-operation with the Russian army, with "Rusaboron", a large company, with the Chinese famous army and friendly armies that respect our interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57012	It's been used for 21 minutes. This used time is the total available to the SRS parliamentary group. National MP Zoran Krasic was the last on the list of registered speakers. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want to do so. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Bozidar Djelic is available for another three minutes, MP Jovan Palalic, two minutes, other presidents, authorised representatives have not even used it. I'm asking if anyone else wants to take advantage of their time. If not, I would like to conclude a joint single search on the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on co-operation in the field of the fight against crime, the proposal for a law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Herzegovina on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic official passports, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Morocco, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Culture, Higher Educational Research, Education and Sports, Communication of Youth and Sports between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the North Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and the Code of Procedures. I thank the government's representative, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, representatives of the Interior Ministry for co-operation, and I hope for an equally fruitful and responsible debate in future cases when the topics from the security sector are on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I now set a break by 14.30 and then we will continue to work on the transition to the next continent in a joint single search of the Decision on the organisation of the Assembly's Service and the Commission's decision to enforce criminal sanctions, and since we have already extended the work, if we are effective, we may move on to the decision-making process during the day, but we will see it in the afternoon part of the session. Thank you all. At 2:30, we're back to work. Thank you, Minister. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I'm sorry the session didn't start at 2:30. The reason is that, in a single review of the Proposal for a Decision on the Organisation and Labour of the Service of the National Assembly and the Proposal for a decision on the Education of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the debate is conducted as a single search for amendments and we are obliged to submit amendments to the MPs so that they can work during a single search. Since I have information that the copies have arrived and that they will be divided by the O.R. at any moment, we can continue our work. Therefore, a joint single search on the proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the Service of the National Assembly and a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to conduct a joint single search, from 12 and 13 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint and uniform search, I remind you that according to Article 193 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of an individual parliamentary group, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the URS parliamentary group (G17 plus-Together for Shumadi) – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 24 minutes; the SPS-JS – 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority group of deputies – eight minutes and 24 seconds; the PUPS parliamentary group – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them, according to these points of the agenda, to be represented by MP Petar Jojic, the SRS parliamentary group, MP Radoslav Milovanovic, the ZES parliamentary group. Pursuant to Article 192, paragraphs 3 and 193, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint and uniform search on the proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the Service of the National Assembly and a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Before I ask if the words of the proposing representatives, the MPs Nenad Konstantinović and Bosko Ristic, I would like to inform the National Assembly in accordance with Article 90, as we have already extended the work after 18 hours for today, that we will open and search the next agenda after the completion of the joint single search. Does the proposing representative, MP Nenad Konstantinovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57014	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before you a proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the Service of the National Assembly. This proposal for a decision was drawn up by the Administrative Board in cooperation with the professional service, i.e. with the Secretary-General. We worked on it together, and we had a serious debate in front of the Administrative Committee. We had some dilemmas, and this proposal, which lies before you, is the fruit of the agreement of the Secretary-General of the Professional Service and of the members of the Administrative Committee who took part in making this decision. We have begun the process of reforming the Serbian Parliament by adopting the Law on the Assembly, then by adopting the Rules of Procedure, and this is the third most important act needed for the Assembly to adopt and allow us to organise and professional service in a more recent and more efficient way in the Serbian Assembly to enable everything that comes to the Assembly in the coming period, which is a huge number of laws that we must adopt in the EU accession process, we can adopt in the best and most efficient way. The Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure have introduced a number of new institutes in the work of the Serbian Parliament, and we need to provide for this decision on the organisation of the work of a new one to be done by the assembly service. All matters that need congregation service to deal with are listed in this decision and are classified in the sectors. To reduce the assembly apparatus itself and simplify it, make it more efficient and faster, this decision proposes the formation of four sectors. So, besides the House of Presidents of the Assembly, the General Secretariat, we propose the existence of four sectors, not seven sectors as it has been so far and as it has been in the old decision. These are the sector for legislation, the sector for international relations, the sector for general affairs and the sector for the maintenance of facilities of the National Assembly. I've seen that there are several amendments submitted by the representatives of the SRS. I think counterpart Sreto Peric has submitted an amendment and colleague of the Verica Radeta that assumes the introduction of a new sector that would be the sector for parliamentary clubs, i.e. the sector for the affairs of parliamentary clubs. These two amendments will not be accepted on behalf of the promoter. I believe that there should be these four sectors and that in the legislative sector all the jobs necessary for the quality of the affairs of the legislation are listed. Only legislation provides for everything that needs to be done in the process of passing one law and the sector for legislation will be available to both parliamentary groups and committees and, in the end, all MPs will be helped in the work. What we have seen as MPs over the past few years is that we do not have sufficient support for the professional service, not because the professional service does not want to give it to us, but because it is simply not able to provide it, for the reasons of an outdated organization, and on the other hand, because we do not have a sufficient number of people in the professional service. I will remind you that we are the number of employees according to the number of MPs in the last place in Europe. So our parliament has the least employees compared to the number of MPs. Unfortunately, we do not have financial opportunities to increase the number of employees in the Serbian Parliament. We tried to introduce some of the new jobs we need to carry out the electronic parliament during this year, but this was a maximum for 2011 – possibly 10 new employees who will be doing jobs related to AT and internal audits. There's a whole new place that didn't exist before, and here it appears as a job within the General Secretariat, which is an internal audit. I hope this year we will introduce and select an internal auditor, right after this decision is made on the organisation. Then, after the decision to systematise jobs, we will select an internal auditor who will work in the Serbian Parliament and control the spending of funds from the assembly budget. What is certainly news in the legislative sector is that the legislative sector will deal with the harmonisation of regulations with EU rules. We think it is important that the Assembly has a strong legislative service, which every law that comes to the Serbian Parliament will analyse and offer this analysis to all MPs, regardless of which committees are members or whose parliamentary groups and point out to us in this analysis whether it is possible that the law proposed by the Government is in conflict with some other law or legal system. It is also important to make sure that all these laws comply with EU standards. We know that there is a government obligation and that the government and usually ministers sign one statement when they send the law to the Assembly, that they are in accordance with EU law, but we simply think that this is necessary to verify. We had cases that some laws were not in line with EU regulations. We specifically singled out the sector for international relations as one of four major sectors for the simple reason that the Serbian Parliament represents, right behind the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an institution or body that deals seriously with international relations. Parliament's international policy is of paramount importance to our country, especially in the situation where we are, and that is what we wanted to give significant attention to. You will see that in these decisions there are also parts that work out laws for government employees and we have simply tried to stress this decision that the Secretary-General will make certain rules and instructions. They have existed before and will now be brought back, with the consent of the Administrative Committee, in which it will be specified how people are employed in the National Assembly. Not only do we need to meet all the legal requirements, but we will try to anticipate a very clear procedure as the recruitment process goes to the competition and what kind of talks will be held with all those who apply to be employed in the National Assembly. For reasons not to get into a situation, and we had such situations, and the congregation was in the past and sued by some who were not elected, or employees in the congregation, who felt that they met the conditions just as some who were elected. To avoid this in the future, it will be very precisely arranged in the way that the National Assembly is employed and, of course, how progress is made within the National Assembly, or evaluation of the results before someone progresses in the future. This decision was, as I said, the subject of a debate on the Administrative Committee. We discussed it and the College, which was scheduled by the President of the Assembly and which was attended by the presidents, or the heads of the parliamentary groups and vice-presidents, and then there were no more significant objections. As far as the amendment is concerned, the amendment submitted by my colleague, Ms. Radeta, to Chapter 1, point 2. - she suggested she delete herself. The amendment does not accept and we believe it is good to specify that the professional service is obliged to carry out its professional, quality, efficient, economical, impartial and political neutral work. The amendment of counterpart Petar Jojic, who amends the motion for a decision in point 12 of Article 4(2) in Chapter 4 by saying that "employees" would practically put an end to erasing indent 3 as well. We also believe that sections, apart from sectors and departments, are needed by professional service. That's the information I received from the professional service and from the secretary general. According to the law, there may be sections and professional services, it is necessary to have a section where at least five employees would not be just large organisational units such as a department with at least eight employees. Chapter 4. The proposal for a decision in paragraph 13 after paragraph 2 is added to the new indent 3, sector for the affairs of parliamentary groups. She proposed a colleague of the Faith Radeta. I explained we're not accepting that amendment. We do not want to increase the number of sectors because we believe that there are enough four sectors and that these jobs are contained in the legislative sector. The same argument applies to the amendment of counterpart Sreta Perić, who proposed to be in Chapter 4. The motion for a decision, after point 15, adds a new point of 15a, which would also include a sector for the affairs of parliamentary groups. The amendment of counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic to point 16 which deletes indent 3 also does not accept the proposal. The Belief of Radet, from the place: I can't believe it. My colleagues, believe me, that's what's going on. Therefore, paragraph 3 of point 16 provides that the professional service shall carry out the tasks of the analysis of the draft law. We deeply believe and believe that every law that enters the Assembly is needed to be analysed by the professional service and this analysis to all MPs for insight. The professional service should also analyse whether the law is possibly in line with our country's legal system and the Constitution. So we don't accept that amendment. The amendment of counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic to item 23, which he proposes to delete attitude 2 is also not accepted. In the second paragraph, point 23 of paragraph 1 is diluted and concerns the need to further evaluate the results of the work before a contract is concluded with someone employed in the Assembly. The amendment to point 24, which was submitted by colleague Vlatko Ratkovic, we accept. This is an amendment to delete the provision for the work of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs to be carried out by the Administrative Board until the establishment of the National Assembly. A colleague, Ratkovic, believes it is unnecessary and that it already stands in the Rules of Procedure and that is correct. It's already in the Rules of Procedure and we don't think it has to be repeated in this decision. The amendment of counterpart Srdjan Mikovic to point 16, to amend the indent 3rd, and to deal with the activities of the professional service in the analysis of the bill and other general acts and to leave out a precise provision to deal with and comply with the constitutional and legal system as well. We believe that the professional service should be carried out in the context of analysis and doing so. The amendment of a colleague of the Vjerica Work on Chapter 5 of the Proposal for a Decision, paragraph 20, item 4, which would be harmonised, as it stands in the explanation, shall be governed by the legal and technical regulation of the Proposal for a Decision, by the act of heading 3 of this point closer to the composition and manner of work of the Competition Commission. This solution, proposed by my colleague Radeta, I think it's so defined in law or in some old decision. We deliberately pointed out what it was that needed to contain that rule, just so there weren't any arbitrary interpretations. So again, it is about how to conduct a conversation and how to do employment, so we do not accept that amendment. Col. Branko Ružic and counterpart Gordana Comic submitted the amendment to item 22 in the same text, where the deadline for the adoption of other acts is practically extended from 30 days to 90 days. This amendment in the same text as Branko Ruzic and Gordana Komic, the acceptor. I thank the few MPs for their attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57015	Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57016	Madam Vice-President, since we have a motion for a decision to be made five years ago, as the motion states in its proposal that it was a legislative obligation of the National Assembly to educate this commission on 1 January 2006, given the state of play in the criminal sanctions and on the data often presented in the public and the opinion of the Civil Protection Officer himself, it is obvious that the situation in criminal jurisprudence is in the criminal penitentiary homes. The institutions are unsatisfactory. For the last 13 years, since 1998, two laws on the enforcement of criminal sanctions have been passed in 1997 and 2005, and more amendments and additions to this law have been made. These changes were made in 2001, then amended and complemented by the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions against prisons for organised crime in 2009, amendments and additions to the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions in 2011. Such frequent changes and additions to the law of substance enforcement of criminal sanctions have led to chaos. Prison officials and convicts are no longer aware of the law and the provision of which member of the law should apply and which is in force. Direct executives have time to learn and remember which regulations are now applied and operate according to their own routine. Lawmakers have no clear concept that the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions should be arranged. Quick amendments to the law require changes and sublegal acts. The execution of criminal sanctions should be regulated and aligned with 30 sublegal acts at the moment. Since 2005, 10 sublegislative acts have not been brought in yet, although changes and additions have been brought in. If this is added that by more than double the number of convicts from 2000 to today, with a normative disorder, the situation in prisons is no surprise. Now in a legally regulated state, the sentence of prison is required only if it cannot otherwise act preventively. In preventing crime in our country, it's the most important sanction. According to the provisions of the Criminal Penal Code, when it comes to this decision and which is why it is proposed and what should be done and what is the task of that commission that will be formed, it is evident that a prison department with enhanced supervision is being introduced, seducing an open type, semi-open type, closed type, closed type with special security. These offices cover all categories of prisoners and there's no need for a closed ward with enhanced supervision. What's it gonna look like, what kind of convicts and similar, closed wards with increased supervision in a closed-door office with special security. In addition to these departments, there is a special department for the execution of a prison sentence for the crimes of organized crime. What's new is that dogs are being introduced for drugs and explosives. The question of dog training, maintenance and restoration and such, not carrying an official gun, etc. is raised. These were acts that had to be passed, but they had to be applied at the same time. Characteristics of current normative rules on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and changes and additions over the last ten years in Serbia are being introduced from law to law. Such repression in prisons leads to the destabilising of the mental illnesses of certain prisoners. There's a big mistake in pretending that prisoners don't separate by category. The condition of all conditions is that mandatory classification and categorisation of convicts by personal property and types of criminal offences must be carried out. That is why the need for this decision to be proposed and made has been demonstrated. In Serbia, all prisons of the general type are now in place and are housed by convicts from the easiest executive crimes to the most difficult. They're all mixed up. In such an organization and conditions prisons have become a school of crime, and close to 50% of prisoners are either dependent or related to drug use. In our prisons, there are no programs to treat drug addicts. Drug dealers and addicts are involved, and in such conditions prison drug dealers are conditional on selling drugs with the help of prison officials. By introducing a cell system, convicts are locked up all the time in cells like cages with a blinded door with half an hour's walk within 24 hours. This is an American model and he is not human and in this way prisoners who are not working on a defined programme and content, which should primarily ensure the socialization of prisoners, with convicts not being handled by the program, and a large number of such prisoners become returnees and return is an effect seen, that prison convicts are not treated properly. The measures of loneliness and isolation are measures of the 19th century, like a cell system. Prisons create an atmosphere of fear and unrest and extorted reactions, because they are scared, as it is known that people in fear are taking on so - called. preventive attacks in order to protect them. From there and the sentence of one convict to a short sentence, that he's afraid of being placed in a room with a convict who's been sentenced to 40 years in prison, because this one can kill him both in his sleep, and under the applicable law, he can't get more than two convictions. Therefore, convicts who are sentenced to more serious penalties should not be placed in the same rooms as prisoners convicted of petty crimes. According to the 2007 Justice Ministry's annual report, the number of convicts to 40 years in prison was 19. The number of convicted 15-20 years was 33 convicts and 10-15 years – 144 prisoners. According to statistics, the number of convicts in prison institutions in Serbia is moving around 12 and a half thousand convicts. In the 1970s, in the Niš Penitentiary, about three and a half thousand convicts were placed and employed in the KP home of Pogorec always above that number. Besides, there are 25 county prisons. According to my knowledge, it is necessary to check – Belgrade County Prison is not in full prison capacity, but was simply issued to the company "Minel Schroeder". Now, because it's supposed to be half-empty. If that's the case, why don't the authorities make sure that this facility is used on purpose? When it comes to prisons, public information funds have recently announced that prisons in Vojvodina have been overrun. So in the district prison in Novi Sad, Subotica, Pancheva, as well as in the penitentiary offices in Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica. Prisoners are dissatisfied with health care and basic living conditions that involve their own bed and bed for every convict. This was all shown by the latest February of this year. There are 1900 convicts currently in Sremska Mitrovica and 1200 convicts. Prisoners have a special problem with heating during winter and swimming. The most pronounced problems are in Pancheva, Sremska Mitrovica, where they do not have hot water, it is only from six to seven hours. Of 80 people, 76 have no electricity where they live. Most convicts said they spend very little time in the clean air in Subotica. Also, research has also pointed to the problem of drug abuse in Vojvodina prisons and drug use, which is confirmed in all prisons. It is most pronounced in Sremska Mitrovica, Pancheva, Subotica. They said they were buying drugs in each other's prisons. According to a survey by the province's ombudsman, subjects in the Vojvodina prisons did not hide an informal relationship with the guards, but also excessive use of force. The biggest problem is overcrowding and overcrowding in our prisons. The justice ministry has repeatedly announced the start of a new prison in Panchev, according to a long-established project it has long been planned to build on the current prison economy, but there is still nothing. That's what the minister of justice indicated and promised. In any case, the decision will have certain effects, but only then, Mrs. Komic, if representatives of the opposition join the commission. That's one of the conditions. It's in Western countries and practices. It is certain that the opposition would be involved objectively, but objectively inform the public and this parliament. Mrs. Komic, we rely, and this is what leads to it, and when the law has been passed and now these novels, when it comes to the way in which the criminal sanctions for minor crimes are carried out, according to the agreement between the prosecutor and the convicted, we take it very easily from America. These countries of Europe and the EU are not taking over from America, these standards. Just a few words. Is it a crime in America, revenge – an electric chair is made of fine oak, and a lethal injection is actually a machine. At the beginning of the second decade of last century in America, there is a museum of crime and punishment that is in Washington. It's a execution room. There are other instruments of death available today to the perpetrators of justice in America. I don't think we're gonna adopt this. The first means, a hanging noose, where it can be seen today that it's done quite well, a gas chamber, but not a real one, but an authentic copy was made specifically for this museum in Washington. Only guns and a firing machine are missing here. There's also a lethal injection that's suddenly revealed to be a death machine with a lot of switches. In 1916, 125 convicts were convicted. The electric chair in America was introduced before the end of the 19th century and was first applied in 1890. Despite the great number of crimes and murders, there were 14,000 murders in America in 2009. Annually, several hundred of the most severe penalties are imposed. 52 people were executed last year. In 2010, 45 people. In death cells, where there are now about 3200 convicts, the convicts on average spend up to 12 years and some even more, and up to 30 years, to wait for the death penalty to be executed over them. You see, a guillotine from France was imported to America. Therefore, there were objections by the convicts. They've been complaining about a fair trial lately and the independence of the court. Long and unfounded are held in custody without giving an adequate verdict. Problems also arise when a lawyer is appointed on official duty, even though the defendant himself has the right to choose a lawyer. It is therefore necessary to take urgent measures, to form a committee from the Committee on Justice, to visit all prisons and seduce and to determine the facts. In my opinion, the only way you can get real information is if members of the opposition enter the commission. Otherwise, it's not going to be a job. What to say for 2003. In 2003, according to government regulations, against the Constitution, against the law, the Criminal Law, 12 and a half thousand citizens were deprived of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The question arises how many of these citizens have been charged and convicted? What crimes? And another question, how much did Serbia have to pay for the damages of innocent and illegal determination and detention of Serbian citizens in total of 12,500. It never happened again. We also believe that the future Code of Criminal Procedure should be a good law but a law that will regulate this matter not to change every year. The reform in prisons must be implemented. This is good that it's imagined, just how it's going to look in practice we'll see. In any case, for the state, rights condemned are of great importance. But you see, Madam Vice President, when it comes to determining detention, you will only allow me to mention that in our national legislation, there is no case in the legislation of any country in Europe that someone in prison is almost nine years, such as Dr Vojislav Seselj, that he was not given a solution to determining detention, that this solution by the relevant council did not extend detention, that he did not consider the reasons for detention? Is there a reason or not? The world's unique place is the detention of a politician, president of the SRS in The Hague for almost nine years without a proper solution and without any legal basis. This is our national law and legislation, which is what the EU is called for, and also the national legislation of Europe, which is exactly what they do not support but condemn. One Dutchman has been charged twice with hate speech and twice that court in the Netherlands is releasing him from the charge. But you see Dr Vojislav Seselj from Belgrade and others from NGOs have loaded a hate speech that has nothing to do with his actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57017	The MP has been used by the time available to you as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Judita Popovic, the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57018	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, LDP MPs support the decision to educate the Commission on the control of criminal sanctions. We are aware that this decision should have been made much earlier. Since the Code of Criminal Penalty was passed as early as September 2005. However, no rules were provided for on the basis of which the commission could be formed. It is not envisaged what is the responsibility of the commission, so the fact commission could neither be established nor formed. However, it has been about six years before the decision was realised, or the decision came before the parliament after six full years. It's a good thing there's been a decision. And it is good that it will represent a general act on the education of committees, so that the committees responsible will propose their candidates for members of that committee, elect a president and start working to improve the position of all those people and all citizens who are in the face of criminal sanctions. I'd like to say a few words about the current situation in our institutions where these criminal sanctions are carried out. Obviously there is a certain shift and there is obviously some positive progress in these institutions. Since there is a serious legal regulation that regulates how criminal sanctions are carried out, and a dose of transparency has been achieved, so much easier can be seen what is happening in our prisons. It is good that the civil sector, therefore civil sector organisations, have access to these institutions, prisons, so they can carry out one independent control and can report it to the public if they notice some negativity and some irregularities. So that's what's good at functioning our institutions to enforce criminal sanctions. However, there are some irregularities and there are some negative phenomena that have not yet been removed. But since we view this process as one process in the context of a comprehensive reform of the judiciary, we expect much change in this area over time. In particular, it would draw attention to the fact that there is a certain overload of our prisons. This overload exceeds 5,000 people from those envisaged 7,000 as far as European standards could give our institutions an opportunity, i.e. the possibility to enforce criminal sanctions in certain prisons. That means that almost twice as many prisoners, the convicts we have from what our prison facilities allow. That's inadmissible. And that's how it has to be done. In addition, we have a problem with officials, or staff who are employed in these prisons. We'd split these officers into two groups. One group would represent employees in charge of retraining, and another group would be placed in charge of security. Now we have a small number and those who should make an effort to raise those convicted persons, who will sooner or later come out of those institutions. Normally, their work depends on the extent to which they will be able to reactivate and engage in regular normal life. And when you have an insufficient number of workers in charge of such sensitive issues and such sensitive work, you can hardly expect any other results. Therefore, there should be far more effort by the competent authorities, all ministries that have certain powers over prisons, have to do much more work and much more resources to re-evaluate convicted persons. On the other hand, we also have a problem with people who work in these prisons, and should provide some peace, i.e., regular functioning of these institutions, but because there are very few of them, and given the fact that one, for example, workers, security comes from 100 to 150 convicts, you will allow it to be too many and it is a very great burden for those people who are not adequately rewarded for their work, represents extremely great stress and extremely great effort. Therefore, both groups of people who are employed in prisons should be treated in a much better way both in terms of material compensation and in terms of employment, i.e. increasing the number of people who will one day join them in this serious and sensitive work that they do. When we look at the category of persons in these institutions, then we might conclude that in fact the largest number of those convicts who have been sentenced to short prison sentences of those 12,000 I mentioned were sentenced to shorter prison sentences. That's good news, which means it's not about convicted persons who committed extremely serious crimes. When we talk about another type of person category found in these prison institutions, we might point out that there are a very large number of those who have been detained or prosecuted. It seems to me that the biggest problem with the housing of people who are in some court trial is those who are convicted, or who are being held in custody. This detention measure is unfortunately very often pronounced by the court, and that may be one of the reasons why we have such a large number of detained persons and this is not used as a final and necessary measure to ensure the presence of a person who has been processed rather than I say it is most often by some automation, which is usually quite common in our court. I think that we should pay much more attention to, therefore, how these institutes operate and how every criminal case, i.e. a misdemeanor, is ended, and how those measures that ensure the presence of a person against whom a certain criminal or criminal procedure is conducted are applied. So we can't separately observe the work of these institutions from the work of the court, it's one harmonisation of the work of state institutions at all, and only through joint work can certain effects be achieved. If better co-operation could be between the two institutions, perhaps less population in these prisons and perhaps less burden would be for those people who are employed in these prisons. We could not lose sight or the fact that persons are convicted besides having certain obligations to society, by committing crimes, have certain rights in terms of the protection of their human rights and, among other things, the protection of health. There is also one of the major problems that arises in prisons, given that for the treatment of these convicted persons, it is primarily the competent Ministry of Justice and not the Ministry of Health. Thus, the compensation paid to doctors and other staff who care about the health of convicts is often much less than the compensation provided for doctors working in hospitals or other health institutions with citizens at large. Perhaps there should also be some mode of overcoming the problem and providing the means for those who are present at the maintenance of the sentence to have adequate health care. Therefore, when we list all these shortcomings that are otherwise most visible in prisons in Serbia, I think it is good to see the government's will, or ministries in whose jurisdiction these institutions are also. This will, among other things, is being examined and one strategy has been developed, and the Action Plan has been adopted to overcome these shortcomings both in terms of capacity and in terms of adequate reward or support for employees in those institutions. There are expected to be some shifts by 2015, since so far we have been able to see that there are some changes, we can be optimistic that it will go much faster. However, it seems to me that this committee, which will be formed by the two parliamentary committees, will also contribute to the Action Plan strategy, because it is very important that parliament has a certain power of control over the execution of these criminal sanctions. It is very good that parliamentarians, together with civil sector organisations, will be able to further strengthen this transparency and make more visible any kind of abuse that can and is committed in prisons. I don't think we can talk about tomorrow. There's going to be a lot of changes. This does not mean that as of today, when we discuss this decision, we cannot expect much greater visibility and much stronger co-operation between Parliament and these prison institutions. I would hate to talk about this and some specific irregularities and abuses that can be seen every day, or presented through the media. I don't think that's going to improve the situation in our prisons much more. However, if things are formalised and the legal basis, i.e. the legal framework and legal regulations give room with all these types of supervision and control, we can expect that the situation will change in those individual cases. The execution of criminal sanctions in itself represents a very sensitive issue and topic. In itself, it provides opportunities for huge abuses and opportunities for frequent violations of human rights. For this reason, we must be very careful and very specific when laws are passed, when the law is governed. Therefore, this decision will also be one of these ways to achieve certain objectives, regardless of who proposes it, whether the government or whether the opposition agrees. It's only important to change the situation that we can agree on that it's not really the best, but of course we have to work to make things better. It's also normal that whoever works, he's wrong, and it's normal that whoever works in such difficult conditions where they work in prisons and how they can make mistakes, but that doesn't mean that those mistakes can simply be neglected. I would say just a few more words about the fact that, unfortunately, this parliamentary commission will not have the opportunity to control and control the work of the MUP authorities during police detention. We are witnessing that human rights are frequently violated in police custody, but this is another topic again and it should also be about how we try to change society, to change the relationship of the government, to change the ministry's relationship with the problem. There they must be involved, alongside the Minister and other members of the government, as well as all those employees who work directly on the ground, therefore, work on the secretariats of internal affairs, because it seems to me that no crime, any suspect in the execution of a criminal act, can be handled in this way, thus not be violated by human rights, as it was done in one period of time, and that seems to me, one of these consequences of a general social paralysis, one of the general problems with our institutions, which we, and so, we know very well that exist. Therefore, the LDP will support this decision, with expectations that the decision will be only one step towards a future reform and this area of government sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57019	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report for the word that they use their right in this part of the session? If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search, applied for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs, submitted the MPs' groups of ZES, SRS and New Serbia. We are moving on to a debate in order of registered Members of the People's Parliament. I give my word to the People's Messenger, Radoslav Milovanovic, and after that, the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57020	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honored Presidency, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have yet another decision that is very important for strengthening the integrity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for strengthening the civilizations of our society. We witness every day that here in the assembly political parties are divided into Europeans and those not for Europe. There are some that are for European integration, but unfortunately, when laws are passed that strengthen human rights and improve the lives of our citizens, they are not in the hall when it is voting day. It does not matter if the political party is interested in European integration, it is important how much it is interested in strengthening human rights and in this area of the property of this assembly are the Guardian of Citizens, the Commissioner for Information of general importance, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Commissioner for Gender Equality. Today we have a proposal for a decision on the education of the commission to enforce criminal sanctions, and the situation of my predecessors has been well considered, as it is now in prison institutions. Otherwise, this is a legal obligation from January 2006, and this composition of the National Assembly has now been put on the agenda and is ready to implement this, and I, as well as representatives of the DS, will vote for this decision. What is important and what is important, first of all, about this decision, and then I will address the issue of gender and gender equality within this committee. The composition of such a committee will be three members from the Committee on Justice and two members from the Committee, in which issues are being raised in this area, that is the Committee on Gender Equality, Labour and Social Policy, the Committee on Poverty Reduction, Health and International Relations. Since we just had one part of the legal proposal related to another state institution, I'm just going to say a few words, not to stray from the context, to commend the work of the Ministry of Defense. It's a good example of how an institution is reformed. Few people in Serbia know that on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the National Action Plan and that we as a state are one of the 20 in the world that adopted this action plan. The action plan is based, above all, on the principle of gender role in security structures, and what is very important is that it is one of the next tasks of the National Assembly, to form a national committee that will practically implement the supervisory role in the work of these services. The second thing that is related to the work of this committee, which is educated by the assembly, is something said in the previous discussion, the commission controls the execution of criminal sanctions, sees the state, status and position of persons deprived of liberty, proposes measures to remove shortcomings, has insight into records, talks with detainees and detainees and co-operates with international organisations. Given the importance of such a decision, I hope that all MPs in the Serbian assembly will vote in favour of such a decision, while at the same time calling on the media to assist the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in all important reform processes. The decision on the education of this commission is not just something that someone has tasked us with joining the EU, it is one civilizational fluid, and that is the way to look at this topic. As for the aspect of genders that are very important and which I wanted to put at the heart of my exposure, I recall that in Serbia, as in most countries in the world, women make up a minority of the general prison population. Therefore, the enforcement systems of criminal sanctions, regimes in prison institutions, are almost entirely designed for the majority male population, starting with the architecture of prisons, regimes, living conditions, safety procedures and the use of measures to force facilities for health care, contact with family, work and other forms of treatment. There's only one women's prison and it's in the town of Firevac. I'm just saying that the building from 1874 and thanks to the good work of the warden of that prison, the organization in the prison facility itself has been promoted, but what is missing and what the state needs is an increase in the number of commanding officers by about 20% and the development of post-penal protection. That's what needs to be taken care of. What will prisoners or prisoners do after leaving prison and what they will face, with various challenges from family to society, from difficulty in finding a job, etc. It is very important to take care of international human rights standards applied to prisoners. The international plan rarely points to the specificity of women's positions condemned to the penalty of imprisonment. All set standards on the prisoner's position generally apply to both sexes. Even documents that only regulate women's human rights, e.g. The Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination of Women and Technical Declarations and Platforms of Action do not contain provisions concerning women in prisons. Since there are no special documents for female prisoners as well as for the male prison population, the UN's universal human rights declaration. On the national plan, most countries adopted standard minimum rules and introduced into their laws, in addition to other provisions concerning convicted women. Research into women's prison populations, researches have shown that women are mostly convicts of poorer layers, that they are unemployed with lower education, that they have children they support, that most women prisoners have been exposed to some form of violence and abuse before they arrive at detention, that women who have been in prison are much more disciplined and condemned by families and communities than men, that the needs of women in prison are different from the needs of men, since only they care about children and have other obligations within the family, that women's health needs in prisons are different from men's health needs and have ties to women's sexual and reproductive health, that they are particularly sensitive to child abuse in prisons. In some countries, there is a high rate of mental illness among women convicted of drug use and suicidal tendencies. Special needs are for minor convicts, disabled women, foreign women, women who belong to different minorities. What should be the main role of this commission, which will be educated by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is to deal with the situation in prisons, housing in criminal and correctional institutions, then to take care of birth sensitivity, to see if there are any special prison hospitals for convicts, to take care of how personal search, feeding, hygiene packages and everything else goes with the use of leisure, what health care is, what are children's visits and all that other stuff. I think the Commission's competence is great, I repeat that it is a civilizational fluid and that this gives one new jurisdiction to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I call on the media to wash out all of these activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not only to deal with MPs and how much coffee they drink and how much they park, but simply to deal with these things because as a society we are progressing, I was just talking about the Ministry of Defence, and I think that by making these decisions and laws, we are going to improve, above all human rights, and the better lives of citizens in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57021	Nine minutes and 25 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Miko Munjic has the word, followed by the Messenger Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57022	Ladies and gentlemen, when MPs of the ruling majority make a decision on the establishment of this commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions and, in practice, to really form that commission, absolutely nothing will change in this area, therefore, in the area of criminal sanctions. It'll just be a mere satisfaction of form and nothing more. Essentially in the area of criminal sanctions will not change anything, there will be a commission that this assembly majority will determine and choose just as it chooses other commissions, committees, agencies, etc. But nothing significant is going to happen in this area. Why is that? The obligation to form a commission to monitor criminal sanctions has been in place since 1 January 2006. So on 1 January 2006, you were under obligation, in accordance with the Criminal Sanctions Code, to form a commission that will have control of the role and will exercise control over the execution of criminal sanctions. For five and a half years, you can't satisfy an ordinary form, one simplest form, and form an ordinary assembly commission. For five and a half years, it bothered you, as you say in your explanation for making this decision, that the Code of Criminal Sanctions does not determine who proposes the commission, then it is no closer to determining what criteria these criteria are for selecting this commission, then what are the tasks of that commission and what are the resources needed for the Commission's work. So for five and a half years, it was meant to determine who would propose it, what criteria were needed and what resources were needed to work this commission. Excuse me, gentlemen, from the ruling majority, and who should have changed this law? Who was supposed to propose to you the commission? Who was supposed to suggest criteria? Who was supposed to propose to you the tasks this commission will have and, finally, who should have said what funds were needed to work this commission? Did you expect the opposition to suggest that? No, you certainly didn't expect someone from the opposition to suggest it, you knew who it was, but other reasons were for not doing it so far. But it's been five and a half years, and here's what happened? Stefan File came to Belgrade and asked you -- how far did you get with the control of the execution of criminal sanctions, until you arrived and did you form a commission? Normally, you said you hadn't done it for five and a half years, and the man ordered you, and what you couldn't do in five and a half years, here overnight and during the day can be done. Here we are in the assembly procedure of the decision to form and educate a commission to enforce criminal sanctions. So what you haven't been able to do for five and a half years, when you're ordered by those of you from the EU, then you can do it now. Indeed, it is strange that your power, this EU and individual representatives of the EU, have over you. You often do a lot more than they ask. It happens very often, that you also bring those regulations to do those things that they didn't order you to do. I will remind you, and especially the citizens of Serbia, that it is the same EU, which was silent when its representatives said that this Serbia, this and this world is an idiot, and these are their words, that Serbs, a bunch, they say, are unfortunate, who do not know the charms of this most beautiful Western society. , and who have yet to learn first words about this Western society. Those were about their words when it came to the Serbian and Serbian people. File came and gave the order to form a Commission to monitor the execution of criminal sanctions, and those who gave you those orders to form agencies, many committees, many commissions, and this commission, the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions, were also silent when that David Gompert said, Serbs are a virus to be destroyed. You listen to them now, and do whatever they tell you and order. They are the same ones who want to remove from Serbia those who allegedly speak hate. They're the ones who bombed us with the speech of love, but through the poor uranium. That's the EU you're flocking to. That is why no one should be surprised that the citizens of Serbia are already not for the EU. We heard data that 80% of Serbian citizens do not want to join the EU. He doesn't want to hear a word from the EU, especially the NATO Pact. You want to convince us that overnight you're going to do something you couldn't for five and a half years to do, that overnight by forming some commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, you're going to improve the situation in this area. Here, you just heard the proposal of my distinguished colleague, Peter Jojic. Let the opposition do it. Let the opposition take a look at the state of our prisons and deliver that insight here to the Serbian Parliament. There is this in practice of other European countries where the opposition does so. Believe that in that case, finding such an independent commission, which would have made an insight into the state of enforcement of criminal sanctions, would have been much more adequate, much better and much fairer. It is clear to all of you, as it is clear to us, that the situation in our prisons is disastrous. It is clear that there are up to 12,000 detainees in prisons across Serbia instead of between five and six thousand, the capacity of prisons. But it's not a basic problem that you've been hiding from the public eye for a long time, there's something else, something quite different and bigger that's hiding behind the hill. I ask the question -- what are the real reasons why prisons in Serbia are so full? Is that an increased number? Is it really because of the increased number of crimes and the increased number of perpetrators, or is it something else? Is there any responsibility for what it is? I'm just going to give you one little example. Remember that so-called. The parade you called the Pride Parade. I remind you that security assessments at the time were that it was a very high-risk parade, a much greater risk than the Partizan derby – "Red Star". However, instead of canceling something like that for security reasons, you consciously went to it, knowing that it could easily come to a critical situation, as it did. Furthermore, I ask the question of how many political inconsistencies are in our prisons? Will the commission you form have the strength to determine some facts like this, some facts that you certainly won't like, and you'll find ourselves in our prisons with such a thing? How many mounted processes are filling our prisons? Why is there so little parole? Why do courts so little dare to make a positive decision on requirements for parole? This is one of the questions that must surely be addressed and which this commission should investigate in its work. If she's gonna be impartial about it, I'm not sure. Who dictates it and where is it dictated from? Furthermore, is it true that in some courts in Serbia, the percentage of negative decisions on parole requirements goes up to 97%? And you will come across it by visiting Serbian prisons. What's that about? However, it is important that you in the strategy predicted that more prisons in Serbia would be built by 2015. Where's the youth education? Where's the investment in their employment? Where's more money for hiring young people, for hiring at all? Where's more money for agriculture, etc.? You boast there will be more prisons in Serbia by 2015. Simply this government seems to want to remain remembered as one government whose greatest achievements are many containers, many containers with five stars, whose achievements of folk cuisine are for many hungry and homeless people, whose greatest achievements are 400,000 fired from work, many unfulfilled promises and, behold, now in the end, whose achievements will be to rise from many more prisons. Now, that's your accomplishments. You know, even more sad memories of what this government was, when it formed, promising. She made a lot of promises. Remember before the government, you remember that prime minister who told the pensioners -- do you want pensions or do you want jobs for your grandchildren? It was at the end of 2003 when you promised to join the EU quickly by 2007. You probably remember that, too. Even after this commission is formed to control the execution of criminal sanctions, nothing will be better, it will certainly be the same as it was, and perhaps worse. Finally, I believe that this government, which this commission is supposed to help in fact in its work, because it simply helps the Resort Ministry in some way, will be remembered as one government that actually exists as a two-armed government, one is longer and one is shorter. This long arm serves to be taken and it reaches everywhere. This shorter, since it's shorter, you know, it only gives those closest, the closest to you. This government is probably doing very well. She only gives to those who are close to her. What the Pyrocans have said, and this government, as well as all those so far since 2001, has come to power, each government goes to the ground and escapes. You've done a lot of scratching, you're about to run away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57023	Here you go, Mr. Perry, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57024	There's no contrast anywhere, ladies and gentlemen, like in Serbia. A growing number of rules are being passed by this parliament, and in Serbia, it is becoming more and more difficult to live, and an increasing number of unemployed, fewer employees, and less and less benefit farmers have from their products. We're not going to talk about what recently happened to a large number of our agricultural producers. We now have on the agenda two decisions to make this parliament and debate, a common and unique search is here. I have tried to find what is common between these two general acts and I have seen that it is common that for one authorised representative Bosko Ristic, and for the other Nenad Konstantinovic, they are members of the DS. These two decisions have nothing in common. They couldn't argue together, but that's not the problem. Let's say how much the National Assembly, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia made a decision in one term. Here, this great Neca, Neca OTPOR, told a fine story about the motion for a decision on the organisation and operation of the service of the National Assembly and left. Is it so uninteresting that it is heard that we see what the MPs have, who don't look at things exactly like him, say about it, so that they don't listen to any suggestions, not a single proposal from the MPs who are talking about this right now, but this won't be the last general act to be passed over the next period, what and how should it be done? But that's not your goal. Here is how weak the National Assembly under this organization and leadership has weakened, as it has fallen to the low branches, the fact that the decision regarding professional services of the National Assembly has not been made within six months, as stated by the Law on the National Assembly in Article 75. The Law on the National Assembly, to be passed within six months, and the law was passed in February 2010. A similar situation was with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He was delivered in July 2010. These acts stated that this decision should be made within six months. We don't suggest it until after a year. We thought there would be something here that would better regulate the work of this Parliament. However, it has nothing to do with it. When will this National Assembly make its own plan of work, not be made by the government? I think Mrs Gordana Komic did well when she said this morning what the working regime will be like in today's day and what tomorrow. She's already given up on it this afternoon. We're going to have something different working mode than she did this morning. But we are not better or used to it, not than Mrs. Komic, from Boris Tadic's regime, there is nothing better to hope for. We can handle this, we MPs. How are the citizens of Serbia for whom we are here? Someone earlier tried to divide the MPs into those who were for the EU, for integration, and counterpart Zoran Krasic every morning, as soon as he got up, has precise reports as many people against the EU in that day, that is, the previous day to 24 hours and how much against the NATO Pact. Well, none of the representatives, of the people who would like to know what I'm doing as a MP, have asked me so far, no matter who he loves or who he cheers for, when we're going to be in the EU. I guess they don't give a shit about it, but they're asking me -- is there going to be a job, what this government is thinking, how and how to help farmers who are unemployed in the other sector, how can those who are schooling be hired tomorrow, how to treat themselves sick? These are the basic questions that ask me, and I ask them to you, dear colleagues. Speaking of relationship and treatment to representatives of the softer sex, yes, they need help and I wish I could ask one question where he came from, in Kučev – why is a young woman who is also a mother of two children, if I'm not mistaken, lost her job because she didn't want to leave the SRS? To answer that question would be much more important than to discuss how many of us there are for and how much against the EU. I suggest that Serbian citizens ask the question exclusively for an answer from Professor Krasic. He knows it best, and every morning he'll inform them for free how it is and how popular DS is. It seems to me that against one 92% and against another 80% and against the DS is almost 100% Serbian citizens. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Pericic, but as soon as it is on the agenda, the Assembly will certainly discuss it. Now please return to your agenda. I am talking about a decision concerning the organization of the National Assembly. Such questions also come through the service of the National Assembly. We have to talk about it sometimes. But, of course, all the time I'm gonna be talking about this decision that's about the education of that commission. So it would be good for us to hear why the National Assembly or the Administrative Committee, the Secretary-General and the professional services could not have offered such a decision sooner. When it is said that instead of the seven sectors so far in the professional sector, there will be four sectors, a smaller number of employees are expected, and we have heard that we do not have enough employees. This can be expected in the next period, although we have had it so far and it is not a problem at all. Every day we see a new person who has been hired exclusively thanks to party belongings and nothing else, not to professional preparation, not to any special qualification and knowledge, but only to party membership. We have considered and we have proposed a colleague of the Verica Radeta and I to take another sector, in addition to these four sectors foreseen by this decision, and this is the sector for the affairs of parliamentary groups. You see how we think and at the moment when we are in opposition – that not only should the work of professional service be arranged but everything we adopt certain laws, both when we are in power and when we are in opposition. I'll prove to you later, when we talk about this second decision, that he's a member of 278. The law on criminal sanctions has been amended three times to make this decision, or to be proposed today after five and a half years. That's why I think this amendment should have been adopted, where another, fifth sector is proposed as part of the service in the National Assembly to assist parliamentary groups. I don't need that help now, not DS or G 17 plus, and I don't know which parties all who make and support this government, because they're getting proposals from the government, but when they're in the opposition tomorrow, it would certainly be good if they had the opportunity to have one part of the sector or one sector helping in the work of these parliamentary groups. When it comes to the decision on the education of the commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions, it means that the law was passed in 2006 and Article 278, provided for one commission and I agree with the explanation given at the end of this decision that there were not enough elements to form this commission. Then, as of 11 September 2009, the Code on Criminal Sanctions was amended and only amended in that Article 278, it was also required by the Criminal Sanctions Administration to submit a report once a year on the situation in that administration to the Commission. But that wasn't enough either, as you say, because it wasn't exactly known how to provide the funds, in any way to organize that commission. Then it's once again, 17. 05. In 2011, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions entered into force, where it is precise and, I believe, on the basis of these third amendments, and after five and a half years, the possibility was created for the Committee on Administration and Justice to propose one such decision. The Commission is proposed to have a total of five members, of which three members will be members or alternate members of the Board of Administration and Justice, or later of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, and two other members, and that will be five, by one other committee, and in fact it will be in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of Two Committees. I don't know how you're going to define that. There's going to be a problem. When it is said how long that commission's mandate will last, we will have a situation where at one point, once the mandate has been verified, we will not have that commission because the mandate to the previous members of the committee will cease and the National Assembly is verified at the moment when the mandates of two thirds of the MPs elected, not the moment when they are appointed, first the Assembly committees, and then when the Assembly Committee personally proposes these two, and that will actually be three Assembly committees, when he personally proposes solutions for the members of this committee. This commission should be the kind of civilian control over the execution of sanctions in prisoners in our prisons that are now overrun. Indeed, what my predecessor Mirko Munjic was talking about should be analysed once, and this can and must be done by the government of the Republic of Serbia, to see why and how many people are in prison. We're going to have a growing number of honest, honest and honest people who can't settle their obligations because of unemployment, and then there's going to be a turning of fines into prisons, and then they're going to be there with criminals who have come to great wealth, with murderers, and that's going to have a negative impact on what's been suggesting lately -- wearing that bracelet. She'll certainly be a privilege only to those rich. But maintaining a prison sentence also has one preventive message – that anyone who might dare for any reason to commit a crime always hangs over his head that there is a possibility that his freedom will be limited. There is nothing more than freedom today, and so is the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who has left voluntarily and has been in The Hague for nine years and has defended Serbia and the interests of the Serbian people and suggests that others, to the extent that they can and are obliged, and the ministers of this government are obliged to create conditions for a better life for Serbia's citizens and to be better for those for whom you, and again, when the election campaigns begin, and now, you will go again to convince them to show you confidence, and only to remember unemployment, uncertainty and one great uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57025	Thank you. Mr. Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57026	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, since I was called in the speech of the previous speaker, just to say that it is true that she lost the job of the representative of the SRS, but I would only remind you that the DS is not in power in the municipality of Kučevo. In the municipality of Kučevo, the SNS, the Socialist Movement Vulin and Vlaska Democratic Party of Serbia are in power. Let's just say that the job lost DS members as well. As far as DS is concerned, we've reacted, of course, to both the media and other ways. In particular, as far as the SRS board is concerned, it is also provided with assistance. So you can ask around. And for the rest of it, for getting back to work, we couldn't do it, we weren't in power, and we just don't have that kind of opportunity. Of course, after the next election, when we take over the management of the municipality of Kučevo, we will correct all these shortcomings and establish a normal climate in our municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57027	The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57028	I thank my colleague Milovanovic. I think the Serbian Radical Party will be in position, before the Democratic Party, in the municipality of Kučevo to solve these negative problems and phenomena made by DS together with the SNS. I didn't mean to point anything at your address, but I just wanted to say that our job and our job shouldn't be here to find out who's Eurosceptic and who's Eurofanatic, but to help people live a little better. This is our primary task in this parliament, of course by passing laws that Serbian citizens should benefit from. That was the point. Have a little patience, but in the next elections responsibility for the state in the municipality of Kučevo will surely take over and fully commit SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57029	Thank you. You solve the problem, it's good for everyone. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57030	Today in the Parliament of Members of the ruling coalition, there is no need to build a water polo team with reserves. This shows the relationship between the ruling coalition and the fate of these two decisions that we need to make today. Simply, the chairman of the Administrative Committee who proposed this decision on the organisation of the work of the National Assembly said on behalf of him, and did not say on whose behalf he rejected or accepted certain amendments because, as far as I know, the Administrative Committee did not meet to discuss the amendments, because the last Administrative Committee, which had far more important issues, had no quorum. Elem, he comes, some amendments accept, amendments to the ruling coalition parties, amendments to opposition parties, or the SRS, mostly rejects, picks up and, behold, miracles, picks up after him and goes at least 3/4 more of them. That's why you don't have enough for the water polo club. Law on the National Assembly passed 27. 2. 2010 Why wait 16 months? Who's responsible? Why has the National Assembly not made such a decision for 16 months on the organization and operation of the National Assembly? What prevented the National Assembly when it has passed so many unsuspecting laws so far, in two terms, I am a bound-up MP, so I know what you did when you were drilling here into your chest – let's go to Europe, only we didn't go, etc. We passed laws that didn't serve anything, they didn't use anyone, except the ministers who proposed them, because when they took down the ministerial functions, they could boast -- here, at the time of my ministry, this and this law was passed. Today you're making guillotine for regulations that are just like this. Who knows how many of these laws that the National Assembly has brought, where we worked until morning, will go into that guillotine, because they are simply useless, inapplicable, contradictory to each other, simply entering each other's segments, and what's worse, many of these laws had in their norms parts that came directly out of the Constitution, exceeding the Constitution, to say the least. Then we came to the situation that these laws have a hill, that the decisions we've made have a hill, that were of no use to anything, and here they are, you'll have to, because they ordered you from Europe to settle the legislation. As if nothing existed before DOS won power in the "bulldozer revolution" in Serbia. That's how it started. It went literally, not to say, from zero. What is wrong with this decision to organise the work of the National Assembly? Take the introductory notes, the last position there at point 2) says – the jobs described in item 1 of this point service perform professionally, quality, efficient, economically, impartially and politically neutrally. Well, how else can the service do business in this area, if not just like this? Why does he have to write here? Is it possible that we don't humiliate those people who work in those departments a little bit? I can tell you that people in the service of the National Assembly, no matter what their names are talking about the National Assembly, work for extremely low wages, extremely difficult and responsible jobs. The SRS has never had a problem with the service. We've had problems with ministers, we've had problems with service chiefs and we've had problems with you from the ruling coalition, but never with employees in the service. What else is wrong with this decision? Let's say, what we've been looking for with the amendments is that the sector for the work of parliamentary groups, that would be one of the most important sectors in this assembly, because all jobs are done right through the parliamentary groups and the people in this sector would have full hands of work, and that would put them in other services and deploy them into some other organisational parts really, first of all, it's not purposeful, because it's going to be a lot more time spent to have the same effect, which ultimately has to be achieved, we're going to spend a lot more time than this. I don't see why, besides all these sectors, there are at least two other sectors that I could say are less necessary and less important than this sector that the SRS is proposing. But that is why the chairman of the Administrative Committee simply said – it is not acceptable. Who, him? The board of directors didn't sit on this issue. In this sector, jobs would be for the needs of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, the work of preparing and drawing up draft laws and other general acts and their compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the work of preparing and making amendments, the draft laws and other general acts and their compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and information-research jobs for the purposes of the parliamentary group and other business in the sector. The amendment, Mr. Konstantinovic, did not accept on his own behalf. What else is wrong here? I see, he suggested, say, Mr. Mikovic, and that's the amendment that was adopted, as I recall. It says, in point 16) of the third indent, it is changed and it is said – the work of an analysis of the bill and other general acts, which is exactly what he said was called, except for this "their compliance" etc. Why does an analysis of the law's proposal to do congregation service? Why doesn't the promoter do it? Why does the Proposer not agree with the bill before bringing it before the MPs and not seeing whether it is in accordance with both the Constitution and the other laws it touches and with these European regulations which you are now filling the back of each law? Have we received laws that have no legal norms, a law that is a beautiful story? It was wanted for some minister to write a novel and he wrote it, he only arranged the points – Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, Article 4. etc. They don't commit to anyone, they don't make any of that law, but there's a need to be passed because if the minister, my God, loses now... Or in those combinations of yours, you're a minister now, you're a vice president, now you're no longer a minister, so you're out of the ministry, then there wouldn't be any trail left, even if this trail was behind him. In this paragraph 5. – filling in the position of enforcement jobs etc., it does not say that a competition commission should be formed. How are you going to fill new jobs in the service? Who's gonna decide? Who will be the one to determine that individual members have met the conditions of the competition and who is the better candidate? Who's left it to? There is no such thing here in this decision. In the end, I'd move on to this second draft decision, it's a little longer here. The law was passed on 1 January 2006. So far, and that's six years ago, there has been no commission of control in this area of social life. Who's to blame? It says this - the legal obligation of the National Assembly to educate this commission has existed since 1 January 2006, since the application of the Criminal Penalty Act, which was adopted in September 2005, and then you say in an explanation – those provisions of the law, other than those solutions, did not contain any closer provisions on how to propose members of the Commission, criteria for their choice, on the task of that commission, on the security of working conditions, etc. First of all, I would say about how the commission was proposed, did this decision have to wait for the commission to form? Did six years have to wait to form a committee that is a congregation body and which could form as all other committees and committees form – proportionately, in line with the number of MPs of each parliamentary group? The commission's tasks. Didn't the law say what the commission was doing? Ensuring working conditions – what are the conditions for the Commission's work to be provided so that it can function normally? The resources necessary for the commission's work? I've prepared a lot for this second point, but I should leave time for other MPs, so I have a lot left unspeakable, but my fellow MPs will certainly say what is needed to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57031	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here is a very short one on the proposal for a decision on the education of the commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, because colleagues, especially colleagues, Jojic, really spoke exhaustively about this. We cannot help but remind that this commission, it says, will count three members who are elected from the ranks of members of the board in whose work is the judiciary and two in the field of human rights. This means Bosko Ristic another significant state function. There's no way this is gonna go away without him. What is the role of this committee? This is pretty pointless that it's written here. Nothing's going to get fixed in prisons, nothing's going to mean that a commission is going to be formed, which is going to make a trip to visit some prison, to determine the situation, etc. The fact is that there are problems where prison sanctions are maintained, but these problems cannot be solved by this commission, it is a problem at the level of the state that should be solved as part of the full problem of the judiciary. You know, every day we listen to this resistance, Homer. He's telling us some new fairy tales about what he's going to do epochically again in the area of the judiciary, like he didn't say until yesterday that everything was regulated, that the judiciary was reformed. Now a little bit again, a little bit so it comes up with some new ideas and announces some changes of laws by the end of this year, etc. To me, there was an interesting discussion of colleagues from the ruling coalition, I don't know how this decision could have been connected to some kind of gender equality, when a colleague started to sort out where everything should be women, where everything should be men, I expected him to propose that in prison, as in the National Assembly, there must be one woman among every three convicted. It's really vomity. You're exaggerating. It's like saying one-third of the surgeons have to be women. They didn't finish surgery? It doesn't matter, give me scissors, give me scalpel, rip it, enough to be a woman, it doesn't matter that you didn't finish that specialization. It's really degutant. Let us seriously discuss these rather unserious acts that we have in front of us today. You have a problem executing criminal sanctions. A few months ago, the law was changed because it was a problem, it was a public secret, about providing guardians for the Legion. People won't guard the Legion. It is again a problem that cannot be solved by this commission, which I guarantee, will be led by Bosko Ristic. The problem of drug abuse in prisons, mass fights, strikes, hunger strikes. You remember a few months ago when prisoners strike hunger in prison homes, but it was in the shadows at the time, because the media were following Tomislav Nikolic when he was on strike. You remember the time when he didn't eat anything between lunch and dinner, so they all followed that so-called. strike. So there are a lot of problems in this area, but we argue that this decision will not solve these problems. This morning, the nation rejoiced when the media released last night electronically, Ken got out of jail and put on his foot. Good for the people. What about those, the other day there was a report also in the media, people who can't pay criminal penalties going to serve five or ten days in prison? So, all of you gentlemen have turned upside down and all of this to meet some European criteria is just real chaos and real damage to the citizens of Serbia. That is why we, Serbian radicals, do not miss the opportunity not to stress the SRS' stance – Serbia must not join the EU, Serbia must not go to NATO, Serbia must turn to itself and to its verified friends, above all the Russian Federation, and avoid compliance with EU rules. What's in it for us? We don't have anything. We have a second decision on the organization and work of the National Assembly. Of course, how late it is to make this decision, as well as these previous ones, that is, not to mention since it is perfectly common for sublegal acts in this House to be taken with months or years of delay. Before sublegal acts are passed, the law has changed several times, and that is something that has become the manner of this ruling majority. This decision, no Mr. Konstantinovic, president of the Administrative Board, and there is no Mr. Legislative Committee President Vlatko Ratkovic, would draw attention to them that this decision is absolutely not in line with the methodology they voted on. Obviously something like that was done again, just to be done. There are many problems when it comes to the organization and work of the service of the National Assembly. Of course, all these problems stem, specifically from the Secretary-General, from the President of Parliament. All the problems that exist can be solved in these places. These days we have read that some competitions are being discussed to fill some new jobs in the congregation. On the other hand, some people get fired. Among the ranks and towers is the talk, again filling some places with some party personnel, of course, from the parties of the ruling coalition. Whoever does not meet the conditions, who is like that Vic, that is something that is difficult to reach the public, can not even reach the MPs, of course. I want to say publicly that the only employees working in the SRS parliamentary group are the only ones who are on time. They're being extended every two or three months. All others in the Serbian Parliament are permanently employed, only officials working for the SRS parliamentary group are not. It's possible that for this very reason, this way, this decision has been made, and this decision where such services will no longer exist so that they may then be fired. For God's sake, it won't just go away. I'll inform Konstantinovic in advance. We see that you have predicted here and that someone, according to Konstantinovic, will take care of the costs etc. You're a little late for not making this decision at least a few days earlier, so we might have known sooner and who it was given 59,000 euros to create a new assembly site. My people, the most modern website can be done for 500 euros. I apologize for reducing the figure, 85,000 euros for making the assembly site has been given. Whoever had an understanding of it gets baptized with both the left and the right. People who are from that area say - aman, why didn't you hire us for 500 euros to make you a website? They didn't forget those skeletons either. You remember how many months those skeletons were around the assembly. Every day 700 euros has been paid for these skeletons. Then we're hiding here in some decision, that is, you're hiding by some decision. You'll sort out the organization and work of the National Assembly. Konstantinovic then says, what he has not adopted, it is good that Momo Markovic noticed in whose name a man adopts or does not adopt amendments and we really cannot understand that. It is not true, when he said, regarding the amendment relating to the introductory provisions, that it stands in this text as to how the service performs professional and administrative activities, or that the service is required to perform etc. He's kind of losing his sense of having an empty O.R. debate here, 'cause he's not here. But I have to say, he made one big mistake when he was talking about the amendment. Unfortunately, when it comes to decisions, amendments are not particularly discussed. It is clear that they will not be adopted. For the sake of the public, which is stupidity contained, one of the stupidities at point 12. Regular No. 4 – Internal Service Organization, then Organizational Units, Special Internal Units within the Organizational Units Service are: departments with at least eight employees, section with at least five employees. It's an internal unit rope, and a group with at least three employees. Of course, we have proposed an amendment to delete this group. The department can exist, the department can exist. But when Konstantinovic here said he did not accept this amendment, he said we suggested that we delete the section with at least three employees. It's not true. It's not about the department. It's about the group. It's really some informal group. The maintenance sector of the National Assembly's facilities, after all this work and what you've done, how much money you've put into the National Assembly and that maintenance, so I guess there shouldn't be any more. You're not gonna do anything else, are you? The section for parliamentary groups – it is not true what Konstantinovic said that we proposed the amendment to introduce the sector. That sector existed and exists. But now, for completely unknown and completely unargued and illegal reasons, this sector is being abolished. Who will then be responsible for the people who work for the parliamentary groups? The Legislative Committee? It's just amazing. It's really amazing. I don't know how it could have occurred to someone to accept this and not accept our amendment. In the legislative sector, among other things, they are carried out, imagine the affairs of an analysis of the draft law and other general acts and their compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. Aman's people, they're not gonna let the departments and sectors in the Assembly take over the Legislative Committee's obligations, are they? Does anyone think for themselves when they write something like this? Or do you really think we're jerks who don't read this, who won't let the public know what kind of nonsense you're proposing and what nonsense with 126 votes you're adopting? The biggest job of any future government will be to ratify these regulations of yours, which really hurt the head, which are inapplicable and which are abnormal, which create chaos in the area they regulate. This was supposed to pass as something that was supposed to be brought and not pay much attention to this. That's probably what you expected, but it's impossible when you do something like this, that it goes without any serious criticism about the SRS. In the fifth chapter - filling out the position of the execution post and the position of the tenant, and here we intervened with the amendment. You say that the act from this previous point is closer to organizing the composition of the competition commission, and then at the stage of the process – imagine, selection of candidates, content and way, previous checks of knowledge, skills etc. We have simplified that and said that it is necessary to say that this applies to the composition and manner of the competition commission. The bottom line is, you've had this all over again, so it looks like something bomby, and in fact you don't have that commission, nor does that commission have a role to play. The Assembly employs one who is employed by Veljko Odalovic. Veljko Odalovic deals with the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups. I repeat, employees of the SRS parliamentary group are the only ones working for a certain time. We hope and hope that at least this public appeal and this public appeal will have a little impact on the Secretary-General's awareness and on his conscience, that he does not share, as the president and chairman of parts of the Members of the People's Party on the favorite and unfavorable. Yes, colleague Novakovic. Why are you frowning? Have you ever punished an MP who's not from the SRS? You're not. Radicals did. It's not possible that we're the only ones who make and that we're the only ones who break the Rules of Procedure. The kind of relationship you have with the MPs, the secretary general has to do with your employees. Our people said, "You can do whatever you want, but you will not go as far as you want." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57033	The word is Mr. Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57034	Thanks for the line. Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Although I am privately good with MPs and MPs of the SRS, I simply cannot believe that these words are used in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. That I'm using puzzling expressions about whether there's some god-awful inequity of women to say something here. So, I don't think we understand each other at all, and that is the biggest problem, and there will probably be an SRS problem when the elections come. I simply did not advocate being 30% in prison, the story is quite different, the story is that women have different needs from men and you should know that every other day there is violence against citizens in Serbia, that every week a woman suffers from some man and that it is mostly the reason that women are detained and that it cannot do the same. It cannot be treated the same way, women have special needs and, of course, the responsibility of this commission chosen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to look at the situation and to see the conditions of living prisoners, what are the conditions of the work of the people working in those institutions. We've only got one women's prison here in the firehouse and you need to go see what it looks like. My recommendation would be for SRS MPs and MPs to go to seminars more often, not to boycott the work of the board and simply to see what conditions some people live and work on, what problems there are in some institutions, unfortunately inherited problems. I mentioned earlier that the warden of women's prison is an example of good practice as to how some problems are solved in Pogorevec, and we are here to help them. You yourself know that we, apart from participating in the preparation of today's law, are helping citizens and that this is our primary task. And these aren't demagogue stories, this has nothing to do with the story...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57035	Thank you. Time's up. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57036	My colleague Milovanovic, of course I would not react to your discussion, but I must now say that it is truly degutant that someone will report something first or second time during the term of office to say from the seat of the MP when they say that the SRS MPs are boycotting parliament's work. It is simply amazing, the Serbian citizens are witnesses who are the only ones who are seriously working in this parliament. And I wouldn't have, I wouldn't have thought to comment on what you said, but I did, of course, characterise what you were saying about the relationship between women in prisons, but I did say and I say that it is degutantly what Boris Tadic's regime represents as some kind of equality. The SRS absolutely is for equality, the SRS is absolutely against all violence, but the SRS is absolutely for justice and for justice, the SRS, unlike DS, advocates that the law is equal for all and that they are all the same before the law. Comrade Milovanovic, you may not personally, but a regime whose exhibit is done all the opposite of that. You have pets, the regime has favorites who can steal, who can beat, who can harass free citizens, the people on the street, whoever, no one can do anything to them, they're not in prison for them. The last, possibly, can bracelets or nuns whatever they call it and, of course, they can buy their freedom, etc., but where are you gentlemen from the regime when it comes to the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57037	Thank you. We're very far away from the subject, so please let's get closer to the subject both in replicas and in discussions. Mr. Radoslav Milovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57038	Dear Chairman, since I'm directly named by name and last name, I don't think this really makes any sense. So I'm not reporting for the first time or for the second time we can check it out in stenographic notes, I'm very actively participating, and I'm not boycotting the work of the assembly committees, I'm talking about committees not boycotting the work of the Assembly. I am very regular at all seminars organised by the Assembly committees and there you can hear practically what is going on and where is the choking of human rights, that's what I'm talking about. These are some basic civilization standards. It has nothing to do with the regime, it has nothing to do with the party, it has to do with human values. We in the DS respect human values, respect the right of minorities, respect gender equality. That's why we're different from the others, that's the point, that's the difference between us and you. We know how to look at the problem, we know how to escort it, and we always suggest a solution to that problem. We have proposed to the Commission, do you have any other specific proposal on how to control prison work, how to control the State Security Service, how to control the work of other institutions? Together with NGOs, we are always engaged in solving problems, and while we have a proposal unlike others and a proposal and we are ready to step on the head of that team that solves the problem. This very proposal is the theme of today’s session of the congregation. That's not what anyone told me, nor did anyone give me a speech. Attending these seminars, I've noticed what kind of problems women and people whose rights are at stake are facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57039	Thank you. Mrs. Verica Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57040	Our knowledge is that everyone faces problems in prisons and women and men. Our findings are that lawyers who are close to the authorities, guards who are close to the authorities are bringing cell phones to prisons, prisons, and drugs into prisons, and that's a lot of good money. You're asking what our proposal is? Our proposal is to banish DS policy from the judiciary. Release the judges and prosecutors of the influence of the ruling regime. Where are you going to make a better suggestion? You say you work on congregation committees? Let me ask you, and when the next item is on the agenda, have you perhaps attended the Administrative Committee that started the work without the necessary quorum? Do you attend or work on some serious committees? Since you respect, here I have no doubt of all guaranteed human rights and freedoms, have you perhaps voted in favour of abolishing my fundamental constitutional right to have my party have my mandate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57041	Thank you. We ended up with a straight replica. Mr. Krasic will get his word. Here you go. Time remaining 14 and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57042	Mr. Novakovic, at first I just have to draw your attention that we have the Law on the National Assembly and we have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and it's just amazing that this commission is being made by a decision without already being regulated by the law and the Rules of Procedure as general acts, because the need to form a commission has not fallen from the sky, has not fallen as a reflection of some practical state but above all as a legal obligation, that is the first thing. Another detail, which I think is very important to consider this decision on the establishment of this commission to monitor the execution of criminal sanctions, is that we, under the Law on the National Assembly and by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have committees and working bodies with different tasks, competences, and they should be formally and legally in the same status. No working body of the National Assembly has a legal personality. It has only the permissive power regarding the proposal for general acts adopted by the National Assembly and the other should have nothing. Since 2003, however, you have given the committees the authority and capacity of the promoter, so the official proposer of the governor's election, members of the Securities Commission, and that I do not order any further. It's totally unconstitutional. The fact that all that is brought into the National Assembly is constitutionally not true. The fact that someone thinks what has to be done by law can be done and the decision is also not true, but, you know, there's a 126 magic here, and then there's everything. Do you need a commission like that? It probably takes some control of the executive authority in this segment. You know what here are a few interesting proposals, let's say -- change this director of the Administration for the execution of office sanctions, this Rambo from Homeland Security, and you've done your job. He was Chief SUP here during the Sabre, and now you've given him some commendation. However, he was a state security worker, who was on the line with Canet Subotic in Budva, which is why he allegedly fell into the shaft and broke his leg, in fact the mafia broke his legs. There you are holding such people in very important functions. Furthermore, as Serbia is rather "declining" not only in terms of territory, but also in terms of population, and we need prison capacity, so I guess it's the other way around. The smaller the citizens, the less the prison should be, the less we have it the other way around, in reverse terms. You know, as with some government representatives, the opposite ratio of intelligence and corruption. So, it's just that there are some amazing things going on with us. You know, after a witness from an associate of Chummet who now has a police guard, 15 people can step on the streets, he can go with security to a business partner, give some guys slaps. So now, Mr. Novakovic, that you're in some business, that he comes with that bullument, to see if you don't want to conclude with him. Let's see who's in charge of Chummet not to pay his dues or what Mrkonjic would say before the deadline. He'll have to do what he's gonna do before it's too late. You simply made such a system of values. As a result of such a system of values, it is likely that a number of people are waiting for a prison sentence, and unfortunately our traditional prison institutions are increasingly something else, hospitals for drug treatment, it must be said, a temporary shelter for proven wrongdoers, who, because of their vices simply meet their needs in prison, cannot be on the street. We have a situation that it's a good business, because the market economy has taken over, the business is the mobile phone and the corresponding amount of medicine, and so can those from Galennik, there's no problem, there's no problem there. It's just our reality. These institutions cannot perform their basic function of resociation during the maintenance of the prison sentence, but rather it comes as some sort of isolation. Then if there is no proper view of the persons involved in the maintenance of the prison sentence or its selective observation, and in what department should it endure any social mileage, environment, etc., then it is no wonder that highly qualified prisoners become highly qualified criminals, sophisticated in conditions when you watch TV when police beat up a criminal and resist fire on the police. Also, it creates some ambience and some things. We have a lot of empty cash registers. They can do pretty well, be a place to hold a prison sentence and be half-opened wards, open wards, that's no problem. You can handle it, but there's an interest, and apparently you're forming this commission under pressure. Otherwise I have to tell you that the work of this commission has been done by NGOs so far, the Red Cross, some others. When said in Serbia "non-governmental organisations" are spies, it is known. It's not my brain, it's just like that, people can't take that attitude away from NGOs. This has been financed from abroad, and since 2002 the RS government has also funded NGOs. You remember how Miljenko Dereta hit it when you gave Natashi Kandić more and a little less to him. It's an ambience now, it's that magic, 126, and there's no big story there. This decision of yours to form and set up this committee, it's a mere political declaration that won't even hold up this debate, believe me. That's how you talked about the epochal results that you expect in the transformation of the judiciary, and you know what happened here, the prosecution and what happened. When you reform something, you're counting on it to destroy it so it doesn't stay stone on stone, that it doesn't move that grass anymore. That's what citizens know, there's no such thing as great enthusiasm. In addition to the joy and joy of these MPs in the National Assembly, there is no longer the pro-European enthusiasm or the MPs of the parties who support this coalition government. They don't care about that anymore. Probably some share money now, so they're not present at the National Assembly, and we insist on our composition, there's always more of us than you in the National Assembly. We show persistent, persistent struggles to make our ideology dominant, and we do well to have this job, which is an extremely good job. We can't even practically get into a situation where we're serious, because with a 126 number, we can't talk seriously, because it's just a couple of passwords. As for this second parole, which concerns the organization of the National Assembly, I just have to remind the citizens who are monitoring this transmission. The National Assembly used to have 69 employees. There's over 360 today. Once the National Assembly building was provided by 17 police officers, there are 170 of them today. There hasn't been a change because of those hooligans who are 5. The 10th set fire and here blew everything up, etc., destroyed it. It is not because of those who have renovated, so they have made money, like that Micunovic for those very unreliable systems or some others who have helped him, etc. That famous fund Dinkic wrote a 1200-page book about. Of course, that didn't go into criminal responsibility, because you're arguing until you get together, when you get together, you know. The blind who gathers you, it's money, power, position. Power only has one who has money, no more authority here based on intellectual and other abilities. They all put too pragmatic in market economy conditions when the laws of supply and demand apply. I must draw your attention, Mr. Novakovic, there is a man in this assembly named Vuk Fatic. Someone earlier said that people who work in the National Assembly receive small wages. It's not big wages, I have to say, but there are people who receive very good wages, pay more than the president of the National Assembly. These are the shots that came from the Federal Assembly, they're favorites yet, I don't know, they don't believe it's the Lakovs, but maybe from Branko Nikolic here. They are children of first fighters, fallen fighters, etc., grandchildren of fallen fighters who, you see in the Assembly, are those who walk these files. Six years didn't hit one sentence and they wrote something. They're protected as the media here and they have this so-called. The bankruptcy rights from the federal authorities, they've been put in here, and it has to be respected. Now let me get back to Mr. Wolf Fatic. He's the biggest sponsor of his side, 300,000 and he paid for something. He can't make money in the National Assembly, I don't believe he can make more than 150,000 dinars, and every year, 300,000 of them fund loyalty to his party. Now what kind of party is this party? I don't know what that party is. I can accept that. In order for someone in the congregation to ask a question, I'm sorry, kid, you can barely put an end to it, little pay, we pay taxes, we pay little contributions, where you get this kind of money. You can't ask that question. Why? You know who the boss is. The gauze is the one in Brussels who controls it all. Today, you have turned all the services that serve and assist in the work of committees and committees into mere administrators who are tasked with making records, putting together agendas, inviting MPs and representatives of the Government, and if by any chance any of them indicate that there may be something wrong with the law, they would probably get, please excuse you, if such a professional service is and if it should play the Brussels administration in Belgrade, and why not tell all EU Member States have big problems with the Brussels administration, which no one can control, which is multiplying, invents certain things. If you think of the professional service of the National Assembly that you can make a clone of the Brussels administration, it will not allow you to do so. We won't let you. All the irrationalities, what's going on in the National Assembly, all the missed investments, the missed jobs, the failed sector for international relations, to which they account? You hired your party staff, which English, French, German and some other language, you put them in that big hall, they kill themselves from boredom, they have nothing to do. They're supposed to chase around the site to find out what's written there to rip up some word and say they're going to do a doctrine, so a day here, one that has a vision of something that doesn't exist. So we stamp it every step of the way. At every step of the way, we stamp it. After all, what are the two buildings doing to the National Assembly? Why did you move the National Assembly into this building here? When that building there fully met the needs of the National Assembly. There were offices, there was joke, there was everything. Now the service has to move, cross a few traffic lights, not to be trampled by, MPs have to move, everyone has to move here because someone's decided that he's very uncomfortable sitting in front of that little room, so somebody raises a voice from the pay phone, and the one in the front row doesn't want to hear some tones that aren't responsible for his ear. What did you want? You wanted a NATO pact. They won't be here. You renovated all this for September 1st, the summit of the unclassified. What if the non-classes don't come? You didn't paint for nothing. How much does this cost? Is work improving? Does the quality of work improve?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57043	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. This time is scheduled for the discussion of the SRS parliamentary group to be exhausted. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, we have two seemingly incompatible decisions ahead of us. One is the proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly's service, and another is the proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. First of all, we think it applies to the conditions of enforcement of criminal sanctions. At first glance they seem incompatible, but we have to remember one wise Prime Minister from the last century, who told another wise minister not to build schools, but to build a prison, because you and I will go to prison and we will no longer go to school. Let's not forget the wisdom in our tradition, it's good to remember at this point, and I think this commission is very important because of Serbia's future, and also because of the future of many political entities in this country, at least the people expect us to. So, joke aside, the National Assembly has a decision to organise the work of the National Assembly, and we have not put any more serious objections, because the National Assembly has one visible part of its work, this is the part that citizens can watch daily in the media, this is our public work, it is us 250 who represent the interests of Serbian citizens here in the best way that we can do, and which we also represent that invisible work that is contained in the organization of the work of the National Assembly. Therefore, the public works, the National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of constitutional and legislative authority. In order for me to say something only about this invisible work in the congregation, I must say what the visible work of the congregation is. It adopts and amends the Constitution, decides on changing the borders of the Republic of Serbia, calls for a Republic referendum, confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them, decides on war and peace and declares war and emergency. It oversees the work of the Security Service, adopts laws and other general acts from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, gives prior consent to the AP statutes, adopts a defence strategy, adopts a development plan and a spatial plan, adopts the budget and final account of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the government, gives amnesty to criminal acts. Therefore, the Assembly also has its original functions, it elects the Government and elects the Constitutional Court judges and decides on their resolution and termination of the mandate, elects the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Presidents of the Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutors and decides on the termination of their functions, elects the Judges and Deputy Prosecutors in accordance with the Constitution and the Law, elects and relieves the Governors of the NBS and the Board of Governors, elects and solves the Guardian of Citizens, elects and relieves other officials of a certain law. In the exercise of its control function, the National Assembly shall supervise the work of the Government and decide on the termination of the mandate of the Government and ministers, the Security Service, the governors of the NBS, the Citizens' and other bodies in accordance with the law and in the exercise of their representative functions, the National Assembly, or MPs, shall consider the presentations and proposals of citizens, shall hold meetings with citizens in the National Assembly and in the offices of the National Assembly or of the seats and outside the seat of the National Assembly. This is what the citizens have chosen us for, and in order for all of this to be representative, and I claim that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is one of the most representative congregations, or parliaments in Europe, surely, it is responsiblely claimed, that we are served by a large group, a large army of modestly paid people who are committed to doing their job, and this decision applies, above all, to the different organisation of their jobs. What we expect, it is certainly to be responsible done and we will follow how much more efficient these services will be, because we all know what calls for administration, for every administration, how much of a brake it can be if it's slow and trom. As MPs, in order for us to be more efficient and useful to our citizens, it is important for us to be effective in these very services. As for these other decisions on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, i.e. on the education of the commission, the sad fact is that our prison facilities are almost double-filled compared to how much their accommodation capacity really is. The sad thing is that Nusic, in time in the comedy "Navi" comedy, showed that nothing has changed in Serbia except a person, and that comedy remains the same, and I have only one parliamentary issue in the framework of this issue for the competent ministry, I think that the police ministry is in charge – what about building a prison in Medvedja, so we have the need for more prisons, where construction was to begin this year, where a location and contract with land owners was concluded on May 5th 2011, the payment was to be made within eight days, to the day of today, and the funds for the rebuilding and development of the country, listen to irony, and the prisons belong to buildings that are being renovated which the country is developing, so the funds have been transferred. This is what the citizens of Bears ask, and they expect to get some important citizens at least this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57045	Thank you. There are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, so I ask if they want the word of the president, or representative parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. We are moving on to a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint single search on the proposals of these decisions, and before the search is opened, I remind you that according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the MPs of the Parliamentary Group, including the Parliament Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the URS parliamentary group (G17 plus-Together for Shumadi) – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Wojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 24 minutes; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority group of deputies – eight minutes and 24 seconds; the PUPS parliamentary group – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak each and every five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with the order of the Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I am also informing you that the SRS parliamentary group has authorised it to represent the MP of the People's Parliament, Ms. Verica Radeta. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic of Election Commission, Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (17.27 hours ). Do representatives of MPs Nenad Milic, deputy president of the LDP parliamentary group and Nada Kolundžija, president of the ZES parliamentary group, want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the MP, Ms Verica Radeta, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57046	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if Members of the regime in this assembly had respected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then these points of the agenda, as it had been in previous meetings, had passed without any debate, would simply have been accepted by the vote only by the proposals of the parliamentary groups. But for three years, we have to use and use every opportunity just this point of the agenda and this kind of agenda to draw attention to both the assembly majority and the public, to all Serbian citizens that for more than three years the SRS, our parliamentary group, has been significantly damaged in this Parliament. We were damaged by the number of MPs, because we were kidnapped by mandates both DS and Boris Tadic gave them to Tomislav Nikolic and some advanced party, who did not participate at all in the elections, which did not exist at all at the time when the elections were held. In parallel with this and analoguely, the SRS has been damaged in all working bodies of the Assembly, in all delegations, in all committees, in the RIK and therefore we will talk about it. We, of course, do not dispute that MP groups such as these in these three proposals we are talking about today, that Nenad Milic sign a proposal, a request, on behalf of the LDP, that they resolve in RIK Zarko Bozunovic and Sava Pilipovic, to name instead Dragan Ninkovic and Mark Palamerevic. Of course, it's absolutely their right, and it doesn't occur to us that this LDP right is in any way a threat to us, to put any objection to this proposal. Of course, here, when it comes to RIK, this is just one transitional period, you see, you and these resistors have announced that, instead of RIK, you're going to make some so-called. An independent Central Election Commission, then with these amendments to the law on the election of MPs with no supervisory board, with such a new election commission, may God help us. What will be the election results, it will no longer be the will of the citizens, it will be the will of the tycoon, or it will be a competition with the money. Whoever has more money will be able to buy more MPs, he will also be able to buy members of the so-called Parliament. Independent election committees, there will be no more control. You will not accept the fact, and by 2000, you have also sworn that there is no greater democracy than when representatives of all parties control the election cycle from the beginning to the end. There is no possibility of political parties agreeing in any way. Everyone is trying to preserve the interests of their political parties, and thus to preserve the election result. Of course, we'll talk more about it when it comes to the agenda. We hope, frankly, that it will not be soon, but you, when you get a warrant from the EU, when they tell you – must be, there is no longer on your side of the thinking. It's just that it's got to get better at some act, however, we wouldn't be here alone, you're talking -- it's not good, how harmful it is, how inapplicable it is, but you're going to vote, ordered by File, ordered by the EU, and really poor this people when the government plays by the music of the EU, and more and more people feel it on their own. Also, when it comes to these two decisions, Nada Kolundžija has signed a draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly, and in the Committee on Culture to resolve Vesna Marjanovic, for gender equality, too, and for her to choose Ljiljana Lučić in both committees, and that is certainly not a question for us. The Democratic Party, i.e. this ZES, seems to know which of the MPs is best suited to cover a particular portfolio. We won't talk, of course, about whether they're good solutions or not. That's absolutely their thing. We also have a decision signed by Hope Kolundji, a decision to amend the Decision on the election of deputy members of the National Assembly board. We have here to resolve the duties of deputy member Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, Adversaries of Poverty Reduction. Ljiljana Lucic is elected instead. Here, of course, are not controversial names, but the dispute is the fact of the deputy board member. We must take this opportunity to remind ourselves of something completely abnormal, that through these deputy members, you have completely pushed the opposition out of working on committees, and you swear that in accordance with your European standards, which you follow, we thank God not, and we will never, in accordance with that so-called. European standards you want the most important part of parliamentary life to take place on committees and you're just getting comfortable, you, members of the ruling majority, deputy members, and you don't need anyone else. You work behind closed doors, you don't let the media in, you work without a quorum. The most recent case is the Administrative Committee, which was said to be held on Monday – were members of the SRS there. The board started working without a quorum. The board president, Mr. Konstantinovic, asked media representatives to come out, not to be in the O.R. We are now asking – what is the state secret discussed by the Administrative Committee that the media cannot know what it is? It's really a scandal. Dragan Todorovic was there, opened the door and urged the media to come in. Of course, to the reviling of the ruling majority MPs. The media were able to see, some of them recorded, that there was no quorum and that the board of directors began working without a quorum. Unfortunately, it wasn't published. But here we are now informing the public that that was the case. At that session of the Administrative Committee, a working body, a working group, as it would already be called, was to be formed, which would consider one of your future decisions that you are planning to make again the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the immunity of the MPs. You obviously did it again without opposition parties, with some back-up board of administration. A man really wonders why you need committees in the first place? Why do you need working bodies? You don't need people's messengers to be present either, as there are, how many, six, seven MPs from the ruling majority. You only need the day to vote, and usually on the same day that you are scheduled to vote, when 126 is scheduled for the same day, the agenda is established for a next session, so as is planned now, next week, you will adopt the agenda on Tuesday and then we will be working on that agenda for a week, so that the poor MPs of the ruling majority will not be tortured twice that 126 of them must come to the Serbian Parliament within a week. Bruca and shame. Of course you are, Srdjan Milivojevic. This does not apply to you because you are present and when the quorum is not determined and that is a fact. But, as Krasic would say, you are the gray eminence of Boris Tadic, so I suppose you must. So this case with the Administrative Board of Monday is not a unique case. I recall, again for the public, I was on behalf of the SRS a member of the Commission for the Construction of Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I happened to find out that this commission, this task force, had a meeting nobody invited me to. And get a nice notice, the president of the assembly has been informed that the SRS wants to participate and that on behalf of the SRS, or our parliamentary group, that I will be in the commission. When I asked a question in public here, then I was informed that there was this commission, this task force, but there was only one thing they had agreed on, so now, since the next meeting, they're willing to have the courage to call me as well. Then of course I understood what the problem was. When I said that it was unacceptable for the SRS to pass EU law in the National Assembly, then ZES representatives said it was true but it is not good to talk about it publicly because this is why the EU's popularity among Serbian citizens falls. This is true. And then, at that session, there was no media. That's when I got out of that session and informed the media about it. So the question is, why do you make certain laws, why do you bring the Rules of Procedure? After all, why did you bring the Constitution when you broke it, and we brought it together, at every turn? A little bit at a time, so there's an unconstitutional law here. It is indeed something that is absolutely questioning the existence of a legal system in the state of Serbia. As a lawyer, I'm saying we don't even have a legal system. If you are voting for the laws that a freshman in law school sees are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then indeed – where do we get the legal system? Who's protecting our constitutional system? The Constitutional Court, which openly puts itself as guardians of the regime? Nobody hides that anymore. But when it comes to these decisions that I have spoken of and which we have in principle no objections, here is a question for the president of parliament -- why do we not have a draft decision signed by Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group? It is a decision where we asked that members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be relieved of their duties in the Committee on International Relations, Jovan Damjanovic, and the Committee on Poverty Reduction, and that Dragan Stevanovic and the Committee on Poverty Reduction, in place of him, be elected to the Committee on International Relations. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is this motion not put on the agenda? At the last session of the Assembly, and that is why only now we went with this proposal, on a proposal from the LDP, fully in accordance with the law, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was replaced by Mrs Vesna Pesic from a committee because she was an independent MP, she left the LDP parliamentary group and asked that the LDP be elected by Marija Bulgarianic or someone else from the LDP in committees where Ms Vesna Pesic was instead. Of course, it is consistent with all the positive acts. But we ask you, why can't the SRS do it? Is it because Jovan Damjanovic was 126 at the last vote? When you passed the law with 108 votes, Jovan Damjanovic was 126 in the O.R.? Is that why the SRS can't appoint and propose to the committees members of the SRS and the parliamentary group of the SRS? How long are you going to behave like that? How long will you have different arches? The LDP can, because they help you vote so-called. European laws, the SRS cannot because we are loud and clear to you – you are on the wrong path, you are on the wrong track, the pest government, the dictatorial regime of Boris Tadic, cannot allow Serbia into the EU, Serbia must not enter NATO. It bothers you that we speak completely of it this way. Indeed, this is inadmissible what you are doing from the ruling majority, what it does, first of all, the President of Parliament, and then, of course, the others. Where are the Administrative Board, where is the Committee of Justice and Administration, where are the committees that advocate the application of the regulations here, the application of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the law? All of you step on it and break it. Such anarchy and such despoties in Serbia have not been since Serbia, believe me. All this stuff you're doing right now, and these laws that you've changed against the constitution, they're only in favour of the consolidation of Boris Tadic's dictatorship. Because the characteristic of a dictator is that they rule through called institutions. He's really doing it great. So, we as a parliamentary group will not say anything about colleagues who are proposed on these committees, nor about the gentlemen proposed by the LDP to the Republic Election Commission, because the Serbian Radical Party represents the position that the mandates belong to the party, that the party has mandates, that the party can propose members of the board, that the party can propose a resolution of the members of the board, that the party can propose and resolve members of the Republic Election Commission and absolutely say - it is okay that in these three cases LDP and in two cases the Democratic Party. But we have no answer to the question – why is the Serbian Radical Party's decision not on the agenda? So, what's going on with the emergency session has nothing to do with it. Since it's working, it doesn't matter. The 45th is clear, and a member who regulates an emergency session says the Rules of Procedure are also applied for an extraordinary session, unless certain things are particularly regulated regarding a specific emergency session. I'm saying this in advance because I see that you're making a deal, probably to answer in this direction, but right now, let me tell you that you're wrong, that we've had a great look at the Rules of Procedure. After all, we know him well, and no matter what time we get notices about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it is not because of the violations of the Rules of Procedure, but because of what we say, which you do not want to hear, not that you hear, but that you do not want to hear Serbian citizens. So, the Serbian Radical Party will use every opportunity and every time these and such proposals, which I said at the beginning, in happy times without debate, we will use every opportunity to remind both the parliamentary majority and Boris Tadic and, above all, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the Serbian Radical Party, as the strongest opposition party in Serbia, is damaged by the will of Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic, are thus damaged citizens of the Republic of Serbia, voters who expressed their will that the Serbian Radical Party has 78 mandates. We have received part of the mandate, and I repeat, in all committees, in all working bodies, in all permanent delegations, the Serbian Radical Party has an disproportionate number compared to all other parties represented by the relative number of mandates won in the last elections. It is the treading of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a job that Tadic and Nikolic did long ago in 2008, even before, with the goal of making Serbia the dirtiest jobs that even Tadic dares to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57047	You're welcome, thank you. I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted only by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group and, in order to inform only, I will read the order of the MPs. First they will receive the word Mr. Momir Markovic, then the MP, Mr. Sreto Peric, then the MP, Mr. Mirko Munjic, and finally, of course, Mr. Zoran Krasic. Mr. Markovic, here's your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and several MPs from the ruling coalition, I think they have already filled a double-digit number, when these proposals come from the ruling coalition, that individual board members are changing to other members, this suggests something that has already become so visible to us MPs, I suppose, and to the citizens of Serbia. When someone from the ruling furniture somewhere in some function screws up or as you say, not to give certain results, the system of chess rhode moves to another place, of course, bite. I'm not going to talk about this now that one minister, who we had a chance to see here today, went from place to place and took severance, at least once took severance and then chess moves as a jumper, I don't know what the name of that chess piece is, but it doesn't matter. So, at least once he took severance. The second case recently got his epilogue. Mr. Dragan Djilas, mayor of Belgrade, is prone to a high-ranking shift, Mrs. Radmila Hrustanovic, since she was an assistant to the "bullozer of the revolution", suffered severe mental pain over the shift, so that the ruling coalition would repay her as ambassador to Bratislava. Since it wasn't enough for the whole family to get hurt by the whole family...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57049	I'm sorry, I'm trying to find those names in the list of proposed members and deputies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57050	This, Mr. Novakovic, is an introduction to get these names.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57051	It's very wide-ranging.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57052	It's all intro, it's all intro, it's all in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57053	I understand, but get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57054	Since the whole family suffered mentally, then, to please Sister-in-law Ana Hrustanovic has been deployed to the post of ambassador to Rome. And pull the sieve and the sheep on the count, but it looks like the people got hurt, looks like the shepherd wolf ate it. How many cases are these? Remember how many MPs from your group have gone to the ministerial assistant's office, and others have come and then we find that those others in those places or those here at the post of MPs have done something that was not in line with your intensities on the European path. I'm not going to say that Mrs. Lucic has messed up where she's been or that Mrs. Vesna Marjanovic has messed up at the MP's place, but it all smells like it. As many cases as these are, we can determine very quickly, but there remains something that is very symptomatic. Where's the SRS proposal for a member's replacement? The SRS has a seat on two committees. The man has left, is an independent MP, just as Mrs Radeta said, as Mrs Vesna Pesic is an independent MP and the LDP has been given the right to replace her. The SRS seems to have no right to its seats on the boards. We are interested in the background, the essence and fate of why board seats do not return to the SRS which they belong to and by the number of MPs and by proportion. You gentlemen stole mandates from the ruling coalition, and now seats on the SRS committees. They're not here, they're just puppets and you and those from Brussels whose role you are. It's your fault and your responsibility. What does it mean – we have a proposal to change the members of the RIK? That reminds me to ask what the Central Election Commission means? Who's gonna pick her? What's the composition? The RIK so far has been composed of members of parliamentary parties and they have both responded to the people and the Assembly and their political party. Who's this gonna suit? Only the ruling party or the ruling coalition. Another question that Mrs Radeta also mentioned – why the deputy board members and commissions only from the ruling coalition? What key is that? By what criteria did you divide these places? There were stories of no quorum because the opposition wouldn't give a quorum. That's not true. How many times have we been here, outside the door, your board members aren't sitting down? Why don't you discipline your members? When you decided to choose both deputies and put it into the Law on the National Assembly, then why is it not proportionately divided? Well, it's not the 126 key the only key that can open all the doors. You can't decide with that. Gentlemen, do as you please, but you probably won't be able to do as long as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57055	Thank you. The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I cannot imagine any MP who is willing to turn parliament into a decision-making factory, general acts, laws or anything that the National Assembly is competent to make. Indeed, one day an objective and justifiable question will be asked by Serbian citizens whether it is worth going to the polls, because electoral will is often falsified, stolen and does not reflect the real state of will of the Serbian citizens when they go to the elections. Now we have three points of the agenda. One point is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members on a proposal from the LDP, where they propose to replace Zarko Bogdanovic, member of RIK and Savo Pilipović, deputy member of RIK, with new proposals, for RIK member Dragan Nikolic and deputy member Marko Palamarevic. Their assessment and explanation of this proposal is that it is the duty of a member, a deputy member to perform more efficiently newly proposed persons. We don't want to get into that personally, that's what the MP's group is about to propose. The Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deal with problems or elaborate committees of the National Assembly, or say there are working bodies. Working bodies can be permanent and occasional. The new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia foresees 19 Assembly committees and one special assembly committee, which is the child's rights committee. It forms a little bit differently, and these others have equal numbers of members. There are temporary working bodies, which are committees and committees that the Assembly can form from case to case, in ad hoc situations. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly dedicated 42 members of a total of 290 and some of the work of congregation committees. I will quote just one piece of Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and then you will see that what we are saying about this item of the agenda makes perfect sense. "At the proposal of the National Assembly parliamentary group, the National Assembly shall decide on the termination of the duties of a member or deputy member of the committee elected from the order of members of the parliamentary group and the selection of a new member or alternate member of the committee. "Is it necessary to anticipate and introduce an institute of deputy members of the Assembly committee have already spoken to my colleagues and I would not repeat that, of course, we opposed it. We don't think that's right, but the congregation's majority has given support to this Rules of Procedure, and that's how it is. Once again, it means that members of the committee are resolved and elected on a proposal from the parliamentary groups. Since we are also discussing the proposal for a decision to resolve and appoint members of the RIK, it has been valid, also valid for all parliamentary groups, except for the SRS parliamentary group. That is why we are always taking the opportunity to comment on these points of the agenda, in order to work out a conscience with some MPs who should have acted the way they should have done it at the time of stealing the mandate of the SRS. Here, I read Article 45 of Section 1. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly from which it was the duty and obligation of each Members of Parliament to accept, at the request of the SRS, this proposal which we have proposed for today's session. When it comes to the selection of RIK members, that is what one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Komic, would say, good practice for all parliamentary parties to be represented in RIK, and after the adoption of the list and those who were not at the time of the elections were parliamentary parties, they get the right to an extended RIK member, and hence, when municipal election commissions are formed, when there are election committees. It's a nice rule, a nice positive practice. What you are announcing and proposing, the introduction of a Central Election Commission, we believe that this will not be a proper reflection of the situation, that this is not the best solution, but as long as you have 126 we won't be able to change the situation much much, it's only under the big question of the length of that deadline from your 126. In addition to this proposal by the LDP, concerning the members of the RIK, the ZES parliamentary group has also proposed a decision to amend members of the National Assembly's board, where it is proposed to appoint Radoslav Milovanovic in the Committee on Poverty Reduction, instead of Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, and to the Committee on Poverty Reduction instead of Ljiljana Lučić, as deputy member of Radoslav Milovanovic. Also, again in line with our good practice and respect for parliamentary rules, the SRS assumes and believes that the ZES list is looking for the best solutions and is trying to make a proposal that it believes will rightly be able to respond to tasks for the political party. Another draft decision came from the ZES parliamentary group – the proposal for a decision to elect members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Committee on Culture and Information is resolved by Vesna Marjanovic, probably because of going to another duty and in the Committee on Gender Equality Vesna Marjanovic is being resolved, and Ljiljana Lučić is also named in the Committee on Gender Equality. This is in line with the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in order. We advocate that these rules apply before and after this, but there are several situations where you have failed to pay attention to it and do not respect at all the positive legal regulations that are part of our legal system. There are several situations that really deserve attention, when it comes to the work of these committees, certainly the Administrative Committee, which two days ago had its session and began its work before it had enough members, in fact, the session could not begin, the Administrative Board, it is difficult to predict and say that it was one of the most important, important committees of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it is important and important, especially when it is known what is in its jurisdiction, so we had a chance when we spoke earlier about the organisation of expert services of the National Assembly, that the Administrative Board had the most important role in proposing that decision, and that the Rules of Procedure, which is the Secretary-General, would have made, in connection with the organisation of the Professional Service of the National Assembly, the Consensus for that to do so. You can see only from a few examples of how important it is, and not to say that it was the Administrative Board who was very often obliged to make a decision on the termination of the mandate on the basis of the resignation, and that later the National Assembly is verifying it, and it begins with work without sufficient number, or without a quorum. In view of the importance of this new call, this committee will also have an extended importance, it will be the Committee on Administrative Budgetary Affairs and the mandated immunity issues, and there are even greater obligations and greater responsibilities for the committee. The chair of that committee dares to start work, i.e. before asking representatives of public information funds to leave the session and then to start working without enough members. That suggests one insecure, one scandal that cannot be seen and avoided. They also seem to be doing so in local self-government congregations. Not to avoid it, but to avoid it. The assumption is, there may sometimes be a lack of professional people out there who might be able to draw attention to things that are not in accordance with the law and the Constitution, but something like that certainly didn't happen. The Defence and Security Committee should just remember that the former president, SRS MP Dragan Todorovic, was just the first to ask for the privatisation of Luke Belgrade, then the privatisation of "Evening News". Because of his insistence on it, which was very important for both employees there and for all those living in Serbia, and wants to respect positive regulations, no less, than a request for his shift has been launched, precisely because of the attempt and desire to respect the legal system, and that poor privatisation is not repeated, or that such privatisation contract should be put out of effect. We had a situation to launch a request for the removal of Dragan Todorovic from the post of chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. At the beginning of the constitution, the Committee on Agriculture, which is under some agreement, convened by the National Assembly, was to belong to a member of the SRS. It is also an important committee, especially for what has recently appeared to me to be affirmatives in Serbia, what comes from the Ministry of Agriculture, that agriculture is one segment and one part where the budget surplus has been achieved. That board didn't sit. Maybe he only sat down once or twice in 2011. It is a committee that should be held at any sowing or harvest, especially when it comes to Serbia, when all is uncertain, before it is ambushed. We had a situation that, in six months, that committee would have sat down maybe twice, and that, when a member of the board, MP Milorad Krstin demanded, after the roadblock in Vojvodina, that this committee should meet, to bring some of its views, and recently, perhaps two days ago, at the request of the chairman of the Committee on Industry, Mr Milorad Buha, who is a member of the SRS and chairman of the Committee on Industry. The committee then demanded, and during this time period, it would have to be much more frequent, and perhaps even outside Parliament's seat to ambush, to hold a session in the area of cities affected by the storm, to try to correct the injustice where a large number of citizens who have registered agricultural households and cannot restore it, because from February to May of the current year fail to settle their commitments for the previous year, and it is also related to pension insurance. Then they lose their right to both subsidies and premiums. A large number of those who have possessions below five, six, seven hectares of cost-effectiveness, when it comes to these premiums, i.e. subsidies that are received, simply, just after receiving a premium, arrives to the farmer to meet the obligation to register the agricultural household. This committee would have to discuss, it would have to draw certain conclusions and opinions. It's just that any committee can look for an analysis of the ministry's work. I don't think these boards have played that role lately, and they just don't have to act like one, they shouldn't do that. Lately, we have a situation that the Ministry of Agriculture has often adopted some regulations that later create a problem for both manufacturers and buyers. Now we have a situation that's so-called. "red gold," as they often like to call it. It seems to me that lately there's been some big concern for those who are dealing with the production of raspberries. It is forbidden for those who buy this agricultural product, and they have it registered as an activity, they are forbidden to come to other areas. In that regard, they are subject to stricter conditions, not those applicable to those agricultural producers engaged in the buying-in, which are from that area. I don't think that should be allowed. Simply, the agricultural producer should place its products in that place, that is, the buyer who can offer the best price, if the state has not already kept an account. We also have a recent situation, though, on the day that the city of Arilje hit, that representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture went to negotiate, and at the moment when the raspberries began, to agree that a number of coolers were treated as public warehouses. Perhaps it was possible to go into the business in January of the month, to do it right and in a good way and to help agricultural producers. Surely, it can't be done the moment you start picking that fruit. These are the things why we say that the work of the board is very important and that this request from the SRS should also be made and related to the changes of its members of the board, that is to say, if it is to leave the parliamentary group, because Article 45. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that only the parliamentary group is competent to apply for a shift, and the Assembly makes a decision to amend the requirements, i.e. to accept the parliamentary group's decision. All these are the problems that were created at the moment when it was aimed at breaking one strong and strongest opposition parliamentary groups such as the SRS, to create a new political party, or part of the MPs who should not have the status to help the regime of Boris Tadic stay, it looks like a full term at the head, as Bogoljub Karic, at one point in the presidential elections, played a role to distract the president of the assembly majority in the presidential elections, so it is now that the term of office of Boris Tadic's regime, i.e. the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, lasts four years. And the politics of Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic both in the people and in this parliament must be condemned to failure. It is something that has already been seen and sure as hell does not benefit the citizens of Serbia. There was only one little trick and help Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57057	Thank you. The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57058	We are discussing points 14, 15 and 16 of the proposed agenda. For the public, these are: The proposal for a decision to resolve the appointment of members and deputies of RIK members, the Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the 16th point is the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Point 15 proposes the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly for the Reduction of Poverty. Point 16 requires an amendment to the decision on the selection of deputy members of the National Assembly Committee. I'm going to pay a little more attention to this poverty reduction committee. As far as the human resources you have proposed as the majority of the council relating to this committee are concerned, I would not enter the names themselves, that is, those human resources. It's normal that, as you know, it's always the position of the SRS not to enter your personnel solutions. Simply, the one you think you should suggest, we don't mind. The release of members of the SRS from the board in a quiet and perfiduous release of members of the SRS has been spoken of by my colleagues and I would not like to repeat myself, but I will say something about the poverty reduction committee itself, the area of the work of this committee and what members and deputies of the poverty reduction committee have done so far, what they could do and what is the situation in this area. As you know the area of the work of this committee, so to reduce poverty, i.e. working relations, then relations from employment, strike rights and trade union organization, then a social protection system, a pension and disability insurance system, social security and protection of military insurance, protection of fighters, military people with disabilities, civilian disabilities and war victims, members of their families and family members of the military service personnel. As can be seen from this, it is indeed a large and vast part of the Committee's action to reduce poverty. What this committee has done during its term of office, i.e. the term of office of the National Assembly, or more specifically if you want how much this committee could affect the social, or overall position of all and especially social categories in the Republic of Serbia. That's one question you can really talk about. The question is, what is the social map in Serbia, and in light of the role of this committee? I can tell you that according to your official data that can always be taken, about 200,000 people receive social aid. What does that mean? These people live on the edge of existence. They live in conditions that are unworthy of man, and for these very reasons they are receiving this church, this social aid. They don't have enough for drugs, food, clothes, shoes, heating, and about meeting some other needs, the need for simply decent people, such as rest needs, recreation, flying costs, wintering, etc., not to mention. This category of the population has long forgotten it, as well as many other categories of population in Serbia under your authority. Furthermore, according to your data, 40,000 people are fed in folk cuisines. How many people do you think would really need to eat in the soup kitchens if there was a possibility? Is this the right number? Of course not. Furthermore, it has been officially published by the Ministry of Social Protection that in 130 municipalities in Serbia there is a negative natural growth. Are you aware of how alarming this is? Are you aware of what this means for the state of Serbia? Are you aware of the fact that in a certain number of years there will simply be an extinction of a nation? What are the committee's suggestions on these issues? What is the Committee on Poverty Reduction, since this is also one of the parts of this committee's affairs, what has he done so far on this matter? We all know where Serbia's greatest poverty is. The further south of Belgrade, the sadder. That was a long time ago and always was. But something has happened that has never happened in the state of Serbia before. That wasn't the case. In Belgrade, there is growing fear of this domino effect, of that migration to say poverty and to these areas. Fear of poverty, therefore, being passed on to the capital of Serbia. On this point, however, immediately some have appeared who wanted to deny this, but simply for reasons only to calm the citizens of Belgrade. I can say defense against poverty many are simply evil, vain, self-sufficient. I am talking about the work of the Committee on the Reduction of Poverty, about one of the work of the Committee on Poverty Reduction, and to remind you that the subject of point 15 is, among other things, the replacement of a member and deputy member of the Committee on Poverty. I hope you don't mind me saying this information that's really within the scope of this committee. I say that in the light of the question, Mr. Novakovic. Is this committee capable of carrying out the purpose it is intended under the Rules of Procedure? That's exactly why. Before this, I said that many who try to defend themselves against this poverty are wicked, vain, and self - centered. Look what he says, the one who finished marketing management on the Bologna Declaration, here's a quote. "The Marking Manager from Belgrade said that at first he was very shaken and worried about the story of poverty in the interior. Maybe two weeks ago, I read that there's a town called Majdanpek and there's some other cities out there, I don't remember, I've never heard of them before. I would understand that poverty may spread to other cities. One day he also reached Belgrade, but a colleague visited me a few days later, told me there was coffee 30 dinars, which made me very upset. So what if they were 20! I don't know where they got the idea to complain, so I'm paying for coffee 30 dinars, I'd be embarrassed to complain. Do they know that coffee in Belgrade is 140 dinars without talking about what funny money you can rent an apartment there?" That's what one says, which unfortunately, that marketing management of yours ended up in this famous Bologna Declaration. The rate of not employment, which is also one of the factors that this Committee on Poverty Reduction would have to treat much more. In Serbia, 20% is official, it would be interesting to know how unofficial it is. We are among the five worst in Europe. I'll remind you, Romania 7.3%, Turkey 9.8%, Bulgaria 10.2%, Greece 12.9%, Hungary 12.6%, Serbia 20%. Furthermore, one more segment should be treated by the Committee on Poverty Reduction. Serbia is gentlemen from the ruling majority, Europe's absolute record of inflation growth. This is official data from some countries: Croatia 1.1%), the Czech Republic 1.2%, Slovenia 2.1%, Estonia 2.7%, Greece 4.7%, Hungary 4.7%, Romania 6.1%, Turkey 8.6%, Serbia 10.3%. So here we are, the record guys. The average earnings that are in direct proportion to the social protection system, which is one of the tasks of this poverty reduction committee, and here is a truly devastating situation when Serbia is concerned with the countries of the environment. Slovenia has an average salary, to remind you of 935 euros, Croatia 725 euros, Montenegro 455 euros, BiH 395 euros, Serbia 3209, according to official indicators. So, all record to record, but of course in a negative sense. How does the Committee on the Prevention of Poverty affect huge unemployment? I'll remind you, nearly 800,000 people are unemployed in Serbia, that's also official data. We all know that, according to unofficial data, the unemployed are much more. Furthermore, do you know that over 200,000 children in Serbia are hungry? 200,000 children live above the limit of normal child development, is that the goal of your policy, is that what you promised the citizens in 2008. Far from those who work, who do as they do, 160,000 of them work but do not receive the salary, 120,000 receive the minimum per your official data, the minimum of which they can't really make ends meet. All these are the indicators that you are officially presenting, these are your official data, the indicators that directly tank this poverty reduction committee. Since the time of this assembly and this government is slowly leaking, truly citizens should have no doubt that they will be better off with you in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57059	Thank you. Mr. Krassic, here's your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57060	How many minutes? (President: You have 32 minutes. ) Mr. Novakovic, when it comes to these points of the agenda that are now being treated, because they have long titles, let us not waste this precious anti-European time, to go in order. What's in common with these three proposals? It is common for the parliamentary party to decide autonomously and propose. The principle has been in force since about December 1990, when a multi-party system was introduced in the Republic of Serbia. So, since the first multiparty elections, that principle has been true. He was then promoted, and this is how it can be described, respecting the electoral will of the citizens of the parliamentary group, or political parties in the National Assembly, in proportion to their strength in what citizens have decided, they have the right to an adequate number of seats in working bodies, committees of the National Assembly. This has never been brought into question in such a brutal way as since 2008, more specifically there in October 2008. I must remind you that there have been some outbursts before, especially when it comes to the Administrative Committee and the mandate, the Immunity Commission. A dramatic example of this deviation was in 1995, when some board members were assured by helicopter to come into this building to remove Vojislav Seselj's immunity to conduct a misdemeanor. This is recorded as the most dramatic example, but since October 2008 it has been overcome. It has been overcome because it has been said that the electoral will of citizens should not be respected. The first act of disrespect for the electoral will is the transmutation and composition of the government in July 2008. Something that's based on election results, but not on election platforms, but good. If one of the democratic principles is decided by the majority, it will be as most decide, okay. However, the Rules of Procedure and the basic postulates of parliamentaryism protect the minority, they do not promote the majority. Most people have their strength anyway. The power is reflected in what it can always revote, but also in the Rules of Procedure and all other general acts that constitute the basis of parliamentaryism require that they be respected precisely because of the minority. We saw just before, during this debate, that most who are inevitably and nominally leading this National Assembly act differently in identical situations. When it came to Mrs Vesna Pesic, the LDP after a brief procedure, was given the right to change her in some committee. When it comes to the SRS, that's out of the question. Now that someone doesn't think that, God forbid, Democrats hate us radicals, that can't happen, you know. I need to figure out what's behind this whole project. Of course, I can go this far, Mrs. Comic, so let me say what the background of this project is that this around the National Assembly and the Presidency building, the Belgrade City Assembly, is just yellow flowers. That's not what the Vranians have done with their aggression against Belgrade. Yellow flowers are a feature of the ruling party in Serbia and you see, it has to be yellow flowers. I hope I cheered you up for this color, but it's a fact. If you don't believe me, come out and look at all the yellow flowers, all yellow to yellow. It's not hepatitis D. Now let's explain it further. So the Rules of Procedure would have to be respected and if, according to the 78th term of office of the SRS, the corresponding percentage and the place on all committees, etc., it is respected. I have to say, until New Year's Eve, the ruling coalition broke, she wanted to do it, and then something happened around New Year's, and they said, "Well, it can't." The owner of the term of office became an MP, so long before the Venice Commission got caught up in that letter two months ago. It's moving on. Why is that? It's not about hate. Mrs. Comic doesn't hate me, I know it. It is not about hate, it is not about political hatred, but simply as of October 5th it has moved towards the EU and the EU says, all in Serbia who accept that Serbia must go towards the EU must be protected. We don't care what the election will was, what the election results are, etc. They must be protected. Why? Here is a promotional principle without an alternative. It's only one time and when it's one time it's not an alternative, it's an obligation. When you live in a society where there is only, as you say one alternative, it is essentially like a one-sided system, although it is not formally. You know, it's pretty much a form that's covering up the essence. Now let's start with this first decision, which is on the agenda – change of members and deputy members of the RIK by the LDP. Legally. For all the praises. An existing member and deputy have broken off, say LDP policy is a failure for Serbia, we cannot fight with that RIC barbecue for the legality of work. Then the LDP folded the tab and said, "We'll change you and change you." We had some who took the mandates and we say to change you, however, Slavica Djukic - Dejanovic does not. I don't think so. Whether Gordana Comic or Nada Kolundži spoke to her, I don't know, but I don't. Slavica Djukic makes his party here spare. If there's a problem with the SPS, she'll go straight to the Woodlander's. It's all pulling its roots out of the EU. The EU says you people didn't burn the Assembly for free. That fire should be a symbol. She is a symbol. It hasn't been solved yet who burned it, many things haven't been resolved, of course they'll never get rid of it. All fans involved must respond if they sing such a dear song in the stadium that irritates the President of the Republic. It's no problem to say it and to know the truth. We are coming to the point of whether these decisions, not specifically these two decisions concerning the committee, are not so specific about the Law on the National Assembly or the Rules of Procedure, but whether, in fact, the National Assembly fulfils its constitutional obligations. In a formal sense, yes. There are 126 who support the government, they are in the mood to accept what the government is proposing because it is their government. Of course, it used to be conscious and deliberate for participation, and sometimes it was conscious and deliberate for, let's contribute to someone, and now it's conscious and deliberate for consent. The majority MPs knowingly and deliberately agree to something, although they all know, because there are 250 MPs in this assembly, everyone knows, there is nothing from the EU, there is nothing from the NATO Pact. Who draws towards the EU and NATO pacts to fail. You've gone that way and there's no other alternative and you have to support it. In order to provide quality support, you legitimately have the right to change your boards. This is your legitimate right, we do not dispute it for you, but that is the only way we remind you of it for a certain time - and why do you not admit it to us? We're not asking for mercy, we're not asking you to hold onto this Rules of Procedure unreservedly, etc., we know there's nothing out of it. But that's why we explain to the citizens what power it is, to realize that when the road has no other alternative, and when the government tries to push through its regulations like this, its laws, etc., then it's no wonder that it's happening on the streets or in the souls of our citizens and that they recognize where the problem is. I've simply been trying for some time to increase those 80%, if possible, to 100%, so that people realize that fighting against the EU is the cause of all our misfortunes, not as politically as human disasters. I see they're doing a good job. Now we have not come to the situation that the National Assembly has been violated as an institution and it is dangerous. I must draw your attention that this is extremely dangerous. There are MPs here who were in the congregation years ago, some remember what it looked like in 2001, 2002, 2003, an empty hall, a half-empty hall is a bad signal. I remember in October 2003, Bozidar Djelic spoke in the assembly, his parents wouldn't listen to him. Why? It felt like it was over. We're talking about an acquittal, but you see, that situation that's in the National Assembly on the tide, it's also being repainted on committees. As MPs of the ruling coalition appear in the principle debate or in particular, they probably have nothing to add since the government's proposal is extremely good, the situation is similar on boards. There's no discussion there. Our committees are just like that formally ending, to do this job, as it would say, that a report would appear that the committee was considering in principle, in particular, and after these changes to the Rules of Procedure no longer matters, even this is no longer mandatory. But to make the situation even more significant, most of the boards, of course, have parties that form a coalition, which are in power. We had an operation to determine, select and deputy members. That operation only gave two effects. Since I am the chairman of the Finance Committee there, when Branka Ljiljak is away, then Gorica Gajevic comes, I am comfortable, Gorica comes, but when Aleksandra Jerkov can't come, then Radovan Radovic comes, I feel uncomfortable. Otherwise, as for the results of the vote, the participation in the debate and these things, forget it, there's nothing. Why would government deputies talk at board meetings? They don't need to. The question arises – why should opposition MPs make quorum? The quorum has lost importance in today's committee work. Everything's devalued, everything's unscathed. Do you remember a year ago, when Mr. Micunovic and a group of MPs raised his voice because of a journalist who wrote some text in which there is quite a lie, the MPs immediately received a pack, and even a domicile DS, Mr. Micunovic, must not do so. Journalists are free, they can do whatever they want with the National Assembly, they can whine MPs, it's not a problem, it's what they do. Who's behind this? You know who's standing, the one who creates Serbia's media scene, and he doesn't give it up, because he's finishing some task, and even the government can't stand up to it. Why? Because essential rule is far from the National Assembly and from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is located both in formal and informal circles. You see how you, the MPs of the government, are terrified when it comes to selecting members of an agency, some bodies, etc. The best example is the Anti-Corruption Agency. I don't know a man in the O.R. who would vote for Cedomir Chupic. She had to make sure most of it. There is a nice commercial – before using counseling with a pharmacist or a doctor, and it is quickly read as if Rodoljub Sabic reads it. Not to argue, everyone has the right to their own opinion, can explain, express facts etc., but this is the essence. Political life doesn't happen in the National Assembly. It happens sometimes in the hall of the National Assembly when a journalist asks you about something that is not at all the subject of today's session. You see, the topics of this agenda are no longer interesting for the media. The media are already working on new topics that will be interesting in ten days or will reach the assembly, and when they reach the assembly, no one cares what the National Assembly will say because there are analysts, NGOs, civil society, some commissions, some pigeon writers from Brussels who fly here, bring a message, etc. Why do I say that? This is a topic where we should talk about both democracy and parliamentaryism. No one argues that most have the legitimate right to vote what they believe should be voted on. No one has ever questioned you. You can't because of the potential fear of how to ensure most, that you don't respect the electoral will of the citizens. I'm saying right now, there's no problem with the SRS with these suggestions. We have never entered the personal solutions of parliamentary groups or political parties represented by the will of citizens in the National Assembly, but we will always remind you of what happened with the theft of the SRS mandate. We'll always remind you. For what? Because we've branded it for all time and it's come into the history of Serbia's parliamentaryism and the history of democratic processes that have been happening in the Republic of Serbia. That interest, to be in power at all costs, we respect, you have the right to do so, but you have no right to touch what is a minority. You have no right to do that, because when you touch that right, you touch the electoral will of the voters. We must respect all voters, and those who voted for the DS and those who voted for the SRS, and here we have a situation of discrimination, disrespect. The basic postulate is equal to the value of each election vote, regardless of whether it is an academic, whether it is a municipal official, its vote in the elections has the same value and therefore respects the election results and therefore respects the mandate, how much a party has won. That story about a free-thinking MP, etc., you know it's a hollow story, that I'm not talking now, since we know each other here. If every single one of us or you said what's in your soul, a little bit who could vote for some of the things that are voted here, but you agree to it, I have nothing against it. I don't want to get into those details. You also have a situation with these things that have been happening with our mandates. Your people, members of your party, from municipality to municipality, have approached this problem differently. Some have put their morals and laws ahead, so they have not accepted to enter the operation, and some have been eager to wait. I don't want to talk about names, I know I won't have any problems, but why should I talk about it? Democracy must be kept here, parliamentaryism must be nurtured here, voters must be respected here, the Constitution must be respected here, the law must be respected here, the parties that are in the National Assembly in particular must be respected. We can differ in a political attitude, but we can't differ in status. The status guarantees us the Constitution and that status has given us citizens in the elections. Remember, everything changes. I remember in 2004 when DS rocked, fell to the ground, entered with a smaller number of MPs into the National Assembly, and some idea emerged that when they reported that something was being said to apply the standard they applied until December 31st, 2003. We didn't accept that. Isn't that right, Mrs. Comic? That's right. We didn't accept that someone was making amends to you. That's what you end up with your coalition partners and don't tell the SRS. The SRS never had that dose or that rematchism. How could we make it up to you when we weren't even president of the assembly? Who took your word? SRS, no. So say no. What you had with Kostunica, after that, you had a cohabitation, so you settled down, but, you handle it. I love it when a debate goes down like this. Why am I telling you this? Let's guard the parliamentaryism of the people. Let's guard parliamentaryism. There are no civilised states unless there's a guaranteed multiparty system. There are no civilised states unless Parliamentarianism is respected. There are no civilised states unless the electoral will of citizens is respected. There is no development of society unless in this room we demonstrate every day the commitment to the Constitution, the law, the interests of our people and our country. If it's not in this building, if it's not in this session and in our sessions, please, then we have no right to call anyone, which is also not on the street, in the company, in the family, in the village and anywhere else. That's our problem. Because you see, thanks to the media, this situation is being reviewed and becoming a situation in society. Why am I telling you this? They were once very strong, big politicians who talked – no matter what the law interests me, I have most, political will. They're out of power. I almost had one. Imagine, he's referring to the law. So when it hits him personally, he says -- and where the law is, and where are my rights, and where is that court that needs to be objective, impartial and apply the Constitution and the law. You said, my friend, until a few years ago, you were in power, then you forgot there was a law, but all you could think about was having a majority, I could finish. You see how that changes. It is therefore important in the congregation to respect minority rights and minority status. That's why it's bad when you take the mandates. And what did you get by taking your term? Did the EU buy you anything? Have you achieved any greater stability, yet your laws pass by 126, 129, 131. You probably don't need to change that original coalition of yours and no one calls you for it, but don't touch the status and rights of the minority. Don't touch it. Turn that around. You know how ugly it's gonna be if your actual standards are imposed by someone next to apply to you? In 2003, I remember very well, one thing, let me say, violent behavior, in 2004, this same Bosko Ristic will not enter the session of the Justice Committee, let the authorities say quorum, so when they do the quorum Milan Markovic and I will enter. Today that principle is no longer valid. You saw the Management Board a few days ago. Now, Mrs. Comic, I need to draw your attention, because I think you can open that question in some place that you think is appropriate. You see, we in practice have a board, I must say, a big problem. First, members, deputies, quorum, etc. It's a chronic problem. We have another problem, which rarely comes from the government's representatives to the Committee's meetings. I can't generalize, don't get me wrong. Let's just say, with us on the Finance Committee, we haven't had a single minister in a long time to come. Representatives, or trustees of the government, are either assistants or state secretaries, or perhaps heads of some department, etc. That's one thing you need to solve. Then we have another problem. What's the other problem? The session is scheduled, no more session appointments a few days ahead, but on the day when the session of the National Assembly is installed half an hour, 15 minutes before the beginning, to banish it, to formally pass through the minutes that the session was held. When a quorum problem arises, then we have a situation that you should harass people from the ministry, the National Bank or some other institution that is the legislator or defends the law, then they come once, then the second time, then the third time, then the fourth time, so there's no quorum and then there's actually a need for the debate to end without determining the quorum. It's an actual state of affairs, simply, the National Assembly doesn't embarrass themselves with government representatives who come in neatly, trustees, I apologize, not representatives. Then the question is, what are we doing? Where does that lead? When the session is postponed, that's where the phones work, and then they skip someone, they don't call him. I've been telling you about what we've been doing for two and a half years. You have people from the opposition who won't even come. It's their legitimate right, I don't dispute it. You have some that come, that I don't talk about who they are, come in and in the drive of great reason start talking about everything, so turn the discussion off the subject, and then we can't have two sessions to get back to the right point of the agenda. For what? Because most of them have no attitude, so at first she tolerates it, so after seven days, they realize that she's pulling them by the nose, and the next time we finally managed to solve something, to get to the end of the agenda. That was the problem, how to get to the end of the agenda. I'm telling you all of this so you can understand how violated our institutions are, they've been violated. If here these institutions which are the basis and basis for the legitimacy and legality of all those who originate or who receive a post through the National Assembly, in the judiciary and elsewhere, if this is the situation with us, why do we wonder what the situation in the Government, the judiciary, the regulatory bodies, etc. Fulfillment of the Brussels requirements, the fact that those from Brussels who say they are a pact for the EU and NATO, to which our work and violation of the foundations of this building are proportional, which is democracy and parliamentaryism. That's when these problems come out, so I'd be sick of someone calling me out for three years if I'd stolen my mandate. But no, we live in a non-alternative society. The alternative is just Brussels. It's not an alternative, it's just a warrant. In order for something to be an alternative, it has to be either – or. If there's no alternative, you know, no democracy, no multiparty system. That's some stuff. That's why we use all these agenda points when some decision on a deputy member of a committee is offered to distract you, and I personally remind you, in October 2008, when you were so blatantly beginning to calculate yourself with the MPs of the SRS, that's when I drew your attention that when the small stone came out of your shoes it became a big rock. That's when I distracted you, you'll lose power in the next election, just for your term of office, remember, just for your term of office. You in local self-government, you know what are the adverse consequences of this policy – kidnapping of mandates. You didn't need it, and you had a stable one, but you had a small one, but they did have a stable majority. How did those Brussels guys fool you? They are the only ones who will be in power, only that it is specific to the EU and that it listens to and fulfils the orders unspeakably. You see for yourself, in all the parties that are in power you have internal chaos in your organization, due to regrouping, starting positions and open disagreements with some issues. That's your problem. I don't want to talk about it. But that problem is also the result of the wrong policy, and it's the state policy, because you're in a position to run state policy. Mr. Munjic only read you some of your statistics. These statistics, these are the results of your performance and your work. It's just that a man gets chilly when he reads those data. How do you think that can change? The European Union has no alternative. Do you know how much the EU cares about Serbia? Oh, she doesn't care. We are not at all the subject of their interest. What does the NATO Pact care about Serbia, aman people? They don't care about that at all. They finish, they press, they have a fifth column inside. All that changes overnight. Take care, if nothing else, that at least you don't violate democracy and parliamentaryism, because I don't know what can happen afterwards. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-29-0.u57061	It was used 31 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Zoran Krasic was the last registered speaker. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone who has not used their right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a joint and uniform search on: a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of RIK members, a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of deputy members of the National Assembly Committee. By completing a single search on these three agenda points for today, we are completing the work and continuing work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, by debate, or the time for the current topic, since, at the request and proposal of the SRS parliamentary group, a session with the current topic is scheduled, where the issues proposed by the parliamentary group with the representatives of the Government will be discussed. From 16.00 to 19.00 hours, since Thursday is the last Thursday of the month, the session will be dedicated to asking parliamentary questions to government representatives. We'll probably have a specific search on Friday, but we'll let you know tomorrow. It's a long week for various reasons, and that's why I thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00.
