ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63333	THE THIRD SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION OF THE 22nd November 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.05 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the quorum, please insert the cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that there are 126 of us, which means that we are in accordance with Article 88(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and it is foreseen that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session, that there is quorum, or that we can work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The National MP Mrs. Jelena Travar Miljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63335	I would like to ask a question to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, and regarding the request to repeal the decision to resolve the council of the local community "Novo Milosevic" on 26 October 2011, which was addressed to the Ministry on 1 November 2011, by the chairman of the local community council. I ask the Ministry to respond to the steps taken in the area of jurisdiction...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63336	Mrs. Miljevic, I'm sorry, but I'd like to ask the MPs to stay in the O.R. because we need to adopt the agenda. We're starting a new session. I'm really asking for a little more patience, so then, of course, you'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63337	I would ask the Ministry of Response to the steps taken from the ministry's jurisdiction in the matter of repealing the said decision. I would like to point out that on 9 September 2011, SO Novi Becej received a request from the so-called The initiative committee on the resolution of the local community's "New Milosevic" council and the organisation of early elections for members of the local community council. They are called for by the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the law mentioned defines that citizens can propose amendments to the Constitution, the laws and other regulations in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, that is, the Assembly of the Autonomous Province, the Municipality or the City, the call for a referendum on a specific issue, and submit other proposals in accordance with the Constitution. So the initiative that was put forward in September, I think it calls for the right law, because this law does not deal with the subject of choice. The national petition has abused citizens' right to participate in the decision-making process at local level. What I would like to point out is that this particular request has found its way to the Assembly of the Municipality, i.e. until the meeting of the Parliament of the Municipality of Novi Becej, which was held on 26 October 2011, with the support of the LDP, the SRS and DS, was voted even though a request was sent on 21 October for the rejection of such initiative and the president of the municipality and the head of the municipal administration. I would also point out that I don't mind trying out new coalitions at the local level, just between the LDP and the SRS, but it really bothers me when someone violently changes the election will of citizens. I ask the Ministry once again to take the necessary steps out of its jurisdiction to inform the competent authorities what to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63338	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63339	Dear People's MPs, a regulation on the application of an agreement on parent books has appeared in Serbia's Official Messenger today. I am sure that this regulation will have the opportunity to address Serbia's Constitutional Court, with the question of the legality and constitutionality of this regulation, but I will not talk about it. It is known in public that when her draft was in the government that a number of ministers were opposed to the adoption of this regulation and that it expressed opinions which therefore did not accept such a regulation for the application of the agreement on parent books. In that sense, I am asking a question or asking for an explanation and a notice from the Government, whether and when these opinions, negative opinions, on the draft of this regulation that has come into force today will be exposed to the public, whether the public will be familiar with its content. The DSS asked, as soon as we learned that the regulation was adopted to make the parliamentary club available to these opinions, however, it is very important that the public also face them and get the opportunity to simply analyse these opinions that are very interesting, given the fact that for the first time in the government on this issue, there has been a discussion and that disputes. This question is therefore neither procedurally nor technically nor tactically what is the issue of how the state is working on its most important state interest, so to preserve its sovereignty of its territorial integrity. When we look at this way, we'll see that a little bit by little the participants' books in this process have come down to two letters, that only the President of the Republic and the Head of the Negotiation Team or the Dialogue Team have work to do here. As far as we can see, even the government can't influence, i.e. Its resources, which are resolutely set for this kind of business, on this policy. It should be borne in mind that at the cabinet's meeting against such a draft regulation, internal affairs, foreign policy, the judiciary and the state administration. So these aren't the resources that we can overlook or think they're not in charge. It is precisely their jurisdiction that is greatest and it is no wonder that they have rebelled against such a single violation of legality and constitutionality. The state has to react to that, given the fact that the whole thing is more or less left to the negotiator. He had a chance to address the KIM Assembly Committee last Friday and we saw how it went. So, all who spoke, whether in the government or the opposition, whether they were from Kosovo or the rest of Serbia, were against those agreements, and one regulation was given to make the poor of those agreements, concerning the parent books, to be implemented. It is expected that, as early as this week, one of the government's telephone sessions will also accept a regulation on the application of those other agreements that were also made in secret and on which the public did not know anything until the other day. It's the way we've been up against the government and state for three years on KIM, but this time it's really been a drop that's spilled a glass. We see that one man negotiates what he wants, concludes what he wants, sees that the form of these conclusions is in the so-called agreed conclusions, which is no binding or legal act, and we see that the government is making regulations to the so-called agreed conclusions and that it brings those regulations to phone sessions. The assembly has been disabled from this process. The government mostly decides without the appropriate resolution ministers, and we come to situations where we give part of the territory to believe because it will or so is a predetermined man who negotiates. I mentioned that board meeting. He remained in the absolute minority, but said the fact will not affect the continuation of the negotiations. Today, we saw that a quick-track conversation about the recognition of a diploma had ended. All this takes up to half an hour, and Serbia is slowly and certainly losing Kosovo, among other things, because of this irresponsible relationship between the government and all the authorities. Parliament must return to the game and therefore we demand that the government deliver these opinions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63340	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on September 2nd, nearly three months ago, the first of these agreements was reached in those negotiations under the auspices of Brussels. These were agreements relating to the area of cadastrian books and customs stamps. Meanwhile, you know for yourself, there have been two other agreements, and these are agreements in the area of the parent book and agreement in the area of freedom of movement. As far as we can tell, another agreement has been reached today regarding university diplomas. Members of the KiM Committee received the so-called agreements and if these are informal documents, as they say, and there are several problems. The first problem is that even these agreements don't write everything. Therefore, each agreement states that the EU is taking over the provision of a political guarantee for those parts of the agreement which, because of the views of either party, could not be entered into the text. At the same time, a report submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly said that more during the beginning of the application of the arrangement in the area of the customs stamp, there was a highly biased interpretation of the arrangement in favour of Pristina and by the EU. So, the big problem is that no one, not even the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, knows everything signed, but it is totally unacceptable that even the MPs in the National Assembly do not know anything about the agreements reached, although the government is obliged by the previous declaration to report every three months to the Assembly on the course of the negotiations. Reports on the course of negotiations also include a debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There has been no debate today. The negotiations ended on September 27th and were interrupted by the Serbian side. It was then said there will be no further negotiations until the situation at the administrative crossings is resolved. However, although the situation at the administrative crossings has not changed, the government of the Republic of Serbia has changed, the position of the negotiating team has changed. Negotiations continued yesterday. Under these agreements, which have been adopted so far, the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia is brutally trampled, a large number of laws are violated, and it is clear that these agreements are the negotiating team and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was behind these agreements, openly and openly recognise the independence of the KIM, or recognise that Shiptar quasi state. I'm going to say more for the citizens than for you, what you've accepted. A seal that the government of the Republic of Serbia has disputed over the past three years has been accepted in the customs stamp area. So nothing's changed. A seal that wasn't good now is suddenly good. In the field of cadastar books, you have accepted that complete cadastrian books, scanned originals be forwarded to the Shiptar side and you have pledged to work to establish a fully reliable cataster in Kosovo. It is similar with the parent books, where you will also give complete parent books and set up a Kosovo cadastre. As regards the jurisdiction of the institutions of the Cypriots, not any temporary institutions of self-government, but institutions formed under the constitution of the so-called Constitution. Kosovo and Kosovo law, you have accepted the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Kosovo. Borislav Stefanovic, on several occasions, denied it, and if everyone can read in the agreement that it says so. What do you agree on in the area of freedom of movement, you accept the Ship's ID cards, you accept the registration plates, you accept the Ship's driver's licenses, you give up Serbian plates in the KIM area and you agree that all car owners living on KIM have RKS or KS tables. In this way, in order to get those driver's licenses, they have to take the citizenship of Kosovo, they have to pay taxes to the Shiparian quasi state. So you directly recognize all of their institutions. One more thing I'm going to say. A further agreement on university diplomas was reportedly reached today. Knowing Borislav Stefanovic, you have probably abolished either Belgrade University or may have agreed to Azem Vlasi as the new rector. Meanwhile, a competition for the equipment of primary schools with computer equipment has been completed. According to Jasna Matic, State Secretary, 2802 schools in Serbia received complete computer equipment. KIM has been left out of this project. (President: Time. ) I ask for an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, firstly, when a debate will take place in the National Assembly on these topics that are of utmost importance. It is not the authority of four local self-government presidents from northern Kosovo. (President: Time. It's quite clear your question. I'm done. The second question is what will prevent the government of the Republic of Serbia from forming... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63342	Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63343	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia who are watching direct transfers, do not dispute the importance of issues raised here in previous times in the Assembly by colleagues of other parliamentary groups, KiM is the most important topic at the moment, but since I would have nothing to add to the issues, so that I do not repeat myself and ask what they have already asked, I will ask the Ministry of Economy for a notice from Minister Ciric and the Privatisation Agency. I'm kind of opening up a paper factory here in Chačka and several hundred workers, and I don't know how many thousands of family members whose fathers, brothers and sisters worked at the paper factory in Chačka until yesterday. The charter factory in Cacca is currently not working, with no perspective and no notice from the competent state authorities I mentioned here, what is the fate of the charter factory in Chačka, what is the fate of hundreds of families who have at least minimal existence working at the Charter Factory in Cacca? The workers' union at the Charter Factory in Chačka, more precisely their leader, Mr. Milos Tripkovic tried heroically, and through the strikes, and through the protests, and through the factory's blockades to fight at least for the minimum dignity of people, human rights to get information about what the state, what the government that privatised in one, I can say a very suspicious way, the paper factory in Chačka, what is the fate of the Charter Factory in Chačka, and finally, what is most important, what is the fate of the workers? If I tell you that there are a lot of sick and old people who were supposed to retire this year or a year or two, and when they get there in the competent state authorities, they see in the funds that their social security hasn't been paid, so they're not allowed to go and get those minimum pensions, hard and bloody earned. The paper factory with its range and programme of the Charter Factory in Chačka, according to my modest assessment and the assessment of people who are much more professional in the economy and that kind of industry than I am, has a perspective. Why is there an artificial and wild way to shut down the paper factory in Chačka? Why do people make themselves at home, to stay without a piece of bread? It is a response sought by workers across Serbia, including workers of the Charter Factory in Cačka. If I just point out that it is owned by the Paper Factory, which has a great and second tradition since before World War II, there was a machine that produced paper from which bills were made. That machine's gone. Then the state, the Ministry of Economy and the Privatisation Agency should be or should be made clear to them what this is about. It's a big crime. Simply, the owners are gone. They don't exist right now. The factory has been damaged in recent elemental accidents. Part of the roof is gone, so it's been raining, unfortunately, machines that workers have been doing with their sweat and effort, let's say, for decades. Therefore, I expect, not within 15 days of the legal deadline, that the Privatisation Agency and Minister Ciric respond immediately. Not because of my smallness but because of the fate of hundreds of paper factory workers waiting, at least one human response, for the state to say what its intentions are? Is he gonna break up the privatisation? Is the factory going bankrupt? So, it turns out that people don't know who to turn to and remain the most fierce kind of protest they're willing to protest, as they've informed me. So, I demand, ask and beg the Ministry of Economy, Minister Ciric and the Privatisation Agency, to immediately, as soon as during this session, instruct the answer to this question, above all to the workers of the Charter Factory in Cačka, who in one wild way have lost their jobs and whose interest is that? I hope that it will be learned, not only when it comes to the Charter Factory in Cačka, but also about hundreds of thousands of factories in Cačka and our country, which are closed because of the narrow private interests associated with the state authorities. As a result, we have more and more poor people, both in Cacca and in all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63344	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63345	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for asking for explanations from Interior Minister Mr Dacic about the incident that took place in the village of Grbavac, the municipality of Medvedja, when a police officer from the local police force, violently attacked the Ismaili family and brutal force was used towards children. In fact, it's only one major incident in a series of similar incidents happening in this municipality. I can't help but understand that this is still a kind of pressure on the few Albanians who stayed in the Medvedje municipality. You know that of the 5,500 Albanians in that municipality before the war, there are now only 500. Now, compared to this drastic minority, on them and their families in almost abandoned mountainous rural settlements, this has gone beyond measure. All the time I've been here talking and asking the government and asking the question – what will they do to allow minimum conditions for the return of the evasive population during the war? You see what's happening now in relation to that little population that's left over there. Before that, we had a series of court proceedings, in which Albanians are accused and punished for alleged attacks, threats to their Serbian neighbours and even rape. I think it's gone too far with this now, this attack on the whole family, where the physical injuries got the head of the family, Fadil Ismaili, actually Sokol Ismaili, and even the children went through with the injuries. I think it's time for the Ministry to inform the Assembly about what she's been doing and what she's been doing so far, what is she going to do to make the challengers of this serious incident a proper punishment? What I think is even more serious, what will be done not to repeat similar incidents that threaten public order and peace, and by those who are about to safeguard public order and peace? I don't think these situations should be repeated in any way. That is why I am asking, urgently, of the Minister and I want to hear – what and what measures are being taken not to repeat such things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63346	Since none of the presidents, or authorized representatives, answer for word, we continue to work. We would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Vitomir Mihajlović, Mladen Grujic and Zoran Nikolic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoters Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, Srdjan Srečković, Minister of Faith and Diaspora and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, I have called for the members to attend also Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Justice. You were presented with the minutes of session 12, 13, and the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 and the minutes of the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions, as provided for in Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that, by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee, it has been established that none of the Members of the People's Committee has been delivered in writing any objection for those minutes, so we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19 and 26 September 2011. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, 122 for. There are objections that I have not previously established the quorum, but we have established the quorum at the beginning of the session and there is no need to re-establish it, and the electronic system allows us to see for the facts. So, I'm announcing the results of the plea. Of the 134 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I understand we've adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 20, 21, 22, 23 and 26 September 2011. Please make a statement. Of 130 MPs, 120 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 26 September 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 117 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 11, 12, 13, 17 and 18 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 110 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the 2011 edition of the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 3 November 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 116 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare proposals for the agenda of acts under the urgent procedure – THE PROPOSAL FOR THE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPOSED DAY AND THE PROPOSAL OF THE SPANISHING OF THE PROGRAMME. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2011, should be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 120 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Emergency Law be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 111 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Rehabilitation Law be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 118 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 20 MPs from the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a declaration on the renewal of state policy in Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2011. Please make a statement. Of 145 MPs, 18 for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 20 MPs from the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - the proposal for a declaration on the renewal of the state-run policy in Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2011, and that the proposed item be classified as the first item of the agenda. Since the proposing's representative wants a word, Mr Samardzic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63347	Thank you. The honourable MPs, the speaker of the assembly, were well known that the government had failed to present the proposal for a KIM declaration to the assembly, a declaration promised to the public and to this assembly and the assembly for some time to expect it to happen, and as it is known, it did not happen. The reasons are also known. There were deep cracks, distinctions, and divisions in the government itself, so the cheapest seemed to be that no declaration was handed over to the congregation, nor was the adoption assembly. Therefore, the DSS decided to submit its proposal for a declaration, firm in its belief that this matter must be discussed, regardless of which one declaration was adopted on July 31st. From July 31st to today, major changes occurred both in the KIM and in the negotiation process. The matter went almost to the end of Kosovo's recognition by Serbia, i.e. The governments of Serbia and the assembly have the right to declare this, to say their opinion and their own word. The DSS has put forward a proposal for a declaration that you have the opportunity to read, but for this occasion, I do not think of it as speaking, of its contents, except to draw attention to the MPs that in their content, the proposal for a declaration is enormously consistent with the conclusions of the recently held assembly of four municipalities at KIM. I would draw attention to several points of coincidence, the DSS parliamentary club and the party themselves, with this proposal for conclusions adopted unanimously by the boards of four congregations in northern Kosovo. First of all, they asked to suspend talks with the Albanian side with the EU's intermediation, given several reasons. One reason is that these talks so far have shown disastrous results for Serbia's state interests and the interests of the Serbs in KIM and for the same reason that decisions or so on are abolished. the agreed conclusions reached in these talks. There were more words on the Committee and on this congregation, and I would not talk about it. Serbia cannot accept the type of ultimatum and the kind of state masochism that preaches the top of Serbia at the moment, given not only the clearly poor results on paper, but also the clear views of the people directly concerned by these conclusions and directly concerned. These are Serbs in KIM wide, especially in the north of KIM, who have expressed their position in this list. Therefore, at the very least, we believe that this Parliament... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... He had to talk about it, and that's why we're proposing a declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63348	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 145 MPs, 19 for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to a motion to merge the debate. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, pursuant to Article 92(2), Articles 157 and 178. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on emergency situations and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police (points 2 and 3 of the proposed agenda); Under two, a joint principled review of the Act on Health Law on General Use, Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Biocidal Products and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Republic of Serbia and the Amendments to the Act on the Law on the Amendments of the Republic of Serbia; Next, a Common Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia and of the Republic of Serbia, a Proposal on the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to theRepublic At the same time, MP Srdjan Milivojevic informed him that he was withdrawing a motion to merge the debate, which he submitted at 15 hours and 25 minutes on 15 November 2011. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 123 MPs voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and the proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. So we're making a statement about the draft agenda in general. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the proposed agenda. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 as a whole. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a Rehabilitation Act, submitted by the Government (number 011-3678/11 of 31 October 2011); 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3668/11 of 28). 3 October 2011); 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police, which was submitted by the Government (number 2/3635/11 of 26 October 2011); 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government (number 131-3575/11 of 20 October 2011); 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, which was submitted by the Government (number 120-1626/10 of 10 June 2010); 6. Proposal for a market surveillance law submitted by the Government (number 011-33811 of 6 October 2011); 7. Proposal for a health law on the subject of general application, submitted by the Government (number 5-3610/11 of 24). In the United States of America, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and the United Kingdom, the European Union, the United Kingdom, and the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the United Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Maritime Privileges and Mortials, submitted by the Government (Number 011-3585/11 of 21 October 2011); 11. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Agreement on the International Transport of Equipped Foods and Special Means for Their Transport (ATP), which was submitted by the Government (number 344-3644/11 of 26 October 2011); 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait, which was submitted by the Government (number 343-34811 of 14 October 2011); 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia, which was submitted by the Government (number 343-3666/11 of 28 October 2011); 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of defence and the status of their forces, which was submitted by the Government (number 8-3479/11 of 14 October 2011); 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, which was submitted by the Government (number 8-3480/11 of 14 October 2011); 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes submitted by the Government (number 43-3526/11 of 17 October 2011); 17. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the incentive and mutual protection of investments submitted by the Government (number 011-3617/11 of 24 October 2011); 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the temporary employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Bosnia and Herzegovina and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government (number 11-3527/11 of 17 October 2011); 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of environmental protection, which was submitted by the Government (number 501-3589/11 of 21 October 2011); 20. Proposal to elect an election member of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Law Chamber of Serbia (number 119-3548/11 of 19 October 2011). We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before that, please, let us allow all the members of the Administrative Board to immediately go to Hall 1, where the session of this committee will be held. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a REHABILITATION LAW
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63349	You've received a bill from the government. You've received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs who wish to participate in the debate, for our Article 96, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure obliges us to do so before I give a word to a representative of the Government or the first speaker who, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, has the right to take a word after the opening of the search. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups also authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Konstantin Arsenović, PUPS MP; Parliament MP Laslo Varga, a minority parliamentary group; MP Milisav Petronijevic, the SPS parliamentary group – JS and the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, the SRS parliamentary group. If any other parliamentary groups wish to appoint their representative, please inform us during the search, so that we can provide information to the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. I call upon the National Assembly to inform the minister. She informed him. Before I ask if the minister, who is the promoter, wants a word based on Articles 87 and 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the following notice. Today's break will be set at the usual time, at 1400 hours, from one hour to 15.00 hours. We will also work after 18.00 hours, on the basis of Article 87, and we will try, depending on the pace of work and on the need for time to be used to discuss the 1st item of the agenda, that after the completion of the search on the agenda, whose principle search has just been opened to the next joint principle search during today's working day. Does Minister Oliver Dulic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63350	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, a major apology on behalf of Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. She is, unfortunately, absent and asked me to replace her in the debate on this important topic. I hope the Minister will also join us in the debate in particular. As you know, today will be about the Bill on Rehabilitation, whose need for adoption was pointed out by the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly, as well as by numerous associations and citizens. I would like to remind you that the current Rehabilitation Act, which regulates the rehabilitation of persons deprived of life, freedom or other rights for political or ideological reasons, was adopted in 2006, and that one of the most important issues, the question of the rights of rehabilitated persons, is governed by that law. In addition, as one of the most controversial issues raised in the professional public, the question of the so-called arrangements was raised. legal rehabilitation, which is also not regulated by the law. Also, the applicable law does not regulate questions related to the rules applicable to the rehabilitation procedure. All these issues were raised by the professional public, but above all by the case law in the procedure of applying the applicable law. I would also point out that in early 2007, the first judicial resolution on rehabilitation was published, with 1,500 decisions by courts establishing rehabilitation. Also, there are still about 800 procedures in front of senior courts for rehabilitation. Since issues could not be regulated by amendments and additions to the existing law, a working group has been educated to prepare a working version of the new rehabilitation law. The members of the task force were representatives of scientific institutions, courts of different degrees, as well as legal professions. This bill regulates rehabilitation and the legal consequences of rehabilitation of persons who are for political, religious, national or ideological reasons deprived of life, freedom or other rights. Unlike the applicable law, this law extends and precises the circle of the person to which rehabilitation applies, as so far there have been many concerns in court practice. In addition to persons deprived of life, freedom or other rights, without an administrative or judicial decision, rehabilitation of persons who are deprived of life or other rights by the judicial or administrative decisions of the Republic of Serbia, provided that such a decision is made against the principles of the rule of law and the generalised standards of human rights and freedoms. The bill also provides for one restriction, which is that the right to rehab does not have persons deprived of life during World War II on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as members of the occupation armed forces and Quinsling formations. Also, the bill knows another limit, which is that the right to rehab does not have members of the occupation forces and members of the Quinsling formations that have committed or participated in the execution of war crimes. Since war crimes do not go out of date in criminal and legal terms, no matter who committed them, war crimes cannot even be allowed to be rehabilitated. However, the bill also allows individuals who have previously been declared war criminals by judicial, military or administrative authorities to exercise the right to rehabilitation in the court proceedings if war crimes are found not to have been committed. The bill provides for two types of rehabilitation, and that is legal rehabilitation, i.e. rehabilitation by law and rehabilitation on the basis of a court decision. Regardless of the type of rehabilitation, it is necessary to obtain the properties of a rehabilitated person to make a judicial decision, where legal rehabilitation determines that the person is rehabilitated according to the law, while the court rehabilitates him with its decision. The right to legal rehabilitation is for persons whose rights have been violated without judicial or administrative decision in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as persons whose rights have been violated outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, without judicial or administrative decision, who have had or have residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, legal rehabilitation also belongs to persons who, on the basis of a judicial or administrative decision, have been punished for an act which was not laid down by law at the time of execution as a criminal offence, or who are punished by a penalty which was not prescribed at the time of the execution, as well as persons who were punished for the offences prescribed by the laws adopted after World War II, which are contrary to the generally accepted standards of human rights and freedoms. The right to legal rehabilitation is also exercised by those who are deprived of liberty on the charge that they have pleaded for the resolution of Informburo, thus correcting the injustice done to these persons. Also, by law enforcement, people who are, in principle, collectively responsible are declared war criminals, because every crime must be individualised and every culprit must have his name and last name. The bill provides that, in addition to the person to whom the rehabilitation applies, the application can be submitted by close relatives of that person, and that the application can be submitted by a public prosecutor, in the case of particularly serious infringements of the rule of law and generally accepted standards of human rights and freedom, i.e. a legal person whose aim is to protect human and citizen rights and freedoms. The bill allows for the submission of requests to a greater number of persons, in order to enable the exercise of the rights arising from rehabilitation and in cases where the person to whom the rehabilitation relates is unable to only submit the application. As so far, the procedure under the rehabilitation request is indeed in charge of a senior court, and in order to increase the efficiency of the conduct of this procedure, it is proposed that a judge should judge an individual in these proceedings. The legal paper is the court's obligation to notify the Ministry of Justice immediately of the application. That notification is necessary for the reason that, in the case-law, more claims were made for the rehabilitation of the same person, in front of different senior courts. The bill provides that the case will be brought before that court before which the proceedings were before. The draft law provides that the applicant in the rehabilitation procedure shall have the right to free legal assistance, as well as to exempt the costs of the proceedings, thus enabling the exercise of the right before the court and persons who need legal assistance, or persons who do not have the means for the costs of this procedure. The bill prescribes the rules of the rehabilitation process, which is a newspaper in relation to the applicable law. A request for rehabilitation shall be decided by the court in a unilateral or bilateral procedure and, as a rule, outside the litigation procedure. In a unilateral procedure, the court decides on legal rehabilitation, with the opinion of the competent public prosecutor previously obtained. In the event the public prosecutor contests a request for rehabilitation, further court proceedings will be conducted as two-party. When it comes to judicial rehabilitation, the court decides in a two-party procedure, with another participant in the process as a competent public prosecutor representing the Republic of Serbia. The court ruling in the rehabilitation procedure is subject to appeal by the competent court of appeal, which provides for an appropriate remedy in this procedure. As I initially pointed out, in relation to the applicable law, rehabilitated persons are foreseen the widest possible scope of rights that these persons can achieve. These persons have the right to a special pension internship, monthly cash compensation, health care, the right to recover confiscated or otherwise seized property, or its compensation, as well as the right to compensation for both material and immaterial damage. The bill stipulates that a rehabilitated person is recognised as a time of deprivement of liberty as a special retirement internship for a double duration. In addition to a special retirement internship, a rehabilitated person is also recognised as a time of unemployment after the end of his retirement, as a special retirement internship. These persons also have the right to monthly cash compensation, as a special supplement, up to 50% of the average monthly salary in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law also lays down the right of the rehabilitated person to return the confiscated or otherwise seized property, i.e. compensation for that property, given that, according to earlier regulations, the confiscation of the property was a special sanction, and that the rehabilitated person must be allowed to return his property which was wrongly taken away from him. The bill also provides for compensation for material and immaterial damage. The rehabilitated person shall be entitled to compensation for material damage caused by the violation of rights and freedoms, as well as the right to return the fines and the costs of the proceedings paid. The right to compensation for immaterial damage has other persons if they have suffered mental pain due to the death of a rehabilitated person. To obtain rehabilitation compensation, there is a need for a judicial decision on rehabilitation. An application for this compensation shall be submitted to the Commission, which will be educated in the Ministry of Justice. The Commission is scheduled to make decisions that fully or partially adopt the request. If the application has not been adopted or has been partially adopted, the applicant may file a complaint for rehabilitation damage to the competent court. The decision to adopt the requirements, i.e. the rehabilitation compensation agreement, constitutes an executive correction. The transitional provisions of the bill provide for procedures to be initiated under the provisions of the applicable Rehabilitation Act to be terminated under the provisions of the law, and for persons who have been rehabilitated to date to exercise rehabilitation rights under this bill. This solution is necessary, since rehabilitated persons so far have not been able to obtain the right to adequate compensation, i.e. compensation, which is the most important reason for the adoption of this law. In addition, given certain differences between the proposal for this law and the applicable rehabilitation law, it is possible for persons who, under the applicable law, are to be denied a rehabilitation request, in accordance with the conditions laid down in this bill, and to exercise their rights if the conditions are met. At the end of this presentation, I would like to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that, after the debate in the National Assembly, the bill will be adopted, creating normative assumptions for the exercise of the rights of rehabilitated persons and correcting the wrongs committed to those persons and their families, which is also necessary for the future of the Republic of Serbia and of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63351	Does the committee's rapporteur want a word, MP Bosko Ristic? No, I don't. Do they want the word representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups? National MP Konstantin Arsenovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63352	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister gave very detailed reasons and purpose for the adoption of this law, who, when and how they are subject to rehabilitation and how the rights are exercised, etc., which is the essence of this law. In some questions, I may repeat myself, but I will also present some of my thoughts. The proposed law on rehabilitation, as stated in its explanation, addresses certain issues not regulated by the Rehabilitation Act, which the assembly adopted in 2006. The previous law did not resolve the questions of the right to compensation for damages and the right to recover confiscated assets. In addition, this law regulates the right to rehabilitate persons who are for political, religious or ideological reasons deprived of freedom, life or other rights outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia if they have or have residence in the territory of Serbia or citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law for the simple reason that it rehabilitates persons who are eventually convicted for political, religious or ideological reasons and thus deprived of life, freedom or other rights. I think we'll all agree that every injustice hurts and affects the innocent and has wider consequences, not only on the person who is exposed to this injustice, but, as a rule, it affects the nearest. The greater the injustice, the greater the consequences. However, how much rehabilitation of individuals will be able to objectify, having all the circumstances and times when all this was happening, is a very different issue and it is a matter of judicial authorities. Here the question can be asked – what about those who are later, even recently wrongfully convicted of differences in political and ideological attitudes? So in my further discussion, I want to point out the facts that, as an ordinary citizen, I find very interesting to anyone, this congregation would have to deal with. In fact, no one in their right mind, at least I think so, will support the injustice, and that is why we are all advocating and we must fight injustice with all means. The laws are the most powerful and only legal means to sanction any injustice, provided they are applied. Nevertheless, we must be aware that injustice is an integral part of life and is present in every place, even in the family, and the understanding of injustice depends on those who make justice. This means that the concept of injustice is very relative and is dependent on the conditions under which it is considered, that is, from social, political, economic and similar conditions. For a particular benefit to a particular act or action, although it has been done against man, is not considered an injustice and is justified by the goal that is to be achieved, especially in achieving political objectives. It has always been present in the human race and will be present. We are witnessing an injustice that has been done by world powers towards Serbia and around the world, Iraq, Libya, etc. This little depression that I've brought forward has been the reason why I've been thinking about the proposed law on rehabilitation, the people whose injustice was done more than 60 years ago, that we may not have needed this law. Why did I come to such a conclusion? I'm not sure that we will correct all injustices and that by correcting one injustice we do not do another? We all know why we're doing this. I want to point out that I am all against injustice. The wrongs done should serve us as an example of how we should not work. For understanding the concept of injustice and that it can be interpreted differently is the best example of Jesus. As we all know, he is unjustly crucified, but we know that there are also those who believe that he is justly crucified. Or, let us take an example of the bombing of Serbia, The Hague, sanctions, the Kosovo issue, etc. Western forces, it is the summoning of justice, and for our people, and for me, the greatest possible injustice. When we consider the proposed rehabilitation law, a new problem arises. It is that the culprits of the wrong done will not suffer the consequences, and in human nature it is more important for him to be punished by the perpetrator of injustice, not for being freed or rehabilitated. A new moment defined in the law is financial resources for the rehabilitated person's compensation, which will be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Like all other types of compensation, it will break over the back of present and future generations. This is where the logical question arises – is it just that this burden is borne by those generations that had nothing to do with the wrong done, that is also a new injustice. Personally, I think it was better that at the present moment we focused on eliminating the present injustices. Do we think that recently and now there was no or no injustice? I believe we don't think so. There were them, they're all over the place, and there's gonna be a lot more of them. The types of injustice in shape, content and size could be listed and discussed for days, which have been done since the 1990s to date and towards our people in general, as well as for many individuals. Where you will be more unjust when you take away a person’s acquired rights, such as the reduction of the income of a powerful man’s will, you will not pay him a profit or a gainful pension and, moreover, what an injustice it is when you deprive someone of the right to work by destroying and selling down companies or when employment depends on which party you belong, and not how professional you are, when your job depends on your boss’s mercy, whether or not he likes you, and not how you work, and how professional you are. Bribery, corruption, crime continues to flourish, and the right to treatment is increasingly being restricted. We are trying to rehabilitate people who were wronged, or who were convicted of mistakes made by an ideological, political and religious system 60 years ago, but we are powerless to reduce and sanction the injustices that individuals are now doing, even the current system, although there are laws that sanction such acts. Will it happen to us in 30 or 40 years to pass a law that will in some way damage the present generation? In advance, it was not directed at the demeaning of the proposed law and any body, especially not the ministries proposed by this law. I don't take it for granted, because it's not my profession. You simply consider all of this a single thought of a man who has certain life experiences, and believe me, there are many of my contemporaries. My goal was simply to point out that by correcting an injustice that was done many years ago, the problem is not entirely solved. We need to draw experiences and not repeat the same or similar mistakes. We are at such a social, economic and political level that by solving this problem, we have not brought the matter to an end and I fear possible consequences that I would not talk about. I'll finish with one finding. I had a chance to read the thoughts of a wise man who defined the ten basics that make the essence and meaning of the law. I wouldn't quote it, but in free form, as I understand it, I'm going to name some of them. He says the law has its own reason and human need, that the power of the law in his idea, and the strength and idea in the need of humanity, the best law is the most light, in its realisation the law humanizes man and transforms society, the law changes, restores and introduces newspapers, etc. Comparing these specifics with the proposed law is one of the following, which is that it humanizes man and transforms society, which is why I support him. This provision, like others, would be even stronger if we didn't have as many injustices as there are in the present time. By finishing my presentation, I repeat that the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63353	Nine minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Laszlo Varg has the word, after which the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63354	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the law on the agenda, i.e. the Bill on Rehabilitation, together with the Law on Restitution, i.e. the law on the return of severance property and compensation, makes one whole, and the common characteristic or common objective of these two laws, or should be on the one hand the correcting of historical injustices, and on the other hand the giving of contributions to historical reconciliation. The Law on Restitution, therefore, did not meet this second objective, or the objective of making a contribution to reconciliation, in the Law on Returns and Compensation, which was adopted on 26 September this year in the National Assembly. On the one hand, this law has committed one great injustice and contains one provision which at this time means the possibility of a continuation of this injustice. What's this about? One provision of the Restitution Act, therefore, excludes one collective, one group of persons from the provision laid down in Article 5(3) of that Law, from the process of restitution, these are members of the occupation forces operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and without establishing criteria on which they would be excluded from the process of restitution, therefore, without determining their responsibility. For this reason, I claim that Parliament and the Government, of course, together, when we passed or when we passed the Restitution Act, failed the exam, on the case I was talking about, from the subject of making contributions to reconciliation. We are now facing a correctional exam, and I would like to say that the Rehabilitation Law fully meets this need and that we will be very pleased to vote in favour of the bill if this bill does not undergo some fundamental changes during the assembly procedure. Unfortunately, that's what I'm going to say, we have bad experience when it comes to this subject. They were, or remained, moments in the process of adopting the Law on Restitution, when we felt that this discriminatory provision from that law would be removed, or amended. That's not what happened. For this reason, we are very moderate in optimism and when it comes to the Rehabilitation Act. What does this bill mean for us, or practically one part of the Rehabilitation Law? It means correcting the virtual injustice that was done when the Restitution Act was passed. It wasn't pleasant, it wasn't pleasant when we were experienced by the MPs of the SVM, of course, tens of thousands of people we represent, that humiliation we experienced and that stigmatization practically according to which we were once again collectively declared war criminals, simply from that provision of the Law of Restitution, it results. We haven't spoken once, and I'm not going to say now that those provisions apply either to it or it's either against it or written to discriminate against a minority community. We never said that. I'm not gonna say it now. This provision was discriminatory because it discriminated against a group of people because of their belonging to the group, because of their belonging to the occupation forces. With this bill if, once again, this bill in this form is passed, this injustice is corrected, and for us it will mean recognition of error, recognition of the huge mistake that was made here in parliament on 26 September when the Restitution Act was passed. Article 2 The Rehabilitation Law proposal, therefore, on the agenda of this law, means a solution that removes the principle of collective responsibility from the restitution process and, above all, from the Hungarian community. What is the essence of the proposed solution which, I can say, is the fruit of the agreement between the Ministry of Justice on the one hand and the MPs of the SVM, or our party. The key of the proposed solution is to unambiguously exclude or delete the principle of collective responsibility from the process of restitution. Article 2(1) The draft law refers unequivocally to and textually to Article 5(3) of the Restitution Act and thus means one unambiguous, or one unambiguous clarification of the concept of members of the occupation forces, i.e. a group that is excluded and which will be excluded from the restitution process. What does this solution mean? On the one hand, it means that members of these occupation forces and Quislin formations against whom there are no decisions or rulings on their responsibilities from the post-war period can and will be able, without any restriction, to participate in the restitution process. So no one who has not been punished in the post-war period, no one whose responsibility has not been determined, whether or not he was a member of these occupation forces will suffer any consequences and will not be denied one right, nor the right to participate in the process of restitution. And that applies to their heirs. On the other hand, those members of these occupation forces, hence Hungarian, German, Bulgarian, Croatian armies and some domestic Quislin formations against which there are post-war decisions, so whose responsibility has been determined after World War II and which these decisions have been declared war criminals or war crimes participants, will have the opportunity, whether they or their descendants are practically initiating a request, to initiate a rehabilitation procedure to re-establish their responsibility, i.e. innocence in the process. What is the third essence, the third point of this solution and our agreement? The burden of proof will be, yes, in the state, practically on the senior public prosecutor. Article 13(1) The bill says the court is supplying evidence and data from competent state authorities and organisations. With this mechanism I was talking about, therefore, the responsibility of the members of these occupation forces is individualized. It is possible for all those against whom decisions exist or judgments on their guilt to be rehabilitated, to submit or initiate rehabilitation proceedings. On the third hand, the burden of proof is in the state. So it is not those who bear the demands of their innocence that prove their guilt that the state will be obliged to prove their guilt. I was talking about a bad experience when it comes to, when I was talking about the process of passing the Restitution Act. I didn't happen to talk about it, and now they've already been taken, and I'm sure by now some other amendments whose practical acceptance would mean derogating this solution and putting it beyond the strength of that agreement that we have reached. I want to say in advance, if that happens again, we'll find ourselves in a situation where we won't be able to support this bill and practically if our agreement breaks, then we'll be back in the same position we left a few weeks ago. I would therefore appeal to the Justice Department's representative to pass on this suggestion to the authorities and to this request, because otherwise all that we've done together is practically loses its meaning. They were accepted, so along with this solution that I was talking about, and some of our amendments that we submitted to the original Rehabilitation Law, which was addressed in early September in the congregation procedure and later withdrawn. Above all, our suggestion is that the possibility of rehabilitation, not only applies to those whose rights have been practically abolished or violated for political, religious or ideological reasons, but also for national reasons. Many examples exist from World War II and the postwar period, when Serbian citizens are deprived of freedom, life or other rights due to belonging to certain national communities. So, not for political, ideological or religious reasons, but for belonging to certain national or certain national communities. For this reason, it is important that this suggestion is adopted. For us, the most important and partly symbolic, and in part the essential proposal adopted in relation to the original Rehabilitation Law refers to value determination and determination in terms of some post-war decisions made on the basis of the principle of collective guilt. We've talked about this more than once in Parliament, and now I'm going to do it. So, residents of three villages in Vojvodina, Curuga, Frog and Moshorina are based on collective guilt, or decisions based on the principle of collective guilt, collectively, without exception, declared war criminals. On the one hand, there has been a decision since 26 March 1945, when all residents of the village of Moshorin, the Hungarian nationality, so 294 persons, have been declared war criminals, as perpetrators, promoters or helpers for crimes, without determining their individual responsibility. The second decision came from January 1945, the same body, the Committee for the Identification of Crimes of Occupiers and their assistants in Vojvodina. This second decision found that all inhabitants of the Hungarian and German nationalities of the Municipality of Curug, Sreza Žabljski in Vojvodina, were responsible as perpetrators, instigators or assistants for crimes and were declared war criminals. These decisions relate to both newborn babies and children and women, and to the elderly and the male population, without exception and without determining responsibility. It is extremely important that the bill contains one provision under which persons who have been declared war criminals will be rehabilitated under the law, as a principle of collective responsibility. In relation to this solution, there is one amendment to the opposition MPs which would have been deleted from the draft law. It would be a great shame and a great injustice if that amendment were accepted. What does this provision mean? On the one hand, it means to shorten the procedure against these persons. On the other hand, it means that the court will practically determine two circumstances -- whether that person had at that time resided in the territory of these settlements, and on the other hand whether there was any decision against that person to determine his or her individual responsibility. If such a decision does not exist, the court will decide on rehabilitation in a shortened or simplified procedure. What is the symbolic meaning of this decision? The symbolic importance is enormous, assuming that parliament adopts the bill in this form. In fact, parliament will be determined in a valuable sense according to post-war decisions that certain national communities in the Hungarian community have been declared collectively war criminals in the three settlements. Parliament, if it accepts this solution, will take a clear view that these decisions were illegal and also against the law. Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice was the first representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 67 years to speak openly and openly about the injustice committed to the inhabitants of these three villages in Vojvodina and which, of course, negatively, was determined according to these two decisions that I quoted. For this reason, we are optimistic about this issue and we expect that this part of the law does not change either. There are other parts that are important and important to us. For example, the possibility of legal persons applying for rehabilitation. We consider it an important value of this law. In fact, it will open or open up the possibility, the law does not speak of it, but the law states that those legal entities are initiating proceedings in a group way. So, for the majority of persons, they are launching rehabilitation procedures so that the greater number of persons can be freed of the responsibility that is unfair after World War II and imposed on him or her. What is very important is that this law will send a positive message to the inter-academic and mixed committee, which is formed between the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and the Hungarian Academy of Science and Art. This mixed commission began working and is working to illuminate tragic events during World War II. With these solutions and this law, the commission will receive one support for its work and conservation. It is not less important that the government prepares the budget in the process for next year is also ready to identify the necessary material resources for the work of this inter-academic commission because the success of this body depends partly on material opportunities. To sum up, we're satisfied with the solutions in the bill. We are left with one long-term goal, and this goal is that when this inter-academic commission completes its work and brings its conclusions then, in the form of a girlry, proposes to our parliament and the parliament of Hungary. This would mean one symbolic closure of this sad chapter of our common history, of course, all of it conscious and without the illusion that it would happen quickly. In the end, I would only repeat once more that we support the law in this form. We are not prepared to uphold the law if any essential and important provision changes. Some of them I've been talking about, some of them I'm not talking about. It would be a shame if the provisions relating to the benefits of rehabilitated persons changed. There are several amendments. We disagree with them. All in all, what is most important and most important to us are the solutions that I spoke about at the beginning of the presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63355	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63356	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill of Rehabilitation, which is now on the agenda, is important for several reasons. I think passing the Rehabilitation Act is both necessary and necessary. An emergency, since we were just listening, is impossible to apply the Restitution Act without it. It is urgent because this government has done very much to meet all EU accession standards and it has met them and I believe it will continue to meet standards for Serbia, not for the EU. The bill of law and the need, for the simple reason that the injustices that were indisputable should be corrected. Serbia is also known in the world for its debacles, for its major debacles, and we think it's time for the wrongs to be right, for the division to leave the past, for the historians. History, if it's not who it is, it's back on the agenda of historians, historical institutes, etc., not politicians. The essence, according to us, of the Rehabilitation Act is reflected in Article 1, point 1, so, first sentence. I will quote it because I will constantly associate my entire discussion with this sentence – "This law regulates rehabilitation and the legal consequences of rehabilitation of persons who are from political, religious, national or ideological reasons deprived of life, freedom or other rights until the day of entry into force of this law." When that sentence is read, when it's the essence of this law, we're absolutely in agreement with it and I believe they're all. And the Constitution says that the right to rehab has one who is without grounds and illegally detained, convicted, etc. So out of this attitude comes our key political stance. Rehabilitation yes. Who has the right to rehab? Any person who, for ideological political, religious and national reasons, not only has been detained, arrested, sentenced, deprived of life, but has experienced any injustice, has the right to rehabilitation. But only those faces and only for those reasons, everything outside of that is not rehabilitation. Of course, the first position, which we consider to be the essence of this bill, and it is for absolute support for another reason, as it says - until the entry into force of this law, therefore, without a time and historical provision. We think that's important, too, so we don't bargain over the date from when it's in place. It's just, it's true until today. We think that for another reason, that rehabilitation of persons who have suffered injustice for ideological political reasons does not essentially re-ideology, but another, but a universal right for every man. That's another reason why we think we should support it. What I also want to say, and I'm going to point out that I'm going back to that, is that it applies to all persons who have suffered any injustice, without judicial or administrative decisions, or judicial and administrative decisions. What we also want to clearly support and want to make our position clear, as we have said who can rehabilitate, who needs or needs to rehabilitate, we also feel that it is very important to say who cannot rehabilitate. Such a bill says that they do not have the right of persons deprived of life in armed conflicts as members of the occupation armed forces and Quinslinian formations, as well as those who, as members of the occupation forces and members of the Quinslinian formations, committed or participated in the execution of war crimes. There's no rehabilitation for them. Also, we add that it is very important that rehabilitation depends on the severity of the crime. I repeat, anyone who is for ideological political, religious and national reasons must have rehabilitation. Those who committed crimes, don't turn out that everyone has now stolen, killed, raped, and so forth for ideological, political reasons. and for all ideological, political, religious, national reasons. There's a great responsibility of the court when he solves it. With all that in mind, we've made it very clear who can be rehabilitated and we've made it clear who can't be. They can't be the ones who committed war crimes, participated in war crimes, who committed serious crimes, etc., there's some other way for them to repeat themselves, or already, not to enter those details. In the third part, I will briefly address a number of issues that I consider important to clarify until the end of the debate, both in principle and in particular, until the end of the debate on the Rehabilitation Law, with one goal and in the best interest, to obtain a law that will be applicable, which will enable the easiest possible way to remedy injustices, but which will not allow anyone to smuggle through that formulation, that has suffered injustice from ideological, political, religious and national reasons. I'll start with Article 1. The first question that I think needs to be clarified in detail, for these reasons that I was talking about, is that the right to rehab, if a judicial or administrative decision is made against the principles of the rule of law and even accepted standards of human rights and freedoms at all. At first glance, it's undeniable, but we're having a dispute. What principles and standards? The present or the present? The current and then principles and standards are not the same. There must be a clearer definition here. The second thing I want to point out, in the same article, is attitude 3, where it says - the right to rehab also has the persons of the 1st article, which is considered to be a national-releasing war in accordance with the law and other regulations. I don't know who came up with this sentence, but it looks like the following. Everyone has the right, except those who committed war crimes, and besides everyone else, they have these. I think it's really completely superfluous. So if basically everyone has the right to rehab, they don't have the right to commit crimes, they committed crimes yesterday. What does that mean now? That they all have one. I think it's completely excessive. The second thing I want to point out is, it's the third one, Mr. Micunovic is already counting it, in article 2, it's about people who don't have the right to rehab. Among other things, it is said that persons who were members of the occupation forces, the Quislin Information, I don't know why the Quislins, the Norwegians, why not the aide, the associates of the occupation forces, who participated in the execution of war crimes, which is not disputed, but in one of the following positions they say – under the persons of Article 1, they are not considered persons who are rehabilitated by law. Can law enforcement rehabilitate a person who has committed or engaged in war crimes? That's a third attitude somewhere. The second question says -- as well as those for whom they have found in the rehabilitation process that they have not carried out -- which is not disputed. Well, it has been found that the rehabilitation process has not been carried out, for them to be certain that this position is not valid. Why do I mention this? It is not logical for people who are rehabilitated, by law enforcement, who have been subjected to those who have participated in war crimes, to be legally rehabilitated. Why? We just heard there's a legal and judicial rehabilitation. Legal rehabilitation is the court's finding that he is rehabilitated under the law, while the court should already have some process. When it comes to legal rehabilitation, it says very correctly here that it refers to all those who, without an administrative or judicial decision, have suffered injustice, which is fine, but I find it very problematic – can points 2, 3, 4, 5 in that article, not to order them, talk about judicial decisions for a criminal offence, can they legally rehabilitate? I don't think so. It's got to be a court case. Let him have the right to apply for rehabilitation, but let the court proceedings determine. It's about the court's decision to commit a crime. There may have been mistakes, it may not have been done properly, but let the court be established, especially if there is a possibility that what is later said, that the court decision may be so that a partial application for rehabilitation is adopted, and not in part. Legally, there's no part of it. The complete decision is annulled. I think that's where that part is supposed to go for all the crimes that the decision is about, to go to court rehabilitation. I want to point one question. I don't mind, but I don't think it's good. The application for rehabilitation is scheduled to be decided by the individual judge. I don't think that's good, because it's very difficult questions. I think it was better, as bad as that previous law was, it was better when there were more than three judges. There's a lot of responsibility in the judges. It is a great responsibility because, knowing that if a person is rehabilitated, the work that it does is rehabilitated. It is a great responsibility to determine all of this, especially because there are no clear criteria. What are the criteria, so to say, this one is for ideological, political, religious, national reasons convicted, accused etc. So I think the solution is better when a bigger judge does it. As a result of legal rehabilitation, it is also the right of rehabilitated persons. I think we have reserves here when it comes to two things, the right to monthly cash compensation, as a special supplement, because it applies to people who already have the right to a double retirement internship and the second right to rehab, especially a whole series of people who have the right to do so, and not just those who are concerned, or who have applied for rehabilitation. We don't think that's good. We think it is very difficult for Serbia, especially in conditions in which Serbia is today. We think that the injustices that need to be recorded that the papers should not be done to create a new injustice for the citizens of Serbia today and in the future. I'll finish with just one more question, Article 30. – what is the essence, when position 3 is put here, which says – a rehabilitation application under this law can be made although a judicial decision has been taken to reject a rehabilitation application under the Rehabilitation Act. A court ruling made, a judicial one, what's the point now? Whether it will be placed in what is called legal rehabilitation, so in court it cannot be established, and now through that formulation – legal – to determine. I wanted to make these observations in my best interest, that every single one of these questions must be discussed to the end with a basic goal of obtaining a law that will really give an answer set out in the first position, that anyone who, for ideological, political, religious reasons, has experienced any injustice being rehabilitated and that no one can be smuggled into it through the various acts that he has done. Let us not forget that the work that was done must also be observed, so that it does not turn out to be stolen, killed, raped, speculated for ideological and political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63357	This concludes the morning part of our session, and we continue our work at 15.00 hours of presentations by the president or by authorised representatives of other parliamentary groups. (The Faith of Radeta: Who is the first in a row?) In order, whoever gets reported. Two MPs were reported, MP Jorvanka Tabaković and Verica Radet, but I follow the right to give a word from the smallest group, so that if MPs who still have fewer MPs come, they will be entitled to a word. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. The Presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the right to speak. The first of those reported is National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63359	Thank you. The Rehabilitation Act, as many of my colleagues have said before, actually raises the question of repentance for recognised sins, apologies but, in fact, first of all, I mean damages. This law, as well as many things in this country, sort of on the wrong side solves the problem in the sense that it solves the consequences, instead of solving the causes, and I mean above all the problem with the Restitution Law, which the ruling coalition members were not satisfied with, so now it's trying to make this law right by actually correct what some coalition partners consider harmful, which is that they haven't met the precondition for being able to appear as someone seeking back property. That's what the law says. He's very badly written, inconsistent, mixed ideas, and even some members of the law have nothing to do with each other. In fact, it's only one thing that's clear is that we need to preserve the coalition and the government, and we don't even carry out a particular idea and achieve some goal by law itself. For example, because of the ambiguity, I will especially talk about what is defined in Article 2 of the Constitution, it may be that all members of the occupation forces who would gain all possible rights by this law, including employment, compensation, double duration for one year of work, special compensation, etc. Does anyone ask if Serbia has a duty, does it have the right to do this and does it have anything to defile those who believe they are damaged? No one took care of that. Also, in Article 2 I'll tell you that you haven't accepted the most ordinary assessment of the possible costs of such legal solutions. Whether all of them were mobilized by force or voluntarily in the occupation units, I am also talking about quinslins, so broad and inaccurately defined, that they could indeed report members of SS units or Ustasha units. The pressure of the countries in the environment, Hungary in particular, as well as some other aggressor states that have mobilized or received their minority army, have deliberately forgotten that it is forcing citizens of the occupied state to service a war crime. Was it the Serbian government's dare to forget when she defined this? We have tried to make there, I think, the greatest inaccuracy, which will create huge problems in this missing budget and what I say – whose sins we suffer and whether our children and future generations should suffer the sins of a government who wants to remain together with this broad definition, we have tried to correct the amendment, where we say – yes, but we need to investigate when it comes to killings or forced mobilization. So, it won't be possible, if you accept our amendment, to rehabilitate someone just because a crime has been committed against him without a criminal investigation, because that rehabilitation solution has been found to have been committed. Are we going to find the one who committed the crime and call it, punish it, seek compensation for the damage? The principle of repentance and apology and damages, because apology is not enough, cannot correct injustice, cannot repay damage and should be carried out fully consistently. With this law, you're trying to make things right from the Return Act, which we've been telling you about the amendments. If you had adopted them, there would be no need for such an unconstitutional, unconsistent law. Some parts of the law, believe it's not too wordful, literally from Serbia and the Serb people, are making some kind of criminals who are now apologizing and offering compensation to everyone who shot at them. Where is the end of the humiliation of a state, of our state and of the Serbian people? Everyone in life regrets or apologizes, not because he regrets the evil he has done, or very rarely for those reasons, but because he fears what might happen to him because of what he has done. For example, in Serbia, this law is a law that is brought under pressure, and in this sense, by committing alleged remorse, by creating preconditions for compensation for crimes committed, we are in fact committing a crime towards our own history, in one part, we are committing a crime against future generations and I don't know how you can in the same harmony to bring praise for the establishment of fiscal advice, which should take care of redistribution of costs to the present and future generation, and the adoption of such a law that will clearly create obligations that will not be served only by the pawnage, effort and burden of this generation. I repeat, an apology that has become fashion does not repair damage or undo injustice. When people apologize, they usually do it too late or just because they can't avoid it. We are witnessing these days as economic policy makers and those who rule for a decade back apologize for everything and everything, not because they really regret it, but only because they fear the punishment they will suffer in the elections. The reverse process of making budgets out of desire, instead of possibilities, of making rehabilitation laws for correcting the Restitution Act, has passed a law that has made it right, if you adopt it like this, we will have the right legal parlour. In Article 1 in point 2) to be deleted, because rehabilitation says, for actions done on the territory of the Republic of Serbia must be the obligation of the state on whose territory the store is made. Where do you get the right to impose on Serbia an obligation, that is, that Serbia gives itself the right to deal with events that occurred on other countries' territories if this is not an international, or interstate agreement. If you're telling me that you've settled this with a succession, I'm telling you that a succession that is supposed to be resolved in four days, although it's been renegotiated for a dozen years, has actually left many issues open and today unsettled from the right to the house, the apartment, the housing right, the right to live on your territory and to achieve a series of rights of pensions and everyone else. I'm saying this isn't solved by this kind of interstate agreement. In addition to respecting the principle of territorial jurisdiction, you must bear in mind a number of practical reasons. Evidence of the actions done is on the territory of other countries. How are you going to solve this? A provision that exists in this Article 2. The Republic of Serbia undertakes to compensate for the damage caused by these actions and provides a number of rights to rehabilitated persons on its burden, although no one claims it has anything to do with these events. What does that prove to be? At the same time, there may be a conflict with the laws and judicial decisions of another state. In doing so, you state as one of the reasons that persons had residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What time? This includes those who have the right to be denied out of Serbia, who have neither the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia nor who now have their residence in the Republic of Serbia, but who may have had their residence in the Republic of Serbia in some period. Remember that after World War II, a very large number of people from other republics were moved into Serbia and that a large number of people had their residence in some period and now the Republic of Serbia should take over a huge number of possible cases of rehabilitation of persons who have been done outside of Serbia, as well as any compensation obligations on that basis, and I said: pension internship, double compensation, special rights, etc. You have not granted this assembly any cost assessment, nor an explanation of why Serbia would assume such an obligation and why we would have an obligation to do so for the former Yugoslav republics at all. Did they do anything about it? It is pointless to prescribe as an additional condition for rehabilitation and that a decision depriving a person of rights for prohibited reasons is made "against the principles of the rule of law and generally accepted standards of human rights and freedom". It's enough, my lords, that it's about illegal reasons to take away your rights. If it stays the way you wrote it, it means that someone is allowed to take a life or another right just because it belonged to a nation or religion, if it is a respected formal procedure. Don't ask me to explain this. I'll just say - peacetime warfare, like nonsense and the possibility of this really happening. Item 3 must be deleted, because it is unnecessary specifically to prescribe that this law also applies to combatants of the People's Liberation War. Did you say it was general law? Why would they say that now? In position 5, you have prescribed that the Republic of Serbia is not responsible for the acts and actions of the occupation forces and that you are leaving out the quinspecies formation again. There is no reason for Serbia to be responsible for the procedures of those formations that were in the service of the occupation forces. Many colleagues also spoke very meaningfully, wisely, and eventually said they would support the law. I congratulate them on that consistency, but I also say that one of the most controversial is this particular Article 2. If Article 2 is consistently interpreted, it is concluded that all members of the occupation forces and quinspeak formation, regardless of nationality, are entitled to rehabilitation, in a way that would give them all the rights under this law. When it comes to the members of the occupation forces, you have not stated at all which persons, i.e. whose citizens, and yet with the literal interpretation of this provision alone, can conclude that all members of the foreign armed forces, who are citizens of these aggressor states, have been deprived of liberty or suffered any damage. Read more carefully and you will see that we are right to express such an attitude. The restrictions you have provided for Article 1 cannot be applied, because from the media we might suspect that there is an intention for you as a pronoun to settle the issue of possible rehabilitation of the work of citizens who were forced to mobilize during the war, but it was done in a completely wrong and almost impossible way. It is not possible to prescribe the right to rehabilitate, i.e. the release of the responsibilities of those persons, as the current Criminal Code in Article 422 provides that the service of Serbian citizens in the enemy army and other armed forms is a criminal offence punishable by 15 years in prison. Joining the enemy armed forces is a classic crime known from ancient times and always punished. On the other hand, forcing citizens to serve in the enemy armed forces is a war crime against the civilian population, under Article 372(1). Criminal code and international law. With all this in mind, the Republic of Serbia has no obligation to make compensations for the damage suffered by the members of the occupation forces due to the deprivement of freedom and other acts, it is already the damages of the state which forced those persons to serve in the armed forces. The proposal stipulates that the right to rehab does not have persons who have committed war crimes. But it's too narrow a definition. War crimes are just some of the crimes the occupation forces have committed. This involves only crimes against humanity and international law. For example, genocide does not belong to a war crime, although, as a rule, these crimes are most often committed in the war. It is known that there have also been genocide in Serbia's territory, as well as other crimes in the area of crime against humanity against international law, such as the extremely brutal treatment of wounded and prisoners of war, the destruction of cultural goods, against legal killing, the wounding of enemies and others. So I ask you to prescribe that the right to rehab, we have submitted such an amendment, applies only to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been forced to mobilize, provided they have not committed crimes and only to the work of the service in the enemy army and to help the enemy. Also, on the basis of rehabilitation, you need to prescribe that only the right to return of the seized property can be obtained. Is that fair? It is totally unacceptable that the Republic of Serbia pays the members of the occupation force compensation and the rights to demand from other countries, and those countries are trying to transfer the burden of damages to the Republic of Serbia, which was in fact victims of aggression. In particular, I mean captures, detention of prisoners of war, in accordance with the rules and customs of war. That part was completely forgotten, unprocessed, whether it was intentional or accidental, I don't know. Such a provision will result in a diminishing of the fight against occupiers and a contribution to the fight against fascism by the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if it's the invention of some genius lawyer, individual, authority, who decided to sacrifice the reputation of Serbia, sacrifice the history of this country, I don't know from what interests, but it can really be a serious consequence of this law. The remarks we have specifically on Articles 9, 17, 22, 27, etc., will not allow me to explain everything, but I will say for example. If you had adopted the SNS amendment when we talked about restitution, only about a period within which you could claim compensation, you would now have no reason to write a member who is in fact completely out of line with the Restitution Act. A two-year period has been prescribed since the entry into force of the application for return of property, but this law prescribes a five-year period for the submission of rehabilitation applications. Now how are these people who have this deadline for five years to exercise their right if, within two years, that deadline is practically deemed to be expired? This is a little bit about not meeting the deadlines for you as a law, but for someone it's actually an unfair disabling to exercise the right to rehab. How many major consequences will you have if you do not seriously listen to SNS arguments by the members we are about to talk about, I would not be willing to imagine at this point, but I believe that every citizen of the Serbian state, regardless of the nation, religion, determination, race, should and must feel useful and integrated member of society. He can and he will have the opportunity, the right and the chance only if he realizes that the state in which he lives needs to repent, forgive and compensate only for what he is guilty of internationally recognised rules and for righteousness, the human human being who is in place everywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63360	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we received the first version of the Rehabilitation Bill in the SRS parliamentary group in the beginning of September when we were preparing for that law, we took the view that, in fact, such a law should not have been passed at all, not because we are against rehabilitation, because we are certainly for the rehabilitation of persons who have been persecuted as victims above all of Tito's communist regime, but when you decided to pass that law, we intervened with a certain number of amendments and that all amendments to the SRS were accepted, we actually had a good Rehabilitation Act. Why did we think the law wasn't supposed to be passed? For the simple reason that the Rehabilitation Act was passed in 2006. The problem is that this law has not been applied and no one can guarantee that this problem will not be with this law, because it has long been a practice in this Parliament that laws are only stamped, passed, and that they actually remain a dead letter on paper. It's also good that the government has accepted, they've obviously read our amendments to that first version of the law and they've accepted one number of amendments and that's good. But the problem is that you were in some coalition collapse, so you had to satisfy, you actually faced two problems. One problem is about the EU's order, so you wrote to us in an explanation that this law must be passed, and on the other hand you had coalition partners who were open and public here when it came to the Law on Returning Assets, that is, the Law on Restitution was their position and announced and they were told then that what they wanted through this law would actually be regulated through the Rehabilitation Act. That's, of course, too bad. You say the law is adopted by an urgent procedure because failure to adopt the law would have adverse consequences for the exercise of the rights of rehabilitated persons, since the law provides for a greater number of rights, etc., and yet you say that the adoption of this law is one of the priorities in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia. As for this first reason where you stated that the adoption of this law would have adverse consequences for the exercise of the rights of rehabilitated persons, this is hypocritical by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the simple reason that nothing seemed to have been done that the law adopted in 2006 and, I repeat, that the law applied to many people who were to be rehabilitated would have been rehabilitated. For months, media has been talking and some representatives of the majority in this coalition government have been talking for months about General Dragoljub Mihailovic. His grave is wanted, so he's looking for the name of the street after him. The SRS otherwise asked for this bridge to be named after Dragoljub Mihailovic, we had an official proposal in the City Assembly in that sense. Here is a question for everyone – why is Draža Mihailovic not rehabilitated to this day? In January of this year, why was the procedure for rehabilitation in the First Basic Court suspended indefinitely? Who guarantees us that such a bad law as this one today will also not extend all these necessary rehabilitations indefinitely? We have also put a number of amendments on this proposal and, of course, we will talk about them in part today, and in part in the discussion of details, but now I am talking more about these principled reasons, which is why we think you don't need this law, and especially that the law is bad. You and this law are passing, as you wrote in your explanation, to meet the EU's requirements. Indeed, it is more intolerable to pass in this House, through the will of the assembly majority and on a proposal from the government, a law that meets someone else's demands. We ask you when will you start in parliament to pass laws that are being passed for the sake of Serbian citizens? Let's write in an explanation once -- this law is passed in the interest of Serbian citizens. You know very well that Serbia's entry into the EU is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. Today, 54% of Serbian citizens claim it, and I guess that should be respected. The fact that you made some promises, etc., you really have to solve it yourself, but not through the backs of Serbian citizens and beyond the will of Serbian citizens. What is also one of the principled remarks that we have on this law? It's inadmissible, and when I spoke about the Restitution Act, we drew your attention to it, it's unacceptable to associate rehabilitation with restitution. The law on the return of property, i.e. the restitution from the SRS position, is opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and there was no place for it to be found in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and, as far as we are concerned, there was no need for it to be passed. On the first occasion, we'll put that law out of force. You won't apply it anyway, there won't be a consequence of his passing. But it is, therefore, inadmissible for you to bind the rehabilitation even in the return of property, to bind it to restitution. You've regulated the restitution, as you've regulated, we're just reminding now that you couldn't pass that law, among other things, that all the persons who were taken away from the property that had been taken away from them under those applicable laws, which, by the way, were never put out of force. Rehabilitation is necessary for persons who have been victims of regime persecution and certainly need these people, this small number of survivors, and then, of course, to the heirs of those who did not survive that all the rights that were thus taken away from them and that they needed, of course, to return and illegally seized property. What is going through this law, of course, is full of inaccuracy and will open up the possibility of major abuses in its application, so it will happen that they will not be able to be rehabilitated members of Chetnik Draja Mihajlovic, who were in fact historically victims of the persecution of the regime at the time, but have therefore opened up the possibility of rehabilitating open enemies, criminals who committed crimes during World War II against Serbian citizens in Serbia. You have opened this law the possibility that the property will be returned to both the Serbian people, who have committed crimes indisputably, the history is full of concrete information about it, all of them, based on this law that you will probably adopt if you succeed in providing the majority, since it is becoming more difficult for you lately and while we have discussed this law in the morning, I have received one text from one of the Chitlak family heirs. This gentleman asked me that on behalf of this family, who died in a huge number at Easter 1941, when otherwise thousands of Serbs were sent to camps in Sarvar, Barac, Kanjiz and many died of hunger and beatings, from disease, etc., the need for the case of his family to be mentioned at today's meeting to distract the ruling majority, that it should not happen to adopt this law in this form and that it is necessary to adopt the amendment of the SRS that solves this problem. You are in Article 1, and in that first version of the bill, we have had a serious objection to the member first, and you have then predicted that this law regulates rehabilitation and the legal consequences of rehabilitation for persons who are for political, religious, national or ideological reasons deprived of life, deprived of freedom or other rights, and then you said, since World War II. We have then amended you to draw attention that it is necessary for these rights to be realised from the beginning of World War II because in the course of the war there was also a large number, above all of the Serbs, Chetniks who were killed in the framework of this political retaliatory. You have now, this Article 1st paragraph 1 written in a way that you have not limited the beginning since the application of this law but you have said that it applies until the date of entry into force of this law. This is also a bad solution. You may think or at least pretend to think that in this period and these past 11 years and today there is no political persecution. There is, if you adopt this law and some people come to power after you who think differently, let's say, rehabilitate the family of Slobodan Milosevic, who is being prosecuted absolutely by law and past any court decision. Based on what, let's say Free Home story in public that they will take over the house of Slobodan Milosevic? Based on what? Are you going to close that story with this law? How will someone who comes after you rehabilitate Slobodan Milosevic and bring his remains to the Alley of the greats where he belongs? How can you close this law this way? Are you aware that SRS President Vojislav Seselj has been detained in The Hague for nine years? Isn't that a violation of his human rights? Is this not his political persecution, and we remind him that the indictment against him was written because Djindjic asked Carla Del Ponte to do so. So, pure political persecution and what is happening in The Hague is a pure political process. Here is a reminder that he is, even though he is nine years in The Hague, now that he is in the final proceedings, that he is in no position to prepare his defence. Why? Because they don't allow him to communicate privilegedly with his legal advisors. It is a scandal that Vojislav Seselj did not experience even at a time when he was persecuted in Tito's communist regime and when he was imprisoned in the Zenic Casamat and was then allowed to have privileged communication with the defenders of the time. Do you think there is no room and there will be no place to rehabilitate Vojislav Seselj, I am not talking about The Hague, it will be a special story, I am talking about the internal policy and the persecution of DOS that Vojislav Seselj has experienced. Do you know or pretend that you do not know what political persecution is and not what the ruling coalition is talking about today, what political persecutions are happening in local self-governments? Do you know how many mobbings there are in local self-governments on the party line? Do you know how many people were fired because they are not members of a party that is the government in a particular local self-government? Do you think that's not happening anymore? Of course, it's been going on as much as possible over the last 11 years, and it's happening today. So how do you think these people experience rehabilitation if you close this law and this Article 1 to apply it until the day of entry, its entry into force? Of course, there are other members to whom we have intervened with the amendments and we hope that you will consider these amendments, if you really intend to pass a law that will make sense, which will primarily be applicable, and not only to remain a dead letter on paper and that will prevent abuses in its application. On Article 1, we intervened with several amendments, and I said what is most characteristic, we also deleted Article 2 which fully devises the adoption of this law and the malicious interpretation of this Article 2 could happen that those who were most persecuted in the communist regime, and these are members of the Chetnik Draja Mihajlovic, that they are not actually rehabilitated. What I mentioned, which is particularly dangerous, has been contained in the last two positions of Article 5. A proposal for this law where, as I have already said, you have broken what you promised some coalition partners in the process of adopting the Law on Restitution and where you have allowed those who were open to the enemy side of World War II. Many were members of the SS Division, involved in that ice-flashing of Serbs in 1942, and they will be rehabilitated under this law, which we think is absolutely unacceptable. How did we estimate that the law would enable abuse? For example, here is Article 12 where you predicted that a free legal aid under the law could be granted in the rehabilitation process. This is from our point of view simply unacceptable. What does that mean, who's going to be the one to assess whether someone should be granted free legal aid or not? This is a specific law and cannot be brought under the Law on Legal Assistance to take care of the social threat of a person seeking legal aid. This is a law that is passed in order to resolve some historical injustices and then this law in every respect must respect both specificities and all rehabilitation procedures, those that are in line, we think primarily of the SRS' views and what we have spoken and written through the amendments, must have free real help. You should know that if, eventually, the living person who is going to seek rehabilitation is that they are old persons who are 80, 90 or more years old and you know well how long you've brought these people, especially because they didn't have the right to retire, which they and their descendants were persecuted in jobs, if they could even get jobs, etc. Where are these people gonna be able to pay for legal aid? Nothing in a better situation is their successors either. You predicted that sublaws for the application of this law would bring you in 60 days. It's, again, proof that you're just playing with people who should be rehabilitated. If this law in that first version was still in parliament on 2 September, is it possible that the competent ministry did not do anything to prepare a sublegal act because it was already three months ago, or more than that deadline that you provided for the adoption of sublegal acts? We note this in order to draw attention to how unserious you are and how serious you really are, and how much this law has nothing to do with sound intelligence or the interests of Serbian citizens, but it is just another one in a series of those you have to bring in order to achieve possible Serbia's EU bid, and we are very proud of our idea that Serbia must not enter the EU, today supports 54% of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63362	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for word that they are using their rights? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the ZES, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the New Serbia MP group, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the SNS parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group, and we move on to the part of the session when the right to the word has its people's MPs, and in order and reports for a word to be searched in principle on the Rehabilitation Law proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63363	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, this is one of the most important laws a society can pass. At the same time, it faces one of the most important values, which is justice. So it's about justice. Someone will say – there is no justice and usually it is relativized, but society would turn into an ordinary pack if there were no people who kept insisting on justice, no matter how difficult it was to come. The Rehabilitation Act is one attempt to get as close to justice as possible. However, this approach should not immediately make us happy that we have reached our goal and that all injustices have been corrected, but it is important to strive to correct them. There are several kinds of injustices, but the one that is the greatest, it comes from the highest authority and that's the state. It exists in the theory of the famous phenomenon of so-called the state's cause. The state reason is when the state sacrifices an individual and does injustice, and then somehow the state manages, individuals get hurt, and in such a situation, it's always worth more to be a executioner than a victim, because the state usually protects the executioner, and sometimes the victims are remembered, and sometimes completely forgotten. It's an old phenomenon and it's true of history and of all societies. I once cited one of the first examples of the use of a state cause in relation to another type of crime, so-called. A man's crime. In the ancient world, to avoid herds and hordes that as a manipulum had the usual rape of women when they entered a country or a city, then some cities came to their senses, and they singled out twenty girls into a temple outside of the city so that this army would be satisfied, it would not enter the city. It was an example when the state sacrificed an individual in its own defense. During history, we had it all the time. When once called for a state reason, and once it was a state reason, an individual was most often killed. Here we have various types of crime and various kinds of injustice. We had a war, a revolution, and whatever you want, and that's where the motives of terror were replaced. Some were warring, when killing a war enemy meant no crime but was considered a patriotic act and were won for it. After that, it became a class enemy who was also meant to represent one obstacle to the progress of society, the state is ours for that reason, and then the class enemies died. When these kinds of enemies disappeared, they moved on to idea enemies, imaginary enemies, and to each other's reckonings. There was always some explanation behind it. However, when the Rehabilitation Act is passed, we bring it, on the one hand, because of the victims, because of the justice that I have mentioned as one of the greatest values of every political community, and on the other hand for future generations, that what we have done once in history is not repeated, that the perpetrators of injustice and crime are simply shamed or branded so as not to lag on a crime in the future. That's the real point of rehab. The states have their biographies, as well as the individuals. As individuals want to sort of wash or correct their biographies, so do the states. We recently made a decision in the English Parliament condemning the English state for its slave trade, that is, by catching blacks in Africa and sending them to America. Someone's gonna say it's pointless, what anyone's got out of it now, but somewhere, there's gonna be a conviction of one of those things about how a man treated a man, even if it was three centuries ago. That's the only way mankind can move forward. We meet here with a variety of these injustices and various forms of rehabilitation. One previous law was quite confusing, something was mixed up and not useful enough and little was done in terms of real rehabilitation. Maybe for most people this rehabilitation doesn't mean in any material or I don't know any sense, anything and most people are dead, many of them don't have heirs, or they've already aged, but it has a significant message for the future, that we won't have it anymore. I felt it was important to separate two things and this was foreseen by the so-called court and this legal decision. This mentions the legal rehabilitation under which, as such, they were non-democratic or non-human, and then all those who came under the influence of that law are considered innocent, or rehabilitated and judicial, where the process is involved, and now there is one difference. Often there were farces, and in this administration we also have a series of large farces. For example, everyone who was sent to Goli Island had an administrative sentence, but no one saw any administrative judge, or judge, or anyone who was involved in the case. One single seal of the second Belgrade city district was hit on all those solutions and people were sent to the camp. The problem was that there was full self-will police to create concentration camps. Today in concentration camps, there's a lot of research, there's a Council of Europe resolution that lights it up, the whole thing, and in the good part, it's been late here. My earlier idea was to simply make a decision to the assembly in which it is said, this so-called regulation, that it can be sent to hard physical labor and to a concentration camp each based on the opinion of the police, that it is nothing and the whole problem is automatically over. Whoever wants to sue the state later, that's his business. However, there was one solution that it still goes through the so-called legal rehabilitation. Now what's going on here? The opening member is told here that those who have been punished for accepting the Resolution of Informbiro. This formulation is not entirely true. There were only one-fifth of people on the Golom Island who declared the Resolution of the Information Bureau, and four-fifths did not. Does this mean that they later brought in one label, one explanation of a regulation or not? It's just saying that they're so-called. The administrative penalties were pure improvisation, as if someone had glued any badge to you. That must be said, not to accept one order, that it allegedly adhered to some regulation, to bring some administrative penalties, which was not the case. However, we have a special case here that I want to look back on. There was no crime involving the following situation, and let every citizen imagine that they invited him to a party meeting of a closed type, very discreet, and there they read some letters and documents and, let's say -- here, what do you think, encouraged him to debate. After that, people went straight to prison, without any judge or anything, they suddenly found themselves in a camp. Can you imagine such a cynicism that someone invites members to a very confidential conversation, encourages them to debate, and then arrests them. But to make cynicism bigger, it happened in late June 1948. The Fifth Congress of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia took place at the end of July. At the Fifth Congress, he held a referendum by Josip Broz Tito, which ended with the words, "Long live the great leader and teacher of humanity Joseph Visarionovich Stalin, lived the Soviet Union, guarantee of peace and freedom of humanity." Well, the second referendum was held by Cardellj, which also ends in the same formula: "Long live the great Stalin, lived the great Soviet Union". So did Rankovic, so did Milovan Gilas. During that time, students or anyone who had been asked something at the meeting said – perhaps we should have gone to Bucharest, to see what was going on, that was already in the camp at the time. That kind of cynicism isn't recorded in history. That's what you have to say. That after years, until they kissed Tito and Khrushchev, these people were treated like traitors. What have they betrayed, who, where? All the people who were on the naked island, one part, that little one because he said something at the meeting, a much bigger part, which he didn't say if he talked to his friends about it. There's not a single flyer who's written by informers, there's not a single Informationbiro organization, there's not a single Informationbiro action, there's only part of the conversation at a party meeting where people are invited and they haven't told about their friend, since it's been discussed, it's been discussed. It was due overnight to make a turning point from the splendor of the Soviet Union and Russia to complete ideolatry, and overnight vice versa. At a school in Montenegro, there was a big sign – Lower Mother Russia. They were supposed to be against it, and somewhere they weren't, and they thought they could write something like that and say it. At that time when there was this concentration camp by the matrix of the camps as they were in Russia, with the additions of the special sadistic, which our police were fostering, the West didn't take much into account, they said – okay, those are some that might be for Russia, we won't make any remarks to Tito about it. That's it. That's it. The Russians had even less reason, because they had their pockets full of nuts for more of their camps, so they had to keep quiet about it. These men held two, three, four, almost some by the age of five, came out, but with the brand of traitors and nursed all the time for 20, 30 years one picture of them being people who betrayed the country. Suddenly internationalists became great nationalists and patriots, and now I ask - who betrayed? What did the students or the students betray? What crime is that, where, when, what? With that propaganda, you could go to the app if someone sang a Russian song at the bar. Now we're going the other way – racing who's going to sing those songs. Things have changed, but some people have become victims of it. It was supposed to be done in a simple way. But it seems that it's always better to be, as I said earlier, a executioner than a victim. Now the stars of such a monstrosity concentration camp are drifting. They have become media very important, attractive persons, who speak publicly of their brutality and witnesses. The other people are looking at it together – what's going on? So, as a society, we must have enough power, and this is what the UN Charter obliges us to do, and the resolutions of the Council of Europe to do evil, totalitarian regimes, which have been done beyond the legal order, usually or with the help of various regulations of political and abuse done. That's got to light up. There's no one here to take care of the big expenses anymore. There are no more than five percent of the people who survived the camp, and those who were before that, who were victims of the persecution of class enemies, already say so absolutely no among the living. It's not a big expense. And in any case, it is one moral expense, which is the strength to face the continuity that every country wants to make, so that in some way it makes us guilty—so it was nice to live at that time, it was nice, someone did, but someone didn't. We have to make the laws apply to everyone, so that those who have suffered without any legality or right have suffered, must say publicly, so that it doesn't happen in the future. So we have this problem, after what happened, we have some social consequences. The result was a separation from the Soviet bloc. We did not use this advantage to integrate into Europe in the meantime, but rather to integrate into Asia and Africa, but this separation has some positive effects. But the negative effects were the full power of the police, both in the party and in the state. The police, and those investigators of the naked island, became ambassadors. Here, he was your Ambassador to Sweden in the most democratic country. They became ambassadors, became directors of foreign-trade enterprises, became power everywhere, they decided everything. She stopped every debate, only the unsuspecting people discussed something at party meetings, the others remembered how whoever was asking, was something, what was wrong with him the next day. So these are some things that, although fortunately today, we live in other times when this new generation seems absolutely amazing that something like that was possible. But you never know what a crisis or anything can bring humanity back to some great temptation to sin over human rights and freedom. That's the key question. That is why it is necessary to develop this awareness that a crime has been committed, regardless, someone could have had some merit, it is all right, we sometimes forgive it, we say – behold, Milos Obrenović was a wise ruler, etc., and he committed terrible crimes, where in every court today he would have to answer for these things. It's been a while, but let's give them the light they were, and some of the personalities they were. Regardless of all the idolatries with Tito and still his lovers here, it must be said he was one of the dictators of the Europeans, he had concentration camps and deals with his opponents or those he suspected, liquidated in various ways in collaboration with the Comintern many staff of the Communist Party. So four things are lit today, standing, and they have to be present, no fill-up with history, and some idolatry can't stop it. We must build a society in which a man will feel secure, that the laws are safe. There's an accident, of course, that he paid dearly for socialism, which is already somewhere in some cornerstones of socialist theory or Marx's theory, under which the law was reduced to ideology. So there was one form of ideological consciousness, so then, the right was defined as, to the degree of law, raised the will of the ruling class. If the ruling class can raise its will to the extent of the law, then there, rightly, the story is over. That's why these laws seemed so arbitrary, losing that main meaning of the law that they had some substance of justice in them, and then these crimes were covered by supposed regulations and alleged justice that wasn't. Fortunately, humanity is still sober and realizes that your freedom deficits and rights deficits cost you a lot. Today, mankind is making progress in spreading freedom and the great reflectors are throwing light on every legal norm, because it affects people. That's why this law is important, first of all, as a social incentive to light up crimes and justice cannot be done in that sense, because if I was innocent, then Capicic was guilty, because if he's not guilty, it's my fault. But that's not how far justice usually comes, there are no instruments to do it, but that's why the public has to react, to say, well, don't boast that your hands are bloody to your shoulder, because you loved Joseph Broz. That's not enough reason, so sit home and shut up. That's the most you can do. So, there's going to be a lot of trouble in the trial. We forget, we say - court, so we raised a little bit like that to a higher level, but there were also court farces and mounted processes as much as you want. So, and there it is necessary, of course, to make great efforts to bring this matter to trial. There were many prejudices towards national minorities, innocent women, members of other nations who participated as associates of the Troika Pact, Hitler, etc. That collective guilt struck, a terrible, completely innocent world. All these things have to find their place and qualify exactly and say – if we want to make progress as a society, some progress. Of course, we also need a normal democratic debate on this. The problems raised here to raise the conflict now -- partisans and Chetniks, etc., should have another dimension, which is the defence of the rights and justice of the truth. All these ideological delusions, like this or something, we leave history, and facts should be facts. Somewhere there must be evidence and the fact that someone has sinned both on the interests of the state and the rights, justice, etc., because there were crimes during World War II. Also, the motive should be here, the desire for justice, and that no one should be sheltered in any way, that history has forgotten it, because it will come back, every time, at any other opportunity that we can meet. What can be brought in as a declaration, today everyone has done it. The state reason was also used in World War II to create a camp. The Americans had camps for the Japanese. All the solid and loyal Japanese in California found themselves in a camp after an attack on Pearl Harbor. However, after a long time, there was also a desire to correct this injustice, so Congress made a decision on the condemnation of the concentration camp, on this collective retribution, and there was compensation, etc. Like I said, the state has to clean up its biography and when it calls to the state for a reason. Otherwise, we had concentration camps. Some, such modern anti-communists, immediately tie it to Lenin, and we had concentration camps from the Roman Empire, we had in World War I. Austria has built concentration camps for Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. During World War II, we also had concentration camps everywhere. I have come to an effort to seek more seriously and persistently for justice, to have our laws so pure in the legal equality of people, and to have some humanity in them, that they don't throw at anyone a stain of doubt or danger, or some discrimination that will come back tomorrow. However, there is another field, something lighter but also extremely discriminatory, and that is the question so-called. applied moral political similarities. In the 1970s, at a time when the world was breathing democratically, they passed laws in Yugoslavia on moral political similarities. At first, it was only one group of professors of the Faculty of Philosophy, who accused Tito of not being Marxists or something, self-rule enough and then passed laws. In that law on education, it was said that no one who was not politically-like could be a professor of the university. Then they expanded it, so it even reached primary schools. In this way people have been deprived of their professions for years. We now have one case that is interesting for the Serbian Parliament. Serbia's assembly brought in 1975, in January, the law, some kind of "ex specialis", completely pointless, that the Serbian Parliament voted that eight professors of the Faculty of Philosophy could no longer be professors of the Faculty of Philosophy. Nowhere in the Constitution was that possible, for the simple reason he was setting up and firing only college, or university council. The congregation had nothing to do with it. What happened? Now the congregation was supposed to issue a solution that made us no longer teachers. Then some lawyer remembered, but what are we going to write as a legal remedy? Someone has to complain to the one who's been fired. But the congregation can't complain. What are we gonna do? He says-- nothing, you don't have to give them any solution. So there's never been a solution to whether or not someone stopped being a professor. I came back after 15 years, like from my official trip. All the documents were collected by the special police. You can't find a pension, not a single solution that you've been anywhere. The most vulgar usurp of police and total lawlessness. Serbia's assembly was supposed to have enough courage, and those initiatives had a philosophy college, which did not recognise the decision. After that, he kept the congregation, that the decision was void. The president of the assembly resigned, and then Sima Cirkovic resigned as a dean and the students were on strike. That decision has been written down today. Shame on the assembly that it exists. One hand-lifting is said to be zero because it was anti-constitutional. Best of all, and the Yugoslav Constitutional Court said it wasn't constitutional, so Tito said - you don't have to talk about it now, it doesn't matter, forget it. So there was a lot of lawlessness. It didn't look like a legal order, anywhere when little needed to endanger the existing government. There have also been cases where people have lost their professions, and in particular this has developed as one good method. We have something like this today, someone mentioned party similarities here, but I'd say it's a little bit lighter here, because it's being placed here by some party membership, but there's been a loss of business, there's been even scarier. In any case, we need to make these competitions public and make these stories of legal privileges that violate the legal order tend. I believe that our society has the potential to understand, faced with the undemocratic forms of its history, we often boast only of what is positive in our history, but not much is learned, but it only idealizes and makes illusions. There's a lot more to learning about mistakes, what's not right in history. To use another example for a state reason, "Black Hand", which committed its timely coup and killed the king, so it was considered a patriotic act, a non-democrat king was removed, although Serbia had a problem, so when he later assassinated Ferdinand in Sarajevo, although he was an Austrian citizen, an Austrian-Hungarian, even though he killed Ferdinand, an Austrian-Hungarian heir, Austria declared war on Serbia. Serbia had this complex about whether or not it was guilty, what the Black Hand was doing or not, and they organised the Black Hand process in Thessaloniki in 1917 and killed Apis and comrades. In 1953 was the process for the rehabilitation of Apis, I don't know if most of them here know, Apis was rehabilitated in court, that the process organised by regent Aleksandar with Pasic was staged. Then it was a state reason, that thing was forgotten, and that whole thing ended. The issue of state reasons is therefore very important and the theory of liberalism is precisely why it insists on individual rights, an individual who must not be so easily sacrificed to state interests, because the greatest possible abuse is the sacrifice of individuals for the benefit of the state. This relationship between the individual and the state must be such that in the individual there is a source of that will to be established by the state and the state to care for him, not to sacrifice him for its current local foreign policy or any other reason. It's the only way we can make progress towards freedom and towards a more just society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63364	It was used 28 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63365	The respected chairman, ministers, fellow MPs, the Rehabilitation Law is one of the most significant laws in the set of laws that corrects historical injustice. The Serbian Renewal Movement has been insisting for 20 years on the adoption of a law of this kind that would allow descendants and those who were killed during World War II to be compensated, to be paid compensation for mental pain and to experience a moral satisfaction because decades ago they were marked as some kind of traitors or people who worked against the state. It is very important to note that this disproportion in the lives of those who have had privileges, who have used them for decades in good positions, in the top houses of Dedinj, with their sons and daughters, in a top-of-the-line life, to spend their former life, unlike members of the Ravnogor movement, members of ibeovci, who were spoken of by Professor Micunovic, and that is something that is unacceptable from the point of view of a democratic state and state that wants to correct everything that was not right during the totalitarian regime of Josip Broz. I would also like to explain why the bill, which was due to be loud in the Assembly some month ago, was withdrawn from the assembly procedure, to tell you, for the sake of the public and other MPs, the SPO insisted that the new bill could not reduce the legal framework of the existing law regarding the time interval for which rehabilitation was made possible, so now this bill, in which the SPO objections were incorporated, is acceptable to the SPO because it does not mention the date of the release of the place by place, nor April 6th. I'll explain why. Bogdan Lončar and Milenko Obrakovic, the murdered gendarmes in the White Church, who was killed by Zikica Jovanovic the Spanish, and then robbed, were rehabilitated under the existing law, and according to a bill that was withdrawn from the assembly procedure, this could not have happened. Furthermore, the bill on rehabilitation, which was withdrawn from the assembly procedure, also made it impossible for the members of the Ravnog Movement to be rehabilitated, thus effectively suspending the Law on the Rights of People's Liberation Warfighters and the Law on Equality of Rights of Members of the Montenegrin and Partisan Movement. So, the bill, if it had been supported by this parliament, would have been about Professor Micunovic's joy, probably just the ibeovs. It is also very important to talk about national reconciliation only if the truth and only truth come out of the World War II period. We are witnessing that in 2011 mass graves are being unearthed in Serbia, in which there are people who were killed from 1944 to 1946, just because they thought otherwise. About 100,000 people are found in these mass graves. No one was responsible for those crimes. Let me give you an example of how executions were done. Lists were made here in Belgrade at Maglai Street. As long as the brutality of this totalitarian regime went best to testify if Milan Milanovic, for example, took that name and last name, should be someone who would be sent to Banjic, and then shot, and if there is another Milanović, and if by mistake they bring the wrong one to Banjic, and then they shoot, they write on those lists -- it doesn't matter, and he was a traitor. I hope this will not be the only law that has passed this assembly in order to bring national reconciliation and correct historical injustices. What's more important, for the rehabilitation to be complete, is the opening of secret files. These files contain the truth about tracking, about accidents, about losing rights, about losing jobs, about depriveing lives of certain people who were just different ideological definitions. Until all persons who participated in the follow-up with mortal or tragic consequences are brought to justice, we cannot talk about Serbia as a democratic country, and especially what, here are many MPs who were still involved in the campaign and were given the confidence of Serbian citizens to exercise power, especially since one of the main items in DOS promises was the opening of secret police files. Recently, files were opened in Bulgaria, and several hundred diplomats and several ministers were found to be in the co-operation network of their secret police and were done after democratic changes. So, democratic ministers. We would be naive if we thought that something like this could not happen in Serbia, that in our state structures there were people who would be marked as secret police informants and then lustrations away from work. I can tell you that they are also the biggest obstacle on Serbia's European path. To them, the situation in which Serbia is located, the state of chaos, which can be produced, and the return of Serbia to the chaos of the 1990s, is what brings happiness. Every accident by Serbia is their own happiness and their personal benefit. Resolution 1481 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has defined and called on parliaments of all former communist countries to condemn the crimes of former totalitarian communist regimes. I think that Serbia will have to do something like that on the road towards the EU, because most of the countries that have had this experience, this history, this history, this past, have done it. One of the foundations of the SPO programme is the Rehabilitation Act. We will, of course, vote for him. We believe that there are shortcomings, especially in the work of confiscation, because it is still a judicial decision that the Rehabilitation Act should be corrected, resolved or repealed. There's no need for confiscation to enter the restitution matter. However, we will vote in favour of this law, believing that this is a good way and a good basis for historical injustices of documents and national and ideological differences to be reconciled. I will only add that the Law on the rights of NOR fighters, for which the SPO is the most responsible adopted in this Assembly, clearly defines who are members of NOR. So these are members of the Ravnogorje Movement, members of the Yugoslav Army in the country, besides members of the Partizan Movement. It defines all those who participated in the NOR from 17 April to 15 May 1945 to have the right to a Montenegrin or Partizan monument. Partizanska could not, because there were no Partisan decrees at the time, so this controversy about the day of the uprising in Serbia is too high, because the day of the uprising is defined by law. If the law states that members of the NOR can gain their privileges, which entered the war on April 17, 1941, then it is quite logical that they had to fight someone. If they fought and resisted the occupier, then the day was also up in Serbia on April 17th 1941. Not to get into the details, I think we've exhausted this subject enough, that from all angles, we've analyzed it well and looked at it from all sides. What I'm saying is that the Department of Justice, too, in the very creation of this law, has had the tax to accept all those objections from the people who deal with this matter and the people whose matter is in their political parties' program. I think we have come to a law that will be acceptable and that will finally be adopted in parliament. So, we think that this is the first step towards democratisation of Serbian society, that there is a need to open files, and then lustrate all those who deserve lustration, and that in this way we will live in a more democratic country in some future, which will reject all the legacy of the totalitarian communist regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63366	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63367	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the world rests on an unwavering human faith in justice, truth and faith that every injustice and violence will come to an end and that justice and truth must prevail. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that in this too, and in our society, people often and easily play with these sacred words of the Serbian people, such as freedom, justice, truth, patriotism, countryism, and that these sacred words of our language are being misused for cheap political points, to be certified, to carry out the inflation of these most sacred concepts that have caused millions of people in our people. I'm sorry that only after 11 years of freedom have we passed the Rehabilitation Act. I'm sorry that we haven't passed a law on opening a file, that we don't have a full lustration law, and I'm sorry that the innocent blood has been crying out for justice for decades, that we in this room aren't saying something that someone sent us out of Europe and something is asking us to do. I'm sorry that some of our political opponents don't understand that most of the people sitting here in front of the ZES coalition, unfortunately, speak from their own tragic experience. We're not talking about something that someone convinced us. Professor Micunovic says what he survived, Natasa Vukovic can talk about what her grandfather Dragic Joksimovic, lawyer Dragoljuba Mihailovic, Nenad Konstantinovic could talk about the loss of his family, and I could tell you that the heroes of the 10th and 12th infantry regiments, who broke through the Thessaloniki front, ended. Before I say anything on this subject, I have a duty to make one historic reminder, because of those who earn, and who do not understand how those sacred words of our language, such as justice, freedom and truth, have been hurt. For all those who are supporters of the Serbian democratic tradition theory, unfortunately, I have words of disappointment, which are based on facts. What does the Serbian democratic tradition look like and where are the roots of political reckonings, such ruthless political reckonings in Serbia? Since Serbia's liberation from the Turks, the entire two centuries have suffered people in this country fighting for the ideals of freedom and democracy, for the right to vote, word and thought. In doing so, these people who were victims never denied the right to suffer by their political opponents, either theoretically or practically. For centuries, Serbia's political life has been marked by fierce conflicts. Since the day of the uprising, police and armed forces have been used to maintain personal authority, have been used for political reckonings, and political opponents have been qualified not only as state enemies who need to be released from political life, but as the worst possible traitors to be released from life in general. Recitals of such political culture, unfortunately, survived until the dawn of the 21st century. And today, there are people in this room, and whoever doesn't trust me, let him look at the library and the stenographic notes, which would ban the opinion, which some call traitors, patriots themselves. And today, there are people in this room who believe that what they think is absolute and unit truth. I say once again, who doesn't trust me, let him look at the stenographic notes and the words that have been spoken. Whoever forgets what history says, let him look at historical facts. The first victims of persecution in Serbia were those who opposed Karadjordje, then Milos Obrenovic, just to remind Peter Dobrnjec, Milenko Stojkovic. When Karadjordju was threatened by authority, he was neither merciful to his father nor to his brother. To remind you that they are after Milos Obrenovic towards Pavel Cukic, Peter Moler, Simi Markovic, Milo Popovic-Djak, and Vuk Karadzic. Didn't this Milos Obrenovic kill his best man, Karajordz? Rarely, the ruler of the throne in the short dynasty history of the 19th and 20th centuries preserved a living head and died of natural causes. If you don't believe me, look again at what history says. Of the six rulers of the 19th century, three were killed, and three had to leave before the time. I will mention the murder of Karadjordje in 1817, Mihajl Obrenović in 1967, Aleksandr Obrenović and Draga Mašin in 1903 and at the end of King Aleksandr Obrenović in 1934. Do I need to remind you of the failed assassinations of King Milan in 1882, 1889, and of the one still under-explained in the people, the assassination attempt when the toilet boards were cut in Smederev in 1873. We now come to the state and the fact that Serbs are one moment forming political parties and that inter-dynamic conflicts are moving to the policy field. Do you know that in just a month's time, 25 MPs convened the then Kingdom of Serbia ended their cruel and terrible death by their political being and being on our planet at all? Did you know that the Prime Minister was stoned by the house, that house in France 7, where the Association of Librarians is now, that in Zaječar, the fellow MPs were put on a rye and roasted, did you know that all the funds were allowed in the calculation of the progressors and radicals, that MPs were pressed into the oxen yoke and beaten in the streets of Serbia? From that and that context, we come to the 20th century and we come to a situation where guns and heads have moved around in this House. We're coming to World War II and we're coming up with a time I want to testify from personal experience. Do you know when, for the first time in history, the term "mass tomb", such a terrible term, and what a mass grave is? Two totalitarian regimes, whose executioners learned from each other, the communist and fascist totalitarian regimes invented the term "mass tombs". The mass grave represents a collective stopway, for through human history there has never been impossible for the victim's family to take over the body, nor have all the victims been buried together without any marks, no names, no last names, and no religious ritual. In the mid - 20th century, mass graves saw the light of day, and millions of people ended up in mass graves. I understand when such crimes are committed by the occupying armies in front of our people, and we had the order of Adolf Hitler, the Ferdbarshau list, in every way to suppress the uprising movement in Serbia and we had Franc Bene who brought that terrible order - 100 Serbs for one killed German, 50 for one wounded. Who are these people who publicly had the decisions of their military headquarters to dress up in Ustasha uniforms and kill Serbs in Herzegovina, wouldn't the Serbs force them to rise? Enough Serbs died by Ustasha in Herzegovina, and it was not necessary to issue such orders. Then he says, "They should go into Partisan uniforms and kill more people in central Serbia to turn to another movement." It wasn't strangers, it wasn't anybody who came out of the world, we were doing it to ourselves. You want me to tell you about the courage of people who have preserved the memory of the victims in Baghdad, who are just today at dawn, naked and bare-bossed by Mother Jugovic's street to Baghdad itself, where a few dozen priests were killed, to tell you about the courage they had to give to the priest Dragic Ilic writing to these people, to tell you about the courage of Miroslav Bogdanovic, a professor of literature from Kruševec, who preserved the testimony of these people? Will the law ever rehabilitate those people who are forced to guard the bridge in Jinis, and then were killed by partisans dressed in Chetnic uniforms? They were slaughtered on a bridge in Jinis when they were guarding the railroad, neither guilty nor debtor. These people will never be rehabilitated. Do I need to tell you about the Association of Trade Youth of the City of Kruševec, who made the most famous people of that time, the heroes of the 1912-1918 Liberation Wars, who were condemned as human enemies just because they received a dividend from actions and were sentenced just to confiscate their property and to get some other people into their houses? Do I have to tell you that there is no cantar on which we will owe ourselves to those people who have died, sweated, suffered, wounded, chased in the First World War with the name of Serbia on their lips, who ended up on the Blacktop cutting wood because they were condemned as people's enemies? Of course, we won't forget those people who are victims of the Info Bureau, because those people who had deep confidence in a Utopian idea were driven to Goli Island, condemned and shown up in their environments and when they came back, if they were lucky to survive the martyrdom of the Golog island and St. Grgur, couldn't get a job, couldn't hire their children, couldn't hire their wives. If they suffered, the grave and fate were unknown. Unfortunately, many times and many years in this country, it is dark to swallow someone, but it has never been so dark that the eyes of brave people, eyewitnesses and witnesses, have not preserved the memory of the fates of these people and of their testimony. I'm proud we're passing this and this law. This law does not disrupt the anti-fascist character of Serbia in World War II and anyone who is playing with the thesis that we will violate the credibility of our anti-fascist struggle should first count with how many heads, with how many millions of Serbian heads have been paid for our anti-fascist struggle and then simply bow down to those victims, asking no question at all whether we will change the character of our anti-fascist struggle and our anti-fascist orientation that we had in World War II and beyond. I found DB in the archives, when there were opportunities to read files, I found a terrible book of terrible titles. It's called "The Book of Shootings." "The Book of Shootings" was established in Serbia in October 1944. "The Book of Fire" was processed from the scientific aspect by Mr. Srdjan Cvetkovic, who made an immeasurable contribution to the opening of the tombs of that time. I got a lot of messages, both private and via the DS Parliament Club, from people who were worried about passing this law. For all of them, I only have one answer – it is time to close old tombs in Serbia once and for all, so they never open new ones again. It's time that we no longer sit on the threshold of the 21st century and lean upon that abyss in whose bloody pool at the bottom we count as much as he killed. They're all one way or another. If he hadn't been so many killed today, we'd be so much happier, we'd be much better and richer, because these people were killed in the power of creation. Of course, we'll never put a sign of equality between the victim and the criminal. The public needs, as Professor Micunovic says, to condemn every sentence of the type – few of my father killed as much as he could. Or a sentence. My hands are bloody to my elbows, and I'm sorry they're not up to my shoulder. Those are terrible sentences. I feel sorry for every man who's been killed as a victim of political persecution. In the end, what to say about those who died in the '90s. We don't need to forget them, we don't need to forget those people who are evicted from their homes, and they can't go back to their homes. And they have the right to be rehabilitated. Finally, some bid on the support of the European idea in this room among Serbian citizens, and I tell you it is much bigger than you say – 57% of people, according to a public opinion survey right now, want Serbia to be a European country. We used to have this dilemma, we had choices that were on fairies and knives, whether we were for Europe, or not for Europe. Today and those who were once the slogans of the European opinion are drilling into the breasts of Europe and they want to go to Europe. There are few of you left in this Europe who will not and do not support and do not want in it. But, you know, when we measure our effect, I'll tell you the next thing. It may not live well in Serbia today, but it does not live well anywhere in the world. It's no problem when there's a crisis all over the world, so there's a crisis with us. The problem would be that everywhere in the world there's prosperity, but there's a crisis with us. Thanks to the laws that we passed in this session, and also this law, never, and I will repeat, has ever lived more freely in Serbia's history. Maybe we freedom today don't value as much as we should, because we don't know what the price of that freedom is and we forget lightly with how many millions of human lives and fate is paid for the price of freedom. Again, I underline, when we look behind us, we can say, perhaps the crisis is economical, it may be a great unemployment, there may be serious problems affecting other parts of Europe, but this degree of freedom that we have achieved today in Serbian society, it is primarily due to our work, our efforts, and this law that we are bringing forth will be written on the brightest pages of these foundations, this freedom, will be the brightest letter of T freedom, whose name will begin with this law. Of course, nothing will end with this law, there are many injustices that we will never be able to correct, unfortunately done in the times that are behind us, but when we turn around, we will be able to stand behind us in what stands on a monument, a great man of Serb generation, "We look to the people grateful to God, without the seal of shame". We have no mark of shame from the DS, we have the mark of pride that after many years we correct the historical injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63368	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63369	The Rehabilitation Act may be one of the most important laws that has great touch points with the SPO programme and with everything that has brought us together into this political party. After 66 years after the end of World War II, 70 years from its beginning, 11 years after democratic changes in Serbia, we finally got one law that could be acceptable to the congregation's majority, and thus also to the followers of the SPO. Of course, the history of all peoples, the history in which much has happened, and even in Serbian history, but let's be quite open, this law primarily concerns everything that happened during World War II and right after World War II, or in the predominantly part. Of course, human rights violations were later and, of course, there are today, but to a lesser and smaller extent. Professor Dragoljub Micunovic, through the prism of leftists, talked about the dictatorial regime of Josip Broz Tito, and I will, through the prism of the right-wing, also mention the most important reasons, and they concern the exact dictatorial regime of Josip Broz Tito. Professor Micunovic and we from the SPO come to the same field, which is the field of respect for human rights, which is the basis on which the EU rests and another proof that this society has made a step forward in its democratisation process, and in the EU there is room for all political parties, for all social arrangements and republics and monarchs and left-wings and right-wings, but what matters most is that these parties and these societies are democratic and respect human values. The period after World War II is the period of the most difficult or "par excellance" of human rights violations, the time of the communist dictatorship of Josip Broz Tito, the time for which many, due to the reasons that I will cause unfounded regrets as for the happy times in which you imagine irony, surely and happily and peacefully lived. Totalitarian communist regimes, which ruled Central and Eastern Europe, were without exception marked by serious human rights violations. Human rights violations included individual and mass killings, dying in concentration camps, starving, deportation, torture, slave work and other forms of mass, physical, psychological terror, inhumane conduct, persecution on an ethnic, religious basis, confiscation of property, seizure of civil rights, violation of freedom of conscience, thoughts, expression, freedom of the press, ban on political pluralism. This is the period of Joseph Broz Tito's rule, a period that we haven't disguised enough, there is not enough awareness in Serbia of its weight and all the bad consequences of the regime, and for this reason I say today in Serbia many citizens with misconvincingly regret this period. All crimes were justified on behalf of the theory of class struggle and the principles of the dictatorship of proletariats. The interpretation of both principles has been legitimateized by the removal of people who think otherwise, who are considered harmful to the construction of a new one, as they said in a fair society, a communist society, and as such enemies of totalitarian communist regimes. A huge number of victims were paid primarily by people living under that regime and mostly by the Soviet Union. The fall of totalitarian communist regimes has not been followed in all cases by an international investigation into the crime that has occurred in Serbia. Many perpetrators of these crimes were not brought to trial as was the case with members of national socialism or Nazism. Accordingly, there is a very weak public awareness of the scale and extent of the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes. Communist parties are still active in many countries, but in many cases they have not distanced themselves from the crimes committed in the past by the communist regime. I think it's a shame for all governments and all parliaments, after the 1990s, and especially after October 5, 2000, which until today, we've waited so long to pass one of these laws and say unequivocally to distance ourselves from the crimes of the dictatorial regime that governs here. We from the SPO are convinced that awareness of history is one of the preconditions to avoid similar crimes in the future. In addition, moral assessment and condemnation of crimes play an important role in the education of young generations. The clear position of the state in relation to the past can be a recommendation for future actions. We therefore believe that victims of crimes committed by totalitarian regimes that are still alive, or their families deserve compassion, understanding, recognition of their own suffering and satisfaction, which allows them this law on rehabilitation. Why has it been 21 years since the introduction of a multi-party or 11 years from democratic changes to one of these laws? There are several basic reasons. First, in 1990 to 2000, the parties who were the effective heirs of the Communist Party - SUBNOR, were the signposts, the refugees and all those who participated in the most serious human rights violations with their satellites and partners. Such heirs could not have been expected to rehabilitate the sacrifices they viewed as traitors. In 2000, the regime was thrown out in co-operation with losers from the eighth session and with many parties that were basically not anti-communist, and thus neither democratic. The state institutions, media, academia, institutes, are full of people who are descendents of those who still live and all seem today to have Serbia, who in 1945, said Dusan Kovacevic, cut off the head and placed pumpkins with a five-pointer, and Serbia is largely lurking in the dark, that Serbia slowly sobers up and slows down, in our view, too slowly, towards the family of orderly states and people, towards membership in the EU, which basically rests on respect for human rights. The government has formed a state commission to detect mass graves and the state commission has indeed found dozens of tombs in Serbia. They rest unscathed and unmarked bodies of the Serb civil class and of host Serbia. In many places where mass graves are located are unfortunately stadiums, kindergartens, cultural institutions. We think it's one of the most important tasks for all these mass graves to be unearthed, to be properly buried, to identify the victims, but to identify the executioners. What is not an ideological position, which is a historical fact, is that the right Serbia, whose we think we are promoters, is never in its history as a fruit of its struggle revolutionary, liberating, etc. She did not terrorise other nations or her own people, nor did she ever think of leaving one single mass grave in Serbia, which cannot be said for members of the Partizan movement, but in 1990 we talked about reconciliation and now we are talking about reconciliation but we are talking about correcting historical injustices, because in order for reconciliation to be done we must do what is in our power to correct as much historical injustices as possible. What is the current 2006 Rehabilitation Act? It's a good provision and a thousand stupidities and shortcomings. The 2006 law, a sad story with a happy ending when we adopt this, according to us, good law. We have all found today that Serbia is still a country of legally uncontrollable authoritarian past. In the catalogue of inappropriate means of mastering the authoritarian dictatorial past, the visible place is precisely the 2006 Rehabilitation Act, which is lilyputic in its dimensions and giant in its faults. Rehabilitation as an ethical, noble, legal institution has received the law on rehabilitation of this work version that we are now discussing, which we believe is capable of achieving the dignity of its name and purpose of existence. With regard to the authoritarian past in Serbia, everyone settled in two columns, as well as the past itself. The first column includes all those who have severely violated human rights, with those who guard the legacy of totalitarian communist regimes, which is a column containing murderers, executioners, liquidators, labels, murderers. There's all the victims in the second column. Once again, two conditions have arisen to ensure that the past is properly, legally, morally, and ethically overcome. The first condition is that the democratic government has a built-up policy of overcoming the authoritarian past, that this policy is comprehensive, that rehabilitation is comprehensive, and we see the good intentions of this law. Others, to create adequate legal instruments for the realisation of such a policy. It was not enough after October 5th in Serbia. All governments did not have a policy of total distance from the dictatorial past after October 5th, nor did they offer laws through parliament to rule over the authoritarian past. We have had a lot of inconsistencies in the process of moral, legal and political overcoming the past. I'll prove that kind of inconsistencies on the next case. The law on the return of property and the compensation of churches and religious communities, the Law on Restitution, the Law on Rehabilitation, the Law on Equalisation of Rights and the Honors of Members of the Partizan and the Equality Movement as if they had not been passed in the same country, in the country of Serbia. First law, the Law on the Compensation of Churches and Religious Communities obliges the State to repay to churches and religious communities everything it can, and if it cannot, to pay them full market compensation. For the SPO, this is just, fair and excellent, acceptable not because we believe in Christian principles, but because we believe in the principle of justice. The second law, the restitution law obliges the state to return something, not to return something, not to pay a full market price if it can't pay back. The victims of the confiscation of property for ideological reasons did not receive all that could be returned to them, nor was there a substitution or full market compensation. So it's unfair. The Law on equalising the rights of members of the Partizan and the Equality Movement is unfair because of the fact that a single member of the Ravnog Movement has not won a single pension dinar until today, and this is not the case with members of the Partizan movement. Did we just bring this bill to people's eyes, to tell them, as is now the current Rehabilitation Act, which we're sure to end, tell people -- well, we've been taking away your property, you've been in prison for 10 years, your kids have been in foster homes, you've lost your civil rights, you've lost your job, you haven't been able to advance in service, you've been branded as traitors. The answer of the state is - you have a court ruling that you are not traitors. What about damage compensation, material, immaterial, suffering? It is this law on rehabilitation that provides for the widest circle of damage compensation and that is absolutely something that is good. Regardless of what we have advocated most as a political party, to rehabilitate members of the right movement, we are pleased in terms of the European perspective and European arrangement of the country of Serbia that the circle of the person to whom this law applies is the widest and that the circle of law is the greatest. It's something that's good, but something that comes with great delay. The state must have consistency in overcoming the authoritarian past, not making new victims, not favouring one victim and not making new discrimination. This is not done by these laws, but it has been done to others and it is our job to amend these laws recently. Also, nothing can be justified by the regulation on opening the police service files, so the Constitutional Court's decision was made that these regulations are against the constitution because the matter can only be regulated by law, and that we are still waiting for one such law as the fellow Yugoslavia was talking about. The 2006 Rehabilitation Act is deficient because it is not about rehabilitation, it concerns only one segment of rehabilitation, one piece of rehabilitation, but this bill is really good and really comprehensive. What is particularly interesting, as Mr. Micunovic also pointed out, is that the complete mastering of the authoritarian past implies that all victims are done what can be done, but also to do what is necessary against the perpetrator. In many countries and in many societies, dictators and their supporters and those who committed mass executions, mass killings, and gravely wronged human rights, were brought to justice and were accountable to God. In our case, we do not have a single case, and of course, in addition to not obsessing war crimes, we think that the opening of a secret service file will still be a person, because this and the current legal order enables, which will surely be faced with the face of justice, not enough for victims, but enough as a recommendation for the future, because if we are talking about national reconciliation, if we are talking about justice, if we are talking about Serbia's future, we really must turn to that future completely, but we must correct everything from the past that is possible to correct. Of course, even today, some political parties have been talking about the rehabilitation of the equogori, etc. They said they wouldn't vote for this law. This law provides for the possibility that, among other things, the Gardens are fully rehabilitated. I would remind the public that it is a political party that has never even gone to Ravna Gora, has made no contribution to rehabilitation, the re-affirmation of the Ravnogore Movement. When we erected a monument to General Draža Mihajlovic in Ravna Gora, one of their supporters came and cut off the monument. They mocked that General Draža had a Partizan uniform, etc. It is a party which, regardless of only attacking the verbal regime of Josip Broz Tito, has never voted in the Assembly for a single law that means distancing from the dictatorial communist past, because it is their way of thinking, they only verbally advocated members of the Ravnogore movement but in practice never did anything at rehabilitation, at reforming this movement, nor will they. Because of all the benefits of this law, which we will discuss more closely in the debate in detail, the SPO MPs will vote on this law in the day of voting with both hands, because it is one of the foundations of the SPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63370	MP Meso Omerovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63371	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I regret that such an important law, which has been so many words over the past few months, has been the law whose first version has been withdrawn because of the pressure of both the public and those who felt that what was proposed was contrary to both the Constitution and some legislative regulations, today here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is barely following 50 MPs of the ruling coalition. It's even sadder that we don't even have a representative of the government. I don't know a young gentleman, he's from the Department of Urban Affairs and Environmental Protection, maybe. Is that right? I am sorry that the authorised legislator of this law is not here, because I would remind you, in the past few months, that individual representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have not been removed from the daily pillars and electronic media, who have explained that this bill is a condition for obtaining EU candidate status. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is not true. This law was not a condition for us to get EU membership candidate status. I deeply believe that the state of Serbia will receive candidate status on December 9th, because it deserves it, not because we are going to pass this rehabilitation law. This Rehabilitation Act is a bad attempt to rehabilitate those who want to inherit huge assets. That's what one of my esteemed predecessors already said. This law is in a very bad way trying to mix with the Restitution Act. So we're not going to talk about crimes here, those who did and those who have to answer for these crimes. We will not speak, unfortunately, of the innocent, of the tens of thousands, unfortunately, of the period this law speaks of. Unfortunately, it seems that here they will only talk about whether someone will inherit property from those of their ancestors who were associates of the occupation or his assistants and who, by the letter of the law, were convicted in the period when these laws were in force. What matters most is that this law is better than the text of the law that we had and that our great happiness was withdrawn. This law defines those who were assistants and associates of the occupiers. We know who they were, I won't name them, so I don't cause a replica of some MPs in this room. But for me, it is a fundamental issue of constitutional ground for the adoption of one of these laws – why to pass a law on rehabilitation which primarily refers to those who participated in one or another in the Quinslin formations of those who in one way or another co-operated with or assisted the Serbian occupier from 1941 to 1945, when King Peter, in his order from 12 September 1944, literally said that whoever disobeyed the order to disband the Chetnic movements and did not join the People's Liberation Movement, would be responsible for the war laws, and those who committed war crimes would be responsible for the work done, the crown would not be justified to them. So, the moment they disobeyed the order of one whose allegiance they swore and gave up the opportunity to join the People's Liberation Movement, those people had to be aware of entering something that would tomorrow or the day after tomorrow be the right and legal basis for their conviction. So it's very unfortunate that we are trying to introduce today, I think I may be mistaken, one dangerous arbitraryness in the legal system of the Serbian state where we will create a precedent that will allow each of the next governments to change and pass laws according to their own opinion, in some of the parties' or personal interests. It's my fundamental objection to the basis that's listed here as constitutional. I don't think that's good, especially, let me, I think most of my honourable fellow MPs agree, insults intelligence and common sense when in the final provisions, the proponent says that this law will not require financial resources to be provided. It's kind of like an attempt to plant a coward's egg. As for the very text of the law and what we could listen to in previous statements from representatives of the so-called so-called. Right Serbia, I think it's bad if we here today through the Rehabilitation Act are trying to do something that's impossible, and that seems to me to be free, to try to present anti-communism as anti-fascism or to equalize communist and fascist regimes. I will not defend the communist regime, nor will I defend the crimes committed by that regime in the post-World War II period. After all, I am a member of that same state commission with the Secretary General of our Assembly, Mr. Veljko Odalovic, so I have the highest right to talk about it, not as some who have been constantly calling hundreds and hundreds of thousands of victims since 1946. It turns out that your communist killed everyone alive, as if no one exists here who is not a descendant of those same communists. Let's not simplify things. It's about living people, it's about trying and something that, unfortunately, in Serbia has already extended time in action, and that's the end of history, trying to make those who lost World War II, those who were on the side of the occupiers now declare themselves winners. It's not a recommendation to rehabilitate that someone was against communism. To introduce the first member of the legal consequences of rehabilitation to persons for political, religious, national or ideological reasons is fine, but I would remind you, fascism was the blackest ideology possible. I'm talking about the period from 1941 to 1945, or earlier when it came into existence, and his numerous satellites and helpers, or those who worked with them here on Serbian territory during World War II, would now want to be portrayed through some as if they weren't. You know, you can't violently separate whoever was working with Hitler from Hitler. They're just one body. Why do you now represent them as so-called opponents of communism? You think communism is more evil than fascism. So, the associates of the occupier. And it's not a question of whether or not they were and why they were occupiers during that period, while others were against fascism. Serbia's biggest problem today in 2011, why did these first become victims and these other criminals? So, unfortunately, anti-communism seems to have become the ultimate moral principle and the greatest value. So the problem is those who are ideological opponents, not those who were associates of the occupiers. That is why I am pleased that in this new version, through communication and talks with Ministry representatives, we have managed to insert provisions that speak of Quislin information, or those who were members of the occupation and armed forces and those who co-operated with that same occupier. So that's one progress, because we will clearly and precisely put into the same basket all those who helped and collaborated with the occupier during World War II in Serbia's space, as well as those who were directly in his service. What I think is controversial, and what I will say in particular, in the debate under the amendments, are certain provisions concerning the repeal of certain laws, or judgments. That's the precedent I'm talking about. So, we can't by one law, this isn't a "lex specialis" to annul court rulings. Why? I understand and think that I share an opinion with everyone and most Serbian citizens, that they are rehabilitating or have the opportunity to rehabilitate, people who have suffered and whose rights have been violated without a judicial or administrative ban. Hence, anyone who is thus deprived of liberty, condemned, or deprived of life, of his property has the right, as his descendants, to rehabilitate, that is, to demand that that property be returned to him. However, an idea that wants to slip through legal rehabilitation is rehabilitated by persons who are convicted, beware, condemned by a court decision, for me the least said is controversial. Why? I'll give you an example. Points 4 and 5 of this proposal of Article 5 of the Law states that, by force of the law, persons who have been punished by a court ruling for a criminal offence under Article 2 of the Law prohibiting the cause of national, racial and religious hatred and discord, if only by a writing act. Why isn't he speaking? You understand, if he wrote something that is contrary to the laws of dispersion of religious and national hatred, and whoever spoke has nothing to do with it. So it's just you who wrote that you should answer. What's the difference? This provision also opens a fundamental dilemma for me. We are rehabilitating now, if here the motionor quoted the laws of democratic Federation Yugoslavia and the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, but not for the same crime. We have not rehabilitated at all under the laws of Yugoslavia, the SRJ, the Serbia-Montenegro State Community, or Serbia since it became independent of the 2006 Constitution. So it's a controversy for me. Furthermore, I mean most problematicly, from the point of view of the state of Serbia as members of 21st and 22nd. In fact, if you have carefully watched these members, the law provides for the recognition of double internships, which directly reflects the level of pensions and pension funds. The compensation for material and immaterial damage, whose dimensions, I suppose, will be large. But the law doesn't say who's gonna pay for it? Because at first, I said that the explanation states that no funds are needed for this. It is clear, of course, that this will still come from budget funds, which will say that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will pay. After all, let's just take this Rehabilitation Compensation Commission that's to be formed and some members will be entitled to monthly compensation, so isn't that going to be a burden on budget funds? Of course he will. Not to mention the other kinds of damages this law provides. You know, we also have a proposal that even those who have applied for rehabilitation have returned some property under the Restitution Act, now, I guess, based on the suffering of mental or some other pain, their descendants are entitled to cash compensation. It is in this law, up to half the average salary in the state of Serbia. Now I ask you all, in this poor, miserable state of Serbia, do we have awareness if we know that we have no money, that we are putting one of these provisions into law and that we are taking from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when we are more than aware that this is impossible to achieve and that this will indeed come up against the greatest part of the citizens? In this context, I have also invested amendments on these members, so that these provisions are abolished, because it is simply amazing to me that we have a problem that the poor and starving, suddenly Serbia can pay special monthly benefits and rehabilitation benefits. I don't think so personally. Do we one day in this law have to pay everyone in the privatisation process, and we know what our privatisations were, and who were out of a job, to pay some compensation? Perhaps some court will say that we have re-rehabilitated, this time, labor property. Let's be honest and honest, the largest number of workers in Serbia have spent decades and years, married couples or individually, created the property of certain factories and invested in them. The state sold them. They're out of a job. I would be most fortunate if, always in some future process of convergence and full membership in the EU, parallel to moral rehabilitation, we could carry out materially, but we must not, dear colleagues and respected friends, must not commit to something that cannot be done. He can't do it, because he's got a lot of poor people, because our economy is doing our job, so you better say no, because we don't have money. Therefore, I think this is an insult to dignity, that the law also allows for monetary compensation, through the suffering of some kind of mental pain to those who are the descendants of those who have been deprived of some rights and who have taken away property. We're gonna pay them back their property, and they're gonna get their property back, but where do we get money to worship them, to pay them with half a month's pay? What's it supposed to mean, for example? Recognising a double internship for deprivement of freedom? Let's take an example. Do those who have been deprived of their freedom in the last 10 to 15 years recognize the right to double retirement? How many have we had arrested in "Sabreya"? Are we going to recognize them as a double retirement internship? Shall we? The adoption of this law, for example, and thousands of poor peasants in Serbia who are neither guilty nor in debt, as the army comes into the yard, picks it up and takes it to this formation, who may not have borrowed a gun, say, died after two months or two days in a fight, in some ambush, or were there by the end of the war, not fired a bullet, were later convicted as occupiers, and now we have to treat them in the same way. They do not have the right to rehabilitate, but they will have the right to produce ammunition in Belgrade. Those who from 1941 to 1945 had their factories, produced ammunition for the Germans, they now and their descendants, have the right to rehab because they were not war criminals. They're not convicted of war crimes. The legislator asks in this bill that, for example, They're rehabilitating by law. I think it is also the rape of history and rape of justice, and that it is the introduction of Serbia into one state when, as I said a moment ago, every future government will be able to for some 15 to 20 years, perhaps, undo all these laws that we are making, or all the judgments that have been passed over the past 10 to 15 years. I think it's one big danger. I believe it will be the most helpful for the respected fellow lawyers. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm trying to act and talk about some things that might be in that legal matter. After all, I believe that through a whole series of amendments that have been submitted, there will be a revision of this law and that we will bring this law down to its essence. That's what a respected professor is. Micunović spoke. I'm sorry he's not here today, because he's brought out a great experience and great knowledge. These are the words of a respected professor and scientist who has been struggling his whole life to build a fairer and fairer society. To be honest, I am very happy that I had the privilege as a Serbian citizen to listen to him and to work with him politically for the past 15 years. No one, therefore, questions the need for moral rehabilitation. We must clearly separate those who committed crimes and therefore convicted by the laws of the state that was in force at that time. So there's no going back to the old one. Anyone convicted of war crimes by the court may seek judicial review, may seek the renewal of the trial, but nor may the law be rehabilitated by this law. I repeat once again, and I end up with that, anyone who is convicted without a court, in God's justice, as our people would say, must have the right to rehab, must have the right to return property, etc. We simply enter into a precedent that if the provisions are left, especially on monetary compensation, that we will send a very, very bad message to Serbia's majority, and that majority Serbia hardly ends up with the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63372	I thank a colleague who left his colleague Milan Vukkovic for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63373	I don't know if I should give up my speech, because for what I'd say, there won't be enough time. Let me just say one thing. What is left in today's very high-quality discussion or is insufficiently said, this is not a law on the past, though treated by the past, this is not a law on Chetniks, partisans, Ljotics and others, this is a law on Serbia's future. We need as a society to legally determine ourselves according to our past, to break up with the authoritarian past and open up a page of a new future. If we look at young people today, very often, too often, they are inspired to practice politics and to interpret today's events found in the past, in history, and very often through the abuse of historical myths, looking at today through the prism of medieval myths. The fact is that a great injustice has been done to many of our citizens, that it has been done by the state, regardless of what it was called, a socialist, a federal, a democratic, a national, etc., Yugoslavia, Serbia, is, however, especially in the period from 1944 to 1957. Even before that, there were no roses, but what happened from 1944 to 1951, deserves a special condemnation issued by most Eastern European bloc countries, the former communist country, because the government was established by force, property was kidnapped by people, and once we as a society have to give our position on all this, and above all because of the future of young generations. Thank you for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63374	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63375	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, in short time which, unfortunately or fortunately, anyone who looks, I have, will look back on a few things and I will comment on the Rehabilitation Law proposal. My colleagues' discussions, first of all, from the ruling coalition, tell me that this law will remain a law on paper. One of the colleagues in the ruling coalition has listed all the laws that have been in power since 2000, and we all know the effect of these laws and whether they have been implemented at all. If we didn't know who we are here in parliament, and maybe all the citizens don't know, in the previous few discussions, it would be said that these are the parties of opposition and government, and they were spoken by fellow MPs and representatives of the ruling coalition. So, did the real reason and the trouble force the ruling coalition to pass this law, whether it's a European condition, whether it's a trend, that's a big question, but what I certainly conclude -- there's no will and consciousness and conscience that some people should be rehabilitated who have been killed in God's justice just because they thought otherwise. The very fact that this law today represents a minister or at least until recently represented and defended by the environment minister brings me to the thought of a great irony. Not that the bones of these martyrs pollute our sacred Serbian country? Is it possible to connect with this now that some of the up until almost in the media have been digging up the bones of the poor martyr, our Serb general Draža Mihajlovic, for political reasons and collecting political points? Something I can't hear them talking about anymore. Some of the bones were found out there on Ada, so it turns out they're bones of animal origin. Gentlemen, it is a great insult to Serbia, to all the honourable Serbs, and especially to the descendants of the Egagorites. I've been listening here to some colleagues talking with so much passion, I'd say hate, that I'm afraid of this future, which a young colleague here is talking about. I'm afraid as a man of my age that history doesn't repeat itself, and it repeats itself to those who haven't learned a lesson. This isn't about, gentlemen, the winners, the fascists and the anti-fascists, it's about a law that at least on paper should allow for God's earthly justice, here to say -- these people didn't commit crimes, they were killed, they were shot to take away their property or because they were for king and country. If we were to talk about associates, that those occupiers were, I could only indicate something that we all know here in the O.R. Is there any Serbian citizen who doesn't know that there is a monument to Draža Mihajlovic's General in downtown Washington? They say he was an occupier's associate, those who favour Euro-Atlantic integration. The Atlantic integration, the NATO Pact, and the NATO Pact's spine are the United States. So, what's in a man? I really don't want to sound like I'm accusing someone, but who doesn't realize that every man who's killed innocent deserves a cross and a grave or a religious sign of the nation and the faith that he belongs to? I see, unfortunately, there are still severed discussions of people who don't understand that, who are calling for the verdicts of the communist and Partisan courts. Everyone knows, I guess they're reading books, how they judge. Am I to say that the members of the right-wing movement did not commit crimes? Yeah, and I think that's a huge majority of them and they're convicted, but this is what they're talking about, and that's why they're talking about rehab, in my opinion, and there's not. If we need some people to rehabilitate, dozens, hundreds and thousands of people who have been killed, whose property has been taken away, then why is there no law to say who did it? It would then be a real law of rehabilitation, for the sake of the future, if our descendants and our children knew who did it. For these other crimes, we know the names and what formation they belonged to and who did it. Why can't it be known from this law who killed those people, who shot people in Belgrade, who shot people in Chačka, in Zajecar? Well, communists, the Communist Party did it and it has to be put on. This does not mean that all members of the party, especially the Partizan movement, are condemned where people fought for freedom and against fascism. It'll be a signal to me to think straight and seriously with this law to rehabilitate people. I read the verdict here recently, gentlemen, that a man was shot, and after a year, his trial was rehabilitated and rehabilitated by the judgment of the County Court in Chačka in 2008. The main witness at the trial was a prominent member of the Partizan Movement in Cačka, an honest man. I'm just different from him ideologically. He said: He did not do anything, nor touched anyone, nor usurped anyone's property, and he was killed only because he was a soldier of Dražin. Saved man and honor and face, not only his own, but the Partisan movement, and here we have these discussions. It's a waste of passing a law like this if this is the kind of awareness of government. There's no talking here, at least I was naive and believed there was no talking here about the defeated and the winners. We know the winners always write history, but it's been years and years, so it turns out it's not like that. I thought, frankly, that this law would be symbolically passed on October 6, 2000. I know when the new government started a new parliament, but I say in a symbolic sense. Now we're passing this law here because it's what Europe is looking for, because maybe the families of 500 American pilots, their descendants who know who saved their fathers and grandfathers, so the people of General Draža Mihajlovic. Everyone has the right to think, understand and people on the other side, a lot of people who have been unhappy or committed crimes, for the crimes of members of the Ravnogore movement. These people are historically convicted more than they should be. This is about people who have been killed, whose bones lie. For example, I can also wonder as a citizen of this country, is there a war crimes court in this country? What's he waiting for? If there are witnesses, if the tombs are dug, if the bones are seen, there are still living people who did it. Are they waiting for them all to die? What Professor Micunovic said, instead of covering their ears and sitting at home, they are taking part in the stands, whose members of this movement here today are having a hypocritical discussion, which is publicly said in a live show, and is thought of by General Kapicicic, and he has killed and is sorry that he has not yet killed. Imagine hypocrisy, now he's taking part in the name of some turn in the stands of some parties, it doesn't matter. What can an ordinary citizen conclude here? Why do these in the ruling coalition, if they behave like this and think like this, why do they even pass this law? Did someone force them to do that, is it some political coercion by the EU? Is that even a condition? I wouldn't talk about any conditions at all. The condition of human dignity, our life of the existence of institutions in this country, is that innocent people are rehabilitated, that they are said to have been killed in the justice of God. Why? So that this would never happen again, that people would be killed for belonging to a particular nation, religion or ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63376	MP Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63377	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I want once again, completely clear and completely accurate, to see this legislative proposal as necessary and as a need at this time. It is quite clear, it is a legal proposal that is a condition for the EU and without which it is not possible to implement a recently adopted Restitution Act. The government has shown determination and determination when it comes to EU membership. European integration is one of five key principles and principles based on which the parliamentary majority and the ruling coalition in Serbia and European integration were formed and established, but also national and state interests, defence of territorial integrity and state sovereignty. On the other hand, we believe that anyone convicted, accused and for ideological, political, national or religious reasons deserves rehabilitation regardless of ideology. Rehabilitation must not have a time limit. Rehabilitation, our opinion, must not have a certain historical distance, or historical definition. It should cover an unlimited period and apply to all ideologies, but none of the defendants should or should not be subject to rehabilitation. We are in favour of correcting a historical injustice, but we are not in favour of correcting a historical injustice, making some new injustice today. Also, we cannot accept and cannot support anything that would devalue, which would challenge the anti-fascist fight in Serbia. When I say that, I don't see that we're saying anything that is contrary to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government's definition is the EU. It is the EU who cultivates heritage that marks the anti-fascist fighting fluids. Should we be ashamed of it or should we do it in a shy and shameful way? I think Serbia's essential need at this point is to stop dividing, not to transfer past conflicts to the present generations. Most of us in this room won't agree on one thing, and that's the past, although today, less or less, we're talking about the past. We can certainly conduct dialogue for hours, we can talk about it for days, we can conflict opinions, but I don't see that anything good and anything positive would bring Serbia and Serbia today, because the past, and that we will, we can't change at this point, but we can influence the present and we can jointly try to build the foundations of some new future. The ideology of the political options we belong to is generally known. The story of partisans and Chetniks, my personal sighting, should have long been placed where it belongs - in history. The time needs to be shown and whether he was right. The SPS is proud of its past and we're not running away from our past. When I say that, I mean not only the period since the start of the SPS, since 1990, I mean the traditions of Serbian, socialist, social democratic, communist and in general working thoughts and movements in Serbia. Parties that speak only of the past, I think, have neither the present nor the future, which is the legitimate right of any political option in Serbia. I think from the past, someone talked about it for a while, we all need to learn some lessons, try to affirm what was in the past, that historical facts aren't enough. We can't always talk about them. Historical facts, if they were positive, if they were in the interest of citizens, we need to confirm today. We need to stop restating and mourning one past, because it seems to me that's how we're going to lose both the present and the future. I have just said that everything that has been positive in the past should be affirmed, although there are probably more members of the Communist Party than there are in the SPS MPs' club today. I want to remind you of a slogan of the Communist Union, although I failed to see that period, which says that nothing is so sacred that it would not be and could not be replaced by something better and more advanced. It's the way the SPS behaves today. So we need to stop dreaming about what it was like and watch what it's like today. It cannot go forward in Serbia with an old way of thinking, with the policy of the past cannot go into a new century, you cannot go forward and reach defined goals if you always look back. This government, the parliamentary majority, has very clearly defined its priorities, principles and principles around which it is gathered. We can always talk about the results of the work and we are always ready to talk about the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're ready, I said, I support finally correcting the historical injustice, but when it comes to the past, we from the SPS will look at the present, we'll look at the future, and in a simple dictionary, we'll look at the mirror when we have time. When it comes to opening secret files, because this was also the case today, the representatives of one political option have launched it, I would like to say that this initiative was launched by President Ivica Dacic during his role as MP and as he served as chairman of the National Assembly's Security Committee and that the initiative, at the moment it was launched, had no support within the Defence and Security Committee. Anyway, I'd like to say that we're in favour of opening secret files and publishing lists of secret service associates. That we absolutely don't mind. When secret files open, we'll see who he was working with before that famous year 2000 and after 2000. So this initiative will always be supported by the SPS. Once again at the very end, the SPS-JS parliamentary club sees the legislative proposal as necessary, as a necessity and will support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63378	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63379	We stopped at a debate in the next sense. In Article 7, we have said that we will make an objection to a rehabilitation request that can also be filed by legal persons whose aim is to protect the freedom and rights of a man with the consent of a damaged person. It is no closer to being defined as legal persons, but it is known that they are associations or so on. NGOs don't actually deal with other legal entities. From the point of view of the right of such a provision is not acceptable at all and for several reasons. The position of those legal entities in the proceedings is not defined. Whether they have the position of representatives or parties. We don't think I can have any of those positions. According to the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia, only lawyers can represent citizens before courts. So associations just can't deal with representation. The same associations cannot even be party to the procedure because the right to rehabilitation is a personal right that cannot be transferred. So I keep letting you know that the law is very inconsistencies, that it has no clear goal and that it's actually a mix of ideas or to translate into Serbian requires coalition partners. The relationship between the damaged person and the association is unclear, i.e. whether the association conducts the procedure on its own behalf and on its own account or on behalf and on behalf of the damaged person. It is a controversial and legal character of consent because the right knows not only the consent to represent but only the authority. This provision also opens up a number of other controversial and practical and legal issues, such as the professional capacity of the association to conduct such proceedings before the court, the responsibility for damages due to unconscious management and non-discriminatory proceedings, the right to compensation, the possible reward, etc. Further in Article 9. e.g. you have solved it incompletely so that in fact we believe that one position should be added, where it says that persons who have filed for rehabilitation can submit that request for recovery of the seized property only within the time limit set out in Article 1. That's what I was telling you about that the five-year deadlines you're predicting in this law literally question the right of the one you're going to rehabilitate, if the deadline for filing is a request for resuscitation, i.e. the return of the seized property for two years. Furthermore, we believe that in Article 17 that I have announced as one of the very important ones we have suggested, where we are solving the issue of how to avoid someone with a request for rehabilitation who has not been proven uncontestably to have actually been mobilised under duress and that is why he should receive compensation. We have foreseen that this Article 17, a resolution on rehabilitation in cases of life deprivation without judicial or administrative decision and forced mobilization in the occupation armed forces and the Quislin formation, which you are persistently forgetting, is mandatory for the court to deliver to the public prosecutor responsible for war crimes which is required to carry out the investigation to determine the factors and responsibilities of individuals, i.e. the state. I don't want to remind you of the practice of two witnesses, as it was -- two without a soul one without a head. You must not allow such an easy right to rehabilitate, to compensate for damages without being determined in a sense if the rehabilitation solution implies that the crime is committed then it must be through the procedure we propose to Article 18 and proven that someone committed a crime and that if the state of Serbia compensates someone, who will be appointed to the state of Serbia, or the real culprit, to repent and to pay for the damages. Even in the environmentals, Mr. Lawman, the government's representative applies the principle of polluter pays for damages. You can think of what it means to pay for damages through a rehabilitation procedure at a time like this for the state of Serbia, when even a much stronger economy has such deficits and such without perspective. I'm still going to Article 22 to pay attention. Perhaps I wouldn't have pointed out this member of the law so much if he hadn't said, that if one right were to be limitedly amended by amendments that it wouldn't satisfy the distinguished colleagues, Mr. Vargo, who talked about it. Here, I'll just explain Article 22. We asked to erase that damage compensation where the internship counts for twice the length of rehabilitated faces. Now I'm going to have a colleague who's a lawyer try to explain the justice of this approach. I do not see at all that there are enough reasonable reasons to pay for the internship during the depravity of the double-term account, especially if you have in mind that this type of rehabilitation is also paid for, this so-called rehabilitation fee, but not material damage according to the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, a double-term internship is recognised only for participation in a war where conditions are nevertheless significantly more difficult. Such a special internship is never and never recognised by persons who are even unfounded of freedom and are proven in other modern current and regular flows. So, if someone was unwarranted in custody or held a prison sentence, and later no charges were filed or the charges were released or the conviction was annulled, this principle of compensation and double, to say the damages, is not valid. This brings citizens into an unequal position, and in the same situation. Is that in accordance with the Constitution? A colleague who spoke today, Mr Arsenovic also spoke about this justice in the sense that someone today feels unfairly like a second-rate citizen. A lot of people in the opposition feel that way. In the exercise of fundamental and elementary human rights from rights to word, from being silenced, from the fact that certain rights, labour law and rights stemming from a working relationship cannot be realised, and perhaps never, even I am one of those, I will never be obliged to exercise my right in terms of compensation and compensation, so that it is realised that it leads to inequality for all others who are in a similar way, similar to reasons, and that is prison, prison punishment and innocentness sitting there, which is a Pandam to this situation, will be double compensated. So, I would really like to ask my colleague Varga that this amendment that I consider mandatory and necessary is necessary to adopt, unsuspecting under these key changes that would contribute to the fact that they do not vote for this law, because as much as I think rehabilitation as a law on rehabilitation where there are cases where people who are unjustly condemned should be compensated, as much as I think it should be, that it should exist, it must be brought into such a form that it can always be applied. I will take, for example, a Catholic church that has always had the strength to repent of the crimes that have been committed. But even though one of the richest organizations in the world, the most organized, has never taken on the obligation to make damages. Because the canons of the Catholic Church do not foresee compensation for something that has been carried out through repentance. We don't want to mix that institute with the ransom of guilt by making voluntary contributions, etc. We don't want to mix that institute with what some of them were in prison for, for example, being. represent Serbian national interests, they never wanted to apply for rehabilitation because they rightly say -- I want it to be admitted to me that I represented the right thing, but that it was an unfair law that condemned me to be in prison because I fought for the right thing. Please, at the moment when this law is to be passed, there is no use of the opportunity of close sources, pressure from the environment, environments, for this law to be passed to bring things that we open the way for to pass unfair laws that do not put all citizens of Serbia in the same position. I will end this, and my colleague Rogovic will use the rest of his time on behalf of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63380	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zlata Djerić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63381	Ladies and gentlemen, under the conditions of permanent compromises or, rather, the quasi of compromises that we often present here in the Assembly, in conditions where the ruling coalition cannot agree on even the basic minimum national Serb interests of KIM, really nothing better than what you have proposed in the form of the Rehabilitation Law proposal could not have expected. Given how you have joined the 2006 Rehabilitation Act, we are well aware of how you will also approach this Rehabilitation Act when you adopt it here in the Assembly. To remind you, you have established some municipal commissions under the 2006 law that gave some preliminary opinion on the rehabilitation requirements, and for the last five years nothing has been done to explain it - a new rehabilitation law is awaiting. I'm sure that's how it's gonna happen when you pass this law, too, which is in the process today. In addition, given that you have significantly expanded the circle of persons entitled to rehab, as well as the circle of persons who have the right to apply for rehabilitation, it is clear that this law will simply satisfy only what is stated in the last sentence of reasoning, or, better say, the reasons for passing the law, where you said that the adoption of this law is one of the priorities in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia, I would say – the second, third or some fifth league of the EU if you ever joined, and I am sure that will be very difficult or perhaps never. So that's what your priority is, and how this law is going to be applied, how it's going to be implemented in practice, I don't think you care. The very conclusion that the budget does not need to provide additional financial resources for the implementation of this law is in favour of this claim. Dozens and, I would say, hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens will have a valid legal basis for them or their relatives to be granted the right to rehab and, after the rehabilitation procedure has been implemented, as you predict in this law, to remove or at least mitigate the consequences of the terror they have suffered from the Broz communist regime. Members of the so-called Yugoslav Army in the country and members of their families suffered the biggest torture of the communist regime of Josip Broz, and the army had a patriotic, anti-fascist and anti-communist and democratic character. It was a worldwide mass movement. I will also remind you that in their report of 9 February 1943, the Germans also pointed out that about 80% of Serbian families are related in some way to the Yugoslav Army in the country or the Ravnogorski Movement itself. So, the Yugoslav army in the country has legitimate continuity, a legitimate continuation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's army. The army was deployed in the 63rd Corps from Triglav to Devgelija. An Allied mission that was inspecting the Yugoslav army in the country at one point found that there were approximately 57,000 soldiers constantly under arms, about 472,000 being mobilized from 18 to 40 years old, some 169,000 from 45 to 50 years old. The surviving Ravnogors, members of their families, as well as many who managed to emigrate from Broz's regime suffered the hottest torture. Besides, so-called. The Yugoslav army in captivity numbered about 363,600 generals, officers, officers and soldiers. Somewhere around 200 grand has never returned to their homeland. Running away from Broz's regime, they stayed in the white world and never came back or at least not until Broz's death. What torturers survived those who remained here from that same regime know only them and the members of their families, but common to all of them is that they remained faithful to the one who led them until the end, so they remained faithful to the one whom the communist regime of Josip Broz killed in a cruel and manly manner - General Dragoljub Mihailovic. I'll remind you that his rehabilitation process is frozen until further notice. The fight against the class enemy, Josip Broz, continues after World War II is over. The question arises whether this law on rehabilitation when you adopt it will shed light on the death of about 180 Serb officers who died in the camp. To remind you of the bombs on that camp, the Allied planes, more specifically American planes, have been dropped at Joseph Broz's request. Joseph Broz feared the return of these officers to their homeland. I'll tell you that those officers who were found dead in this camp by Allied bombs, and at Joseph Broz's request, were part of the same army that Felishal McKenzens wrote about on time -- we fought with fairy tale heroes. These were the same officers and the same army that participated in World War I, for which, to remind you, German Emperor William II said – a pity that this small Serbian people were not my ally. Broz's terror over Serbs will be particularly active when the English side with the communists during World War II. This is the first of many swindlers, frauds that do not cease to this day against the Serbian people. I personally listened from the mouth of the then eyewitnesses that on the border of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia General Draž Mihajlovic, listening to that small Tesla radio on the batteries speech of King Peter II, which ordered that all, including the Chetniks of Draža Mihajlovic, be put under the command of Josip Broz, be shot personally from the parabelum. He was angry that the Allies turned their backs on him. Since then, the maimed Serbia from fascist, one Nazi hell, has entered into another hell, equally dark and cruel. The question arises: will this law on rehabilitation, which you will bring, be able to rehabilitate many who have been tortured and killed by this regime by the Broz regime? Is there a true will for rehabilitation? Will she be able to rehabilitate, for example, Vukosava Takuljac, a refugee from Herzegovina, who escaped from the Ustasha knife and who witnessed the trial of Draža Mihajlovic, a witness who, when she saw the Generals, called - Mr. General. That's what investigative judge Josif Malovic called out -- don't call her that, he's accused of you, what this humble woman told him -- he's accused of you and the Communist party, but not for me and the Serbian people. Since then, she's lost every lead and forever. Will anyone be able to rehabilitate, the question is raised by this law, the Chacan vs. Milan Tucovic, who was sentenced to a time sentence until until one of the announcements entered the cell and told him – come on, Pope, it's time to meet your god? He's alive buried on the shores of West Morava and there's his bones today. He sent Joseph Broz to the world to kill Serbian patriots. In Paris, to remind you, they killed Andra Loncharic. It was a general of the Yugoslav army in the country, one of the elite officers, cut his head in half with an axe in his apartment in Paris. Bora Blagojevic, Petar Valic, Miodrag Boskovic, a writer, were killed in Brussels. That was 153. The question arises – will this law rehabilitate them all? Will their relatives be able to ease or eliminate the suffering they have suffered? Will the Rehabilitation Act, which you will adopt in this assembly, at least a little to ease the suffering of the family of Bogoljub Rakovic, as well as the entire families of Mladenovic, Maksimovic, who are from my environment, who felt the terror of the communist regime of Josip Broz on their skin? Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has indeed not slept peacefully since April 1941. The question arises whether such a law on rehabilitation, as you have suggested here to the Assembly, will at least cure this Serbian insomnia? How to sleep Serbia when the evil that overcame it never fell asleep, because if a Serb sometimes stared at one eye, drowsed one eye, he had to look at the other, look at the neighbor, maybe not sharp knife, or simply not knit an ax or cook a bouquet that will set fire to his feeble family and his house. So, on the one hand Broz, the brothers stood up, the Shipari brothers, etc., so choose what is better for you. This law will neither shed light on nor mitigate, let alone remove all the suffering and terror that Broz's regime carried out after World War II. To remind you, new coins have been followed by Serbs since then – a public traitor, a servant of the occupier, a five-colonaire, a Chetnik pillow, a brotherhood and unity destroyer with the Shiptars, a destroyer of brotherhood and unity with the Croats, and new coins have also gone to new tortures, new crimes, liquidations, confiscations, hearings, harassments, etc. All of this lasted a few decades, all of it lasted to the death of Joseph Brouss. Some of these crimes and terrors, especially political terror, continue today. I can tell you that I personally witnessed and acted on such harassment and hearings. Namely, a Broz security guard in a barracks in the territory of the former Yugoslavia all afternoon interrogated me where my father was during World War II, in which Chetnic units he was in, in which he participated. I was really sorry that at that moment I couldn't show him one piece of paper, which is the order of Chief of Staff of the Supreme Command for November 12, 1942. In this paper, which was personally signed by General Dragoljub Mihajlović and which was stamped with the seal of the Gorski Staff, number one says that my father for brave and heroic conduct in the fight with the enemy and for the services performed for the king and country promoted to a higher rank by Army General Dragoljub Mihajlovic. I was really sorry that I couldn't show him that back then. Will this law at least ease the suffering of the relatives of these 153 martyrs who have been killed in the white world? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you're not a continuation of this Broz policy, if you're not open to any of these and these policies, then the methods you're using are very often the same. Broz sent every moment of every word to Goli Island, and you sent Serbian patriots to The Hague. Is that terror, I ask you? Is it terror when you made a charge here against Dr. Vojislav Seselj and sent him to The Hague, with words – so that he may never return here? Because of this and such terror, you will at some point, I am sure, both before the court and before history, and also before God, in which many of you do not believe. I will end up with one sentence of one of the surviving immigrants in the white world, who wrote a message on his monument – I ask the descendants to transfer my body to my country of Serbia when freedom falls in it. This is how he wrote, when freedom falls in it. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, his family has not yet transferred his body to the country of Serbia. With you in power in Serbia, there is no freedom yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63382	18 minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Time is available for two minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63383	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. In view of the short time, and respecting that Mr Miroslav Markicevic presented most of New Serbia's views on the Rehabilitation Law, I will only supplement with a brief presentation. One logical question arises – why is the Rehabilitation Act adopted at the end of the term of office, which we have found to be truly disharmous in many of its members? As a parliamentary group, we have submitted amendments to the first version of the Law that we have received and I must present my satisfaction and satisfaction to the parliamentary group, that many of our amendments are then respected and that in this second version of the law we have seen that there has been hearing about the suggestions we have given. Given that New Serbia fully supports the position set out in Article 3 of this Act, Article 1st Rehabilitation of the determination of the futility of acts and actions to which the persons referred to in Article 1(1) of this Law are deprived of life, freedom or other rights for political, religious, national or ideological reasons. So we think all victims, any kind of violence of this kind, should be rehabilitated, deserve a grave, deserve that respect that belongs to the victims. But at the same time, we believe that all the guilty and all the executioners must also be responsible for what they did. In the name of it, just as Mr Markicevic said, we do not think that this law has fully worked out the problem, so it could be called such a single legal drill and flirting with this very important historical problem of the Serbian people and the historic division within the Serbian people. So, this law could deepen many of the problems that Serbia still face, which Serbia is still sensitive to and which Serbia has to solve to keep history going and to get some things back to the place of history, and not to go back to history. That is why, in order not to be the former executioners, mentioned by Mr Markicevic, would again be the champions of democracy and represent Serbia in the world. So this is what we owe these victims and in the name of it, New Serbia will, through its amendments that we have submitted to this second text of the law, explain all our views and expect full understanding. We really expect the victims of these times to be rehabilitated in the right way in Serbia. They deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63384	The word is from MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Nikola Žutic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63385	I thank Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us, I don't know if I should call this either the Rehabilitation Law or the amendment and addition of the Law some months or forty days ago. In that context, we really won't stick to a lot of historical facts and details, for one reason that, especially not the victims, and those that are foreseen by this law on rehabilitation for a reason not to forget someone. That is why my esteemed colleague, Mrs Tabakovic, and I will also talk mainly about our grudges, the ensuing SNS group's objections about amendments to this bill and in terms of how one of the ruling coalition's colleagues said their short address, the future of Serbia, which is the goal of all of us. Our amendment and amendment proposal is designed to make this law much better, to make it good and not to leave another dead letter on paper in a series of laws that we have passed. When we talk about World War II, I have to ask those who are the principles of this topic that, after 66 years, unfortunately, we are still talking about some of our tragic divisions, to look at the acts that were placed in an American college by 2005. For reasons of power in the former SFRY, and after that in the Republic of Serbia, for various reasons, since 2005, there has been an archive of Yugoslavia, records from the time when Prince Pavle, from 1931 to 1941, led this country, and situations ahead of occupation, namely the attack of Germany and the inevitable situation in the war with Germany, that the then Kingdom of SHS army had only a piece and number of 800,000 bullets and was able to war for the entire 16 days. The causes of these documents in that period of 10 years are the causes of the period that arises, for the period after 66 years, which we are talking about today. For all of this, I urge you all to accept our good amendment proposals, as well as other parliamentary groups, so that this issue will not, over 10 years, address issues of 40 and some years, or 1945, or any later period. Since Mrs Tabakovic said, and this is also the fact, that we have tried our amendment proposals to more precisely regulate the issues of the right to rehabilitation and remove some illogicalities, failures, and, as counterpart Petronijevic said, about Article 1. It's a bill of law. The opinion of the SNS is that, given the fact that the subject matter of the law, i.e. Article 1 deals with the period since World War II, it should have some time frames. Because of all this, we believe that these time limits should begin, I'm sure, from July 4, 1941. years as the historic day of beginning to fight the occupiers, i.e. against one great and terrible ill ideology, i.e. Fascism. What is mentioned earlier, why we have sought to delete point 2 which we really consider very similar and very important, and I will repeat that once again, that is why it is unacceptable that the Republic of Serbia imposes on itself and gives itself the right to deal with the debate of events that took place in other countries' territory. It may have been everyone in a certain period, and I mean Yugoslav spaces, one state, but now it's a larger number of countries that have been created in these areas. We simply get involved in problems and relations with the laws of other states. First of all, we don't have the authority to do that. Once again, I would like to underline that we believe that attitude 2 is true. The draft law referred to in Article 1 must be deleted, because the Republic of Serbia cannot, and we cannot, in this Parliament and the esteemed home, decide for all actions and for all failures and obligations of the state on whose territory a certain action is and is created, or done at that time. As regards Article 1, we requested an intervention of the amendments in point 4. In paragraph 2, it is absolutely pointless to prescribe certain conditions for rehabilitation, that a decision depriving someone of rights for prohibited reasons is made against the principles of the rule of law and generally accepted standards of human rights and freedom. It is enough and in itself clear that this is about illegal reasons for dispensing rights. If this position, I underline once again, remains in the law, it would mean that someone is allowed to take a life or another right because of the belonging of a particular nation or religion, if a formal procedure is respected. Also, I have to go back to Article 2 one more time and point him out. We asked for a change in the entire article of the 2nd. that the right to rehabilitation can be exercised by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been convicted of belonging to occupation forces and Quislin formations during World War II if they have been forced to mobilize, provided that they have not committed war or other crimes as members of the occupation forces and Quislin formations. The person referred to in Article 1 of this Article who is rehabilitated for belonging to occupation forces and Quislin formations may obtain only the right to recover seized property in accordance with the law governing the return of confiscated property and damages and cannot obtain other rights under this law. Article 2 proposed. The bill is so poorly written in a language and normative technical sense and it is so vague that we have responded with such an amendment solution. It is amazing that, instead of a positive formulation, a negative formulation is used in one bill, as you have done in Article 2. The bill also states that this negative formulation is being implemented through the context of the proposal for this law. It is inappropriate and unknown to legal frameworks, but you have tried to drag that negative formulation through the whole context of the law by this proposal, that is, by the position of Article 1(2). The consistent interpretation of your proposal for article 1 of Article 2 leads to the conclusion that it enables the rehabilitation of all members of the occupation forces and quincessic formations, regardless of nationality and how they are handled, which would thus acquire all the rights of this law, including the pension internship, the compensation of immaterial damages, monthly fees, special allowances, rehabilitation allowances, what counterpart Omerovic specifically said in this context. That height and that compensation is approximately 50% of the average of one average good pension in Serbia and plus that special compensation. Indeed, are we so rich a country or have you really made so many steps in all this over the past 10 years that we have enough resources to burden Serbia's citizens enough with the means mentioned in the draft of this law? We're not opponents of all these compensations, but if there's a basis, it's 50% compensation, then there's no reason to have some special bonuses at 10%. Once again, I must underline and mention the fact that the bill doubles, i.e. for four years, that it replaces eight years. It's not even a small thing in the bill and it's quite the same and enough. There have already been a lot of comments on Article 3 and I don't want to be too long on that story. What were we looking for in Article 5? We asked for the first word: "law" to be replaced by the words "laws and decisions of the competent authorities". Why is it the SNS' opinion that this correction of the mentioned Article 5 of Article 2 should be carried out? For reasons that it must be borne in mind that especially during the period of occupation and after the release of Serbia-Yugoslavia, they had no congregations, especially during the period of occupation, which they could occupy and pass laws. The regulations were passed on free territories and the formation of congregations was brought by authorities and we cannot challenge the legitimacy of these bodies. For all of this, you have clearly ruled out the fact of the rules adopted during that period, because there are no laws passed during that period. So there weren't any congregations, there wasn't a body that would pass the laws, and you're talking about laws. In this period, there are literally no laws passed, except especially during the period of occupation and liberation war when regulations were only passed and legitimate authorities adopted during that period. As a result, it is not necessary to forget the rules adopted during that period, and because they are released from this text, really part of some bad story can be put on the burden of former Yugoslavia, especially the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that, necessarily, you must correct this formulation, that the legal frameworks would be respected and that the regulations adopted during that period would indeed be on the side of the then state, especially the Republic of Serbia. The rules laid down in points 2 to 5 were the legitimate basis for taking criminal measures to prevent acts harmful to the state and citizens, so that the meaning and legal logic of having these rules derivated almost without any explanation were deprived. Should this simply be translated to mean that the next government, after this government, should do the same thing? Some of the work proposed for rehabilitation exists today, indeed, in some altered sense, or context, and without this law. If someone purposely and falsely presented opportunities in Serbia, should he be rehabilitated for his crime? This is indeed a crime done and should not be removed from the context of this law's proposal. It is completely incomprehensible that someone who has acted maliciously should now enter the rehabilitation process. Today, there is also a crime of demeaning the Republic of Serbia, which is essentially the same. For example, illicit trade and sabotage continue to exist in the Criminal Law. Because of all this, I'm telling you that the Criminal Law regulates part of this matter, and there was no need to regulate itself in the context of the proposal of the members of this law. It is also amazing that point 5 states that those who have caused national, racial and religious hatred will only be rehabilitated by writing, with all the rights to compensation. The challenge of national, racial or religious hatred to the current Criminal Law is prescribed in Article 317 as a serious crime, and not taking into account the way it was committed, so it is impossible from a legal point of view to rehabilitate those who have committed such a writing act. It makes no sense that the presentation of a particular content in writing is not a criminal offence, and oral expression is a crime. For example, as an example of all of this, I give you the situation that the one who quoted out loud, or read someone else's text, is not the one who wrote the text. It's also related to point 5. The bill, for this situation, and contrary to Article 317. Criminal law. We have made some remarks, and we will also comment in the amendments, but I simply want us to come to a situation where, before the amendments are discussed, you understand the essence and importance, even some language formulations of part of the text you wrote and the legal-technical editorials, and that this text must suffer changes before voting on it, and all because of its practical application, not to be contrary to the other regulations and the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, and in the text part of the text, this bill has indeed been done in such a way. Once again, I must point out that in the Return Act, the property and the compensation has been seized has been prescribed for a period of two years since the entry into force of the claim to return the property. That's what my colleague Tabakovic was talking about. It is very important when this law was passed that time limits, which are in contradiction with this law, are in line. We've really submitted the amendment back then, and you've gone beyond that. The same ministry makes proposals for two laws. The same ministry and the same people working on the draft laws in this text give different legal frameworks compared to the law mentioned. It's just amazing, but this is what our practice of laws that come into congregation procedure and what is the practice of their implementation in the period that is after the adoption of these laws, or their adoption. (President: National MP, the time available for parliamentary groups has been used. ) Whether, unfortunately, this law will remain a dead letter on paper really only depends on your willingness to accept and propose and amend other parties that will make this law better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63386	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Žutic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and it is the last registered speaker in the application for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I recently spoke in the Assembly about the Law on the Old and Rare Serbian Book and eventually found that the law does not protect an old and rare Serbian book outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Under the same criteria of writing, this law on rehabilitation does not provide for the protection and rehabilitation of Serbian historical figures, prominent citizens living, as well as those living today in the territories of the anti-Serbian states of the former SFRY. Already after reading article 1 of this law, I became convinced that the Serb history segment is related to the rehabilitation of the unjustly accused and convicted, and then to the liquidated Serbs of different religions, left at the mercy of today's anti-Serbian regimes. That is why I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. A bill, in which I propose to allow the rehabilitation of the trans-Drin, Montenegrin and Macedonian Serbs. In the light of the amendment, I have stated that the amendments referred to in Article 1 shall be amended accordingly. The bill provides for the possibility of rehabilitating Serbs of the monarchist republican Yugoslavia, who lived or are still living in the current countries of the former Yugoslavia, who did not have or do not have a valid citizenship of the Republic of Serbia today. Under the existing provisions of the bill, the above-mentioned categories of Serbs have been forgotten and legally unprotected, leaving themselves to the mercy of the former Yugoslavia's state, which, apart from Republika Srpska, will certainly not trigger the rehabilitation of a Serb. The fact is that the historic and geopolitical space of possible rehabilitation of Serbs through the history of the second half of the 20th century has fallen drastically. The provisions of this law exactly fully respect the reduced national space of the Serb people and thus leave many Serbs without the possibility of legal rehabilitation. On the other hand, this law further legally contributes to establishing the limits of violently established, after externally imposed wars. By law, therefore, Western Serbian countries are simply wiped out in this legal area as well. We in the SRS otherwise advocate that the right to rehabilitation must be all Serbs, and particularly participants in two anti-fascist movements: Chetniks and Partisans. If such a law is passed in this form, I wonder how we will rehabilitate the Krajina, Montenegrin and Bosnian-Herzegovina Serbs who died in communist cleanup during and after World War II. I wonder, further, who will rehabilitate the Serb partisans who, with the help of the Serb communists, have liquidated without trial during and after World War II? It will certainly not be done by today's Franckavian anti-Serbian government, nor will the Montenegrin government, which is based on the communist tradition of the liquidation of Montenegrin Serbs. Just give examples of the liquidation of Serb Chetniks from the Vasojevic tribe of prominent Broz comrades, such as. Vukanovic, Tempo or Jovan Kapidzic, who conducted torture over goloto campers and who still boasts today about his Sundays. I'm going to mention the case of writer Mile Dakiæ. He was recently arrested at the Rac border crossing and sent to prison in Sarajevo. A historian and writer who had just spent most of his life fighting for the truth about genocide against the Serb people in NDH, the irony of fate was condemned in 1999 by heirs of Croatian executioners from 1941 over 20 years in prison for allegedly urging a group of Kordunos from Vojnic to locate Croatian police officers in August 1991. Mile Dakic, since his boys' day, was an eyewitness to the killings committed by the Croatian Ustashas during the formation of a ring around the freed Petrova up and 1942, through the MASK movement of Croatian separatists in 1971, until the war to defend Republika Srpska Krajina and the persecution of Krajisnik in 1995, Dakic was faced with a major Croatian monstrous project of complete physical elimination of Orthodox Serbs from their premises, which eventually became the premises of Croatia. It is scandalous that the Republic of Serbia is not at all seeking to defend the fundamental human rights of a Serbian intellectual, its citizen, whose only fault is that of writing about Croatian mass crimes in NDH and the crimes committed in the war for the survival of the Krajina in 1991 and 1995, while, on the other hand, on the other hand, the accused Croatian criminal Purda Serbia completely removes all responsibility for the crimes, the release from the indictment. If, God forbid, Dakic is charged, some future Serbian government will have to initiate a rehabilitation procedure for innocently arrested Mile Dakic. Otherwise, Dakic wrote about the death of Partisan intellectuals from Kordun in 1943 and 1944, who discovered communist negotiations with the Germans in Kordun, where the central authorities of the Croatian NOP were present at the time. Croatian communists have dealt drastically with Serbian intellectuals Kordun in the known "Budac process". It is known that the communists in Kordun have killed hundreds of people who have been killed almost innocent, without a court, and a small part after the court's verdict and because of innocent mistakes and individual suspicions. There's a reason for rehabilitating these people who should start the Republic of Serbia as well. historian Dr. Veselin Djuretic, in the text "Titoistic Communism and Serbian existential dialectics", "has given an excellent analysis of Serbian anti-fascism and a proposal for possible reconciliation of two uncompromising camps". I will quote Djuretic: "All Serbian military positions were objectively anti-fascist, all leaders of Serbian resistance deserve monuments of gratitude. Such a court rests on two general facts, on the fact that the war was declared to the Serbs as a people, that they were defending themselves as a people. The second fact is that their defences were stalled and brother-killed under the influence of a communist titoist factor." Djuretic goes on to say, "The monument of gratitude deserves the Partisan side because of the heroic struggles in the end of the war, along with the forces of the Red Army, which represented the fist of impact. "The monument of gratitude, according to Djuretic, deserves many heroes of the Partisan movement, whether they were manipulated or not, because their basic commitment was patriotic. Croatia's NOP leaders, according to Djuretic, such as Andrija Hebrang, Vladimir Bakarić, Josip Đerđe, Steve Kraćic, Vjećeslav Holjevac, Ivo Rukavina and others, were not, in essence, different from the Serbian people, for example. from Ante Pavelic, Mile Vodak, Eugen Quaternik and others in the peaks of NDH. All thoughts, according to Djuretic, were directed towards the destruction, weakness and disappearance of Serbs in Croatia, according to the weakening of the Serbian component at the level of Yugoslavia, by the fact that Croatian communists were far more dangerous, as they infiltrated among Serbs and their politics led from the dead. In addition to the innocently injured Serbian partisans who only voiced doubts about the justice of Broz's communists' strategy, as it was moving more and more in the anti-Serbian direction, members of the Yugoslav Army in the country of General Dragoljub Dragolovic suffered even more. Since this National Assembly has voted in time for the Resolution on the Antifascism of Dragoljub Mihajlovic's Movement, it is necessary, in accordance with it, to initiate the rehabilitation process of the Eknogoracs all three religions. I'll give you some examples. For example, numerous Serbs of Islamic faith who participated in units of the Yugoslav Army in the country. I will only mention prominent Muslim intellectuals, e.g. writer Mustafa Mulalic, born in Livno, who was a national MP in 1931 and sat in this hall in 1937, was for a time also the first secretary of the National Assembly of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. There are individuals: Konholjdzic, Mujo Pasic. They also belonged to Muslim Equality Units. These were Muslim military organisations in the Muslim National Military Organisation of the Yugoslav Army in the country. Those units were at the brigade level. Serbs need to be rehabilitated and Dalmatian Roman Catholics, Chetniks, especially in Split and the surrounding area. On one occasion, about 40, 1942, it went to the camp of the Duke of Momčal Djujic at Dinar. Among Dalmatian Split's Egagorians were prominent writers, intellectuals, Roman Catholics, Croats, who encouraged old Serb-Catholic Dalmatian families. The scribe Niko Bartulovic from Hvar was close to the Duke of Bircanin, and then the Duke of Žujovic, who were commanders of the Chetnic Units of Dalmatia and Like. Bartulovic, by the way, was a close friend of Ivo Andric, Viktor Novak, Vladimir Corovic. He was otherwise a liberal, a Mason, an anti-cleric, an anti-Nazi and anti-fascist, so the great Yugoslav. However, as such without trial, he was liquidated from Broz's communists somewhere near Topusko in Croatia in the spring of 1945. I propose that the minister of justice, which is unfortunately not here, propose to launch a rehabilitation procedure that can be legitimately initiated according to the provisions of this bill, because Bartulovic had Yugoslav citizenship, a residence in Belgrade from 1926 until his escape from Belgrade on 6 April 1941. Another prominent writer, Djuro Vilovic, from Brela near Makarska, was also at Draža Mihajlovic's headquarters and a participant of the Belgrade-based Svetosavski Congress in the village of Ba44. He acted only as a propagandist, a writer of articles in the Montenegrin newspaper, but was convicted as such in the joint process of Draža Mihajlovic with another twenty-three, himself seven years in prison. So he was convicted of writing and speech delicacy, similar to that of Professor Dr. Seselj in The Hague. Bartulovic and Vilovic never had Croatian citizenship, which in their time did not exist, but only Yugoslav. As a result of the above cases in the bill, a provision on Yugoslav citizenship of rehabilitation candidates should also be introduced in addition to Serbian. The Serbian Radical Party has already culturally rehabilitated these two Dalmatians by publishing their books and articles. So they're culturally, scientifically rehabilitated. There's just a lack of proper judicial rehabilitation to get their size full. Among 24 indictees, together with Mihajlovic, were present, the 1946 process, including prominent intellectuals, statesmen, politicians of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. For example: Dr. Stevan Moljević, Dr. Živko Topalović, who was otherwise a socialist of the Social Democrats, famous lawyer Slobodan Jovanovic, Dr. Bozidar Purić, Dr. Momcilo Ninčić, Radoje Knezevic, Dr. Milan Gavrilović, ŽivanKnezevic, diplomat Konstantin Fotic, Dr. Laza Marković and Dr. Costa Kumanudi. Some of them, thank God, are rehabilitated, but most of them are not yet. The indictment with Draž Mihajlovic also included members of the commissioner's administration, so-called "Majajlovic". Nedic's governments. They belonged to another ideological camp, as the Chetnik movement is liberal-democratic, since most of the leaders were usually Liberals. So there were corporate workers Dragi Jovanovic, Tanasija Tasa Dinic, Velibor Jonic, who should not be the subject of this rehabilitation. We are all in agreement with their ideological political strategy and unfortunately criminal action during World War II in Serbia. During the process, Draža Mihajlovic would certainly have been a prominent Yugoslav falcon from Gospic, Dr Petar Zec, but he was killed in communist cleaners in Serbia in 1945. And Dr. Zac, as a prominent intellectual and great Yugoslav, could certainly be the subject of rehabilitation. Due to limited time, they cannot mention other Serbia's, Catholic and Croatian origins, which today's Croatian authorities will certainly never rehabilitate. Because of all of the above, the rehabilitation of Serbs from all ex-Yugoslavia areas can only be carried out by Serbia, but only with an amended and updated Article 1 of this law, which I have proposed before the SRS. A major rehabilitation job should be done by the Serbian state, therefore, but only a national Serbian state that protects the general Serbian national interests. This existing government, which is limited by the borders of this unfortunate constantly shrinking state, will have a much easier job since the rehabilitation issue, as I have already said, is constantly decreasing in proportion to the reduction of Serbian borders and thus the disappearance of Serbian citizenship, which this law has established as an obstacle to Serbia's overall rehabilitation, to mention again only those Serbs innocently accused and liquidated. Finally, I would like to mention that some courts in Serbia have successfully rehabilitated the innocent or innocently liquidated. That's how it is, for example. The Valjevo district court, on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the District Court in Valjevo, which was the oldest court in Serbia in 2007, rehabilitated 47 innocently accused Montenegrins, intellectuals, respected Serb hosts. The 2009 team published the book "Reborn, Re-Dignant". The Valjev example, in conclusion, is the best example of a successful rehabilitation of the innocent and liquidated Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63388	Eighteen minutes used by the MP's group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63389	Only if you'd be so kind as to tell me how much time I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63390	Thirty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63391	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the ones who proposed the Rehabilitation Act, had one hidden intention, which is to get the attention of the citizens of Serbia from real and really big social, political and economic problems, to focus on issues that have long been overcome by the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people. The Serbian government apparently wanted to spark public opinion in Serbia and artificially impose a debate on a subject that is not vital to Serbian citizens. Why am I saying this? Serbs made national reconciliation early in the 1990s when they organised to defend the Serb people in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, then it was done in the right sense, national reconciliation and those whose fathers and grandfathers in World War II were Partisans and Chetniks. All of them, in this country's war between 1941 and 1945, who participated in the defence of the Serb people and these Western Serb states, viewed themselves as Chetniks and none of them in Republika Srpska, or Republika Srpska, or in the Republika Srpska army, or in volunteer formations of themselves as partisans. So, in this sense, this topic was resolved for the Serbian people, for most Serbs twenty years ago. What kind of law is this? This is a law that is completely quarked in both legal and political terms, a lifeless law, a law that will not be applied in practice. The SRS has a whole series of very sharp objections to the bill. In Article 1, which means - This law regulates rehabilitation and the legal consequences of rehabilitation of persons who are for political, religious, national or ideological reasons deprived of life, freedom or other rights until the day of entry into force of this law. Excuse me and Nazism is some political or ideological reason. Does this mean that those who represented this deep anti-human ideology can now seek rehabilitation under this law. In Article 2, you said who does not have the right to rehabilitation – those who are members of the occupation forces and members of the Quinspasian formations. But there are many who were not formally in uniform, but also how they represented Nazi fascist ideology during World War II in Serbia. What do we do with them? Do you want to rehabilitate them, too? The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against it. In Article 1 You have some formulas that I can't believe the proposer put in the bill. In Article 1(2), you say that the right to rehab, among other things, has persons outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia who have suffered without a judicial or administrative decision, military and other Yugoslav authorities if they have or have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Since the bill refers to events at the very end of World War II and right after World War II, then there was no Republic of Serbia in today's sense of the word, the Republic of Serbia as a state-law and political concept since 1990, since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 28 September 1990. Until then, there was the National Republic of Serbia, or the Socialist Republic of Serbia, but the Republic of Serbia was neither in 1944 nor in 1945 nor in 1948 nor 1955, the Republic of Serbia was established as a federal unit in the SFRY in 1990, and as an independent state in 2006, after Milo Djukanovic in a forged referendum separated Montenegro from Serbia and broke the SCG state union. Also, in Article 2. You say the bill does not have the right to rehabilitate all persons who have been declared war criminals or war crimes participants since the day of the release of a post. Gentlemen, this also applies to the famous Belgrade University professor mentioned by counterpart Ljubic, Slobodan Jovanovic. He was sentenced to a mounted political process in 1946, in which, among other things, General Draža Mihajlovic and a large group of politically engaged persons, some of whom belonged to Nedic's government, some of whom served as ministers of the royal government in London. Slobodan Jovanovic served as president of the Yugoslav government in London from January 1942 to June 1943 and representative of Army, Navy and Air Force Minister Draža Mihajlovic, who has been a member of the Slobodan Jovanovic government since 11 January 1942. So he was a minister in the government, but he was not in London, but in occupied territories of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Tom Slobodan Jovanovic was tried by the same court that tried Drazi Mihajlovic. Does this mean that now, for example, one Slobodan Jovanovic, under this bill, will not have the right to be rehabilitated because he has been sentenced by a military court or by another body under the control of the National Committee for Liberation of Yugoslavia and has been declared after the release of a certain place, although it is a very bad formulation, for a war criminal or war criminal in war crimes. One top intellectual, one erudite, head of Belgrade University, the famous professor of Law School in Belgrade and our so far greatest legal theorist, who absolutely did not participate in any war crimes, which did not encourage war crimes, which was deeply anti-fascistly defined, the FNRJ military court convicted him as a war criminal for 20 years of serious imprisonment, confiscation of property and deprivement of all civil and political rights. Under this bill, he cannot be rehabilitated because he was convicted by a military court, which is totally unacceptable for the SRS. It is not clear what the promoter had in mind when he used the formulae of the Quinspecies formation that they committed or participated in the execution of war crimes. For some of these formations, it is not at all questionable that they were fascist, or that they were in the service of the occupier, for some others it is controversial. Since you have an ideological cacophony in the ruling coalition itself, and since the Serbian government itself has not been clear about what the Quinceptic formations are, they have only inserted that aggregate expression of the quincepical formation without a more detailed analysis of which World War II military formations are thought to be when they are said to be quinspeaks. Here today you've had a chance to hear that in the ruling coalition you have the ibeans, you have the brushes, you have the partisans. Who knows, if someone called, there might be some Ustasha. Such a ruling coalition has proposed and will vote in favour of the bill. They don't really know what the meaning of this bill is and what the objective of this bill is to achieve. What goal will you achieve with this law? You will achieve that you will not rehabilitate those who need to be rehabilitated and that you will rehabilitate those who must not be rehabilitated. Who are you going to rehabilitate? Article 5 of the law also rehabilitates persons who have been declared war criminals, or war crimes participants, who have not lost Yugoslav citizenship and have not committed or participated in the execution of war crimes. In translation, these are the Germans of Vojvodina, so-called The folks. In 99% of the cases, they absolutely supported Germany, the occupation government both in Vojvodina and out of Vojvodina. The greatest collaboration with one occupation was precisely on the territory of the Vojvodina by the duchy Germans, whether you like it or not. The co-operation was greatly credited with the infamous Kulturbunt, which was formed in 1920 in the Kingdom of SHS. At the end of 1934, the predominant in Kulturbunt, Yugoslavia, has the so-called so-called "Culturbunt". The rebuilding movement that was under Hitler's control. From 1934 to 1941 Kulturbunt was the fifth column in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and prepared the ground for the occupation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia by Germany in 1941. The largest number of Germans living in Vojvodina, but also in Slavonia, Baranja, absolutely not only supported the German occupation policy but also actively participated in the crimes that took place in the territory of occupied Yugoslavia in World War II. We gave you this historical fact when we talked about the Restitution Act. The notorious 7th SS Division, Prince Eugen, who committed mass crimes against the Serbian people in Kozara in the summer of 1942 was formed just by the folks of Vojvodina. Now you're going to rehabilitate these laws and those because they were allegedly declared war criminals on the principle of collective responsibility, but in doing so, I have to remind you of another historical fact, Yugoslavia was not the only one who carried out collective retaliatory against the Germans. It was done by both Czechoslovakia and Poland and some other countries where the Germans committed terrible crimes, but after a decision by the Allied Conference in August 1945. The Allies of Americans, British, French, and Soviets at the Allied Conference held in Germany in August 1945 gave Yugoslavia the right to collectively banish the Germans for crimes committed during World War II because these crimes were massive and were extremely cruel. It is possible that there were individuals of the German national minority in Vojvodina who were objectively not involved in crimes and who opposed these crimes, but generally the German collaboration in Vojvodina with the occupier was mass, deep and absolutely based on the ideology of Nazism. There was no difference between the Germans who came from Germany to Yugoslavia and those who were born in Yugoslavia, who were in fact "the Fifth Column" compared to the country they lived in. You will now, with this law, rehabilitate people like that. The Serbian Radical Party is against it. That's what you're doing. You're doing it not only to rehabilitate people who were folks or their descendants, but to enable them to recover their property. Already, you have many dukeic places of German excursion that are the descendants of these folksdojcers and who come, say in Pančevo, Vršac, Zrenjanin, etc., to the estates that once belonged to their fathers and grandfathers and literally threaten the Serbs who live here now -- you won't be there much longer, it was once ours and will be again. You are now giving the legal basis for Vojvodina to be Germany again. I must remind you, by 1941, the Germans in Vojvodina owned most of the land, most of the woods, most of the mills, most of the trade shops, etc. By the law of restitution you took away property, you gave them back their property. With this bill, if you adopt it, you will perform a legal rehabilitation of those who have worked massively with the German occupier and who have massively participated in crimes against the Serb people. What does that mean in a political sense? That means you're actually pushing the Vojvodina into the arms of a German. You are reviving the idea of Austro-Hungarian, of some Danube Federation which would be made by Slovenia, Croatia, Vojvodina, Hungary, Austria. All these ideas already exist for many years. These ideas, among other things, were represented by a man whom we Serbs, probably out of ignorance, believe to be our friend, British Prime Minister of World War II Winston Churchill. In his World War II memoirs, he wrote in the fifth book, called "The Hub is tightening," that it was a huge mistake for allies after the First World War to break down Austro-Hungarians and to allow, among other things, the formation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. He suggested that a Catholic Danube Federation be formed in exchange for Austro-Hungarian. Doesn't this look like one of those projects? You will return the property to the Germans, now you will say that they were not war criminals and that we are Serbs in fact living in Vojvodina's intruder on our own country. Well, that's a message from this bill. It's a message from the Restitution Act. That's the background, that's the subtext, that's what it says between the lines and that law and this bill that we're discussing today. I simply have to look back on what a representative of the ruling coalition was saying here, since you have more wings in the ruling coalition. He's a representative of this ibeo wing. So he talked about how to rehabilitate the members, or people who supported the Resolution of Informburo, because they had not organized themselves at all, they were not objectively a threat to anyone, but were victims of various plantings, secret conversations, listening, snitching, etc., so they were sent to the Goli Island etc. The gentleman who talked about it supported the Infobiro Resolution, which wrote – that the Information Bureau of Communist and Workers' Party condemns the regime in Yugoslavia, condemns the click, according to Tito-Rankovic, as American spies. The same man stands for the EU today. In 1948, he thought the regime was pro-American, that it had retreated... (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: There's no point...) What are you nervous about, Mrs. Nado? What doesn't make sense, that he supported the Infobiro Resolution?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63392	Please, without direct communication, it is forbidden the Rules of Procedure of the People's Members to use their time as part of the topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63393	The 1948 Infobiro Resolution said that the Information Bureau of Communist and Workers' Party condemns the click by Tito – Rankovic as American spies. To this gentleman, the regime of Titov and Rankovic was not communist enough. He was pro-American. It wasn't enough in the spirit of Marxism and Leninism's ideology. Today, this same man is giving us lessons on the EU, on Eurointegration, on human rights and freedoms, on equality, on mondialysm, on liberalism etc. In 1968, he asked for the Belgrade University to be called the Red University of Karl Marks. You can't live with him today, his lessons about democracy and human rights. Now I'm talking about that ibean wing in the ruling coalition. I'm not going to say anything about these fake Chetniks and the fake partisans. If Draža Mihajlovic were alive, for what some say, and allegedly advocated his ideas, they would probably have been shot. Because I can't understand that someone for Draža Mihajlovic, for Ravna Gora, is for the ideas that this man fought for, and he entered the Turn coalition, where one of the key figures is this infamous Jovo Kapičić, who regrets not killing more ideological enemies. This is an entirely incredible ideological and political combination. We are for Europe, for the EU, for liberal ideas, for the NATO Pact, and our partner in this business is former Tito General Jovo Kapičić, who regrets -- yes, I killed many Serbs and Montenegrins on the Golo Island, all of them being thugs, Stalin's mercenaries, etc., but where did I not kill them anymore? We now need to believe that these are people who want Serbia well, that it is a great famous coalition of Turn that should lead us into some promised paradise on a country called the EU. Should we go to the EU with Jova Kapicica, with the ibeovs? I'm sorry, they won't see you. When they hear who is leading Serbia into the EU, they will say for ideological reasons – people, you don't belong here, Stalin died a long time ago. As for, now, to ignore these ideological moments, because we have shown on the case of some MPs from the ruling coalition that in fact there is no telling who is in favour of rehabizing what personalities. Some would like to rehabilitate Stalin, some Draža, some Tito, who knows who doesn't. It is not clear to them themselves what the objective of this law is and what are the political ideas that should be rehabilitated when this law is passed. That's what we showed. Now let's see what the bill looks like in purely legal light. Here's what it looks like. Let's get in line. You say in Article 4. – the types of rehabilitation, persons referred to in Article 1(1) of this Act are rehabilitated under the force of the law, that is legal rehabilitation or judicial decision, judicial rehabilitation. A man doesn't have to be a lawyer so he can figure out when he's legally rehabilitated, so by the force of the law, someone's rehabilitated. There's no need for any state authority other than the National Assembly to deal with this problem. So when something by law enforcement, then there is no need to make a court decision or to make an administrative act. But that's not the case with you. Here's what it says in Article 14. It's a bill of law. It says – in a request for rehabilitation of persons under Article 5 of this Act, which is legal rehabilitation, the court decides in a unilateral procedure under the rules of non-partisan procedure, with the obligation to obtain the opinion of the competent senior public prosecutor. So what kind of legal rehabilitation is this if it is decided by the court in a unilateral procedure under the rules of out-of-party proceedings? Then it's not legal rehabilitation, it's not law enforcement, it's a court decision. Now, Article 5, that famous legal rehabilitation of yours, it doesn't actually have, but it's all judicial rehabilitation. In Article 5, paragraph 1, point 1, you say – by force of the law, the persons are rehabilitated, etc., inter alia, point 1. – for an act which was not laid down by law at the time of the operation as a criminal offence or punishment which was not prescribed at the time of the execution. I wish, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, to draw your attention to how dangerous this provision is and to what extent you do not know the matter you want to deal with. At the time of World War II and Yugoslavia, both outside Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union, and Poland, both Czechoslovakia and some other European countries, a terrible crime was committed, a crime of genocide. At a time when genocide was committed in Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, in the Soviet Union, no state in its criminal law intended to commit genocide. The Convention on the Prevention of Genocides was adopted in 1948, and only after that, after 1948, the criminal laws of European and non-European states envision genocide as a criminal offence. What does that mean? Well, at the time of World War II in Yugoslavia, there was no law on the crime of genocide. That means the right to legal rehabilitation has people who took part in genocide? Why? Because they carried out an act that was not defined by law as a criminal act at the time of the act, or by a penalty that was not prescribed at the time of the execution. All those who have committed genocide against Serbs will now be able to say – I am sorry, I was committing genocide, and at the time I was killing Serbs, this law was not prescribed as genocide and I am asked to be implemented by the Rehabilitation Act, Article 5, and to allow me to be legally rehabilitated. It is that I participated in the killing of hundreds of thousands of Serbs, but at the time I did so, the criminal code of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia that was in force at the time, did not predict genocide as a crime. Here, such an amazing thing, you've put into the Rehabilitation Act. Furthermore, I'm sorry they're not representatives of the Justice Department here, but in the right sense of that word, it's an honor to the gentleman who sits here, but I think he's more of a political decor here than he's seriously involved in this debate. So the laws in the Republic of Serbia should be mutually uniform, both in content and in terms of terminology. You don't do that. In Article 7, you say - a rehabilitation request can be filed, so at point 2 after the death of the person referred to in Article 1(1) of this Act, a spouse, an extramarital partner, children, etc. and willful heirs. Why am I saying this? Well, since 1995, when the current law on inheritance was passed, the word " will and will" has been deleted and the old Serbian word "knowledge" is used. I don't understand why they're not legacy heirs, they're willful heirs. If the Law on Inheritance writes one thing and uses one termology, I see no reason why this same terminology is not used in the Rehabilitation Law proposal. There is something far more serious than this remark. In Article 14, you said, when it comes to this legal rehabilitation that we have proven is not legal but is once again judicial rehabilitation – if, in the opinion of the competent public prosecutor, a request for rehabilitation under Article 1 of this Article is contested, the further procedure will continue in accordance with the provision laid down in Article 3 of this Article. What does it say in Section 3? At the request of the rehabilitation referred to in Article 1(1) of point 3 and 4 of this Act, except for the request of the person referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the court shall decide, be careful, in a two-party procedure under the rules of the non-partisan procedure and as another participant in the procedure shall be obliged to participate in the Republic of Serbia represented by the competent senior public prosecutor. What's the outsider procedure? The very word tells him, a procedure in which there is no dispute. There's an obvious dispute here. Who's in the dispute here? The one who filed for rehabilitation and the senior public prosecutor who disagreed with the rehabilitation. Here you have two sides that are opposite. This one demands rehabilitation, and the senior public prosecutor says – no, it should not be rehabilitated. Do you have any decent lawyers in the ruling coalition or do you, Mr. Government, explain to me how the court is going to settle this dispute under the rules of the outsider procedure? It's obvious there's a slow one. Since when does the Act of Out-of-Parking Procedure apply to disputed situations? After all, there is no outsider procedure, but there is a whole series of outsider procedures. One is a desert procedure, a land library procedure, a procedure for granting a minor permission to enter and marriage, etc. Tell me, which of these extraparate procedures will you apply to legal rehabilitation, in a situation where there is obviously conflict, a legal conflict between applicants for rehabilitation and this senior public prosecutor? What's the procedure going to look like? This law is completely inadmissible. You can't apply a law that doesn't treat the disputes at all, but beyond the disputed situation. A lawsuit means slow. The outside room means there's no dispute. To one disputed situation you will apply the Act of Off-pard procedure, only that you have written which – desert or other extraparnical procedure. This is ridiculous. This is to the extent that it's wrongly written that I simply can't believe that no one in the government, that no one in the Republic's Legislative Secretariat has noticed anything like this. Now let's see on. In Article 26, you say, the right to rehabilitation damage, the persons referred to in Article 21(2) of this law, have the right to compensation for immaterial damage to mental pains due to the death of a rehabilitated person, provided that there was between them and a rehabilitated person, beware of which syntagma, a more permanent community of life, in accordance with the law that redecorates the amazing thing again, bonding relations. As far as I know, the community of life is regulated by Family Law, not the Law of Liaison. Next, what does a more permanent community of life mean? Someone will come and say, yes, I lived with this man who needs to be rehabilitated for three months. This one will say – you know, it's not a more permanent community of life. It's a more permanent community if it's five months. This to this extent opens up the possibility of abuse, one-sided interpretation of the law, that it's simply amazing. That's what anyone who's not a lawyer at all sees. This is one short bill. Without any need, it's misspelled. The pax will be completely inadmissible. There's another provision here that speaks of, to what extent neither of you are actually clear as to what authority should be able to resolve the rehabilitation request. Watch out for the formulations. In article 10, you say – a request for rehabilitation is decided by the Supreme Court. Rehabilitation request shall be submitted to the High Court responsible for the area of residence, i.e. the seat of the applicants, or the place where the infringement of the right was committed. Why did you need to alternatively determine the jurisdiction of the court? Simply, then you could say – there is a jurisdictional court around the place of residence or at the place of execution of the violation of the right. Now, this is also a space for abuse. Now it can happen that someone who wants to be rehabilitated or some of his ancestors, let's say they apply for rehabilitation of a court by place of residence. He says: "Do not bear with me, but by the place where you do wrong. Then he goes to the court in the scene of a violation of law. He says: "Not to me, but to the place of refuge." Without any need, you create the possibility of conflicting jurisdiction between senior courts in the Republic of Serbia. After all, will you, by this bill, achieve what? No, I don't. The law and biology, unfortunately, beat you to it. Ninety-nine percent of the people to whom this bill should apply are no longer living. Your attempt to revive the spirit of civil war in the Serbian people and to re-do these overcome conflicts from the Long World War, so that we would not say that the Serbian government is corrupt, that we would not say that the government of Serbia is selling KIM, that the Serbian government is leading a devastating economic and social policy, then you threw as a bone among us a topic of civil war, so we had a broad ideological beauty here, from those who are to rehabilitate Stalin to those who are to rehabilitate Draža Mihailovic, so that the people would have fun, that the people would be distracted, instead of dealing with the fundamental problem of this country. A month ago, we insisted that representatives of the government come to the assembly, in full composition, and ask Borko Stefanovic – how is it possible for Serbia to recognise Kosovo's seal, ID cards, license plates, diplomas... (President: Thirty-two minutes, the time available has been used. I'm done. You're all... declared technical issues and cannot be debated, but an informationbiro resolution should be discussed, who supported whom, who was for Stalin, who was for Draža, who was for Tito.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63394	People's MP, whatever you're talking about must be respected by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure by the time you are at your disposal. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if anyone who has not used his right under Article 96 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. We move to item 2 of the agenda, i.e. to a common principle search on: PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LAW ON UNIFORMANCES AND SUPPORT OF THE POLICE LAW. Notification of the invited to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representative of the Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, to attend Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of Interior and Head of the Interior Ministry's Department of Emergency Affairs, Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary and Jasmina Stanojevic, Head of the Department of Normal Affairs at the Department of the Interior Ministry. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word and with a number of MPs. On the basis of Article 96(4), representatives of the parliamentary groups are obliged to take action until the opening of a common principle search, after which it is not possible. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Konstantin Arsenović, PUPS MP; MP Miletic Mihajlovic, MP of the SPS – JS and MP Petar Jojic, MP of the SRS. If any of the other parliamentary groups would like to have the authority of one of their members to represent her during a joint principled search of these two points, please inform us so that we can inform the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Mr. Ivica Dacic, first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, has informed us of a delay of approximately 15 minutes, so he will have the opportunity to get his word when he joins us in the work. Does the Defence and Security Committee's rapporteur, MP Dusan Bajatovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? If so, please sign in. None of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63395	The President-in-Office, representatives of the Ministry of Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Police, as well as the draft law on amendments and additions to the Emergency Law. We believe that the proposed amendments and additions of these two laws are necessary and appropriate to the present moment, in a legal sense, in a political sense, in the sense that these issues are regulated in a wider environment and in the international community. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, several reasons for passing this law are very important. First, the Police Act was adopted in 2005, after which the Republic of Serbia became an independent state, and in 2006, a new Constitution was adopted, and for these reasons, it is certainly necessary to compare this law to what it is today, in what is a state organisation and in what is a legal order. The need to align the laws with the Constitution and other laws, as well as the new social political reality, really conditions or requires these changes to take place. Another important set of issues that are being resolved through change and addition when it comes to the Police Law, we have an area of international police co-operation, which has, it must be recognised, made significant progress over the past few years. So, today, if we are talking about a successful fight against organised crime, which often has an international situation, it assumes that the integration and very versatile co-operation of police in a closer and further environment. In order to achieve this, it must have a certain legal basis that allows for such co-operation. We are witnessing the very fruitful co-operation of the interior ministry and our now absent deputy prime minister and interior minister, Ivica Dacic, on the international agenda. The co-operation is formalised by the signing of a number of co-operation agreements on different issues. The same agreements were largely ratified here, or confirmed. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police is more detailedly regulating police co-operation on the international plan and with other police in other countries, so that, for example, police work is arranged on the territory of the state, co-operation with foreign police officers, exchange of police officers, the work of foreign and international police services on our territory, carrying out peacekeeping tasks outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So these are all issues that cannot be resolved without a legal basis, which is in line with what is also the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also, above all, international agreements and agreements signed in large numbers and which constitute a direct legal basis for police international co-operation. We today, in a very lively diplomatic political co-operation with other countries, which we have because of our desire to achieve international integration and, above all, our EU integration, have also been very fruitful and, I would say, very successful police co-operation. But if these two things were compared, it seems that we have more successful regional police co-operation than political and diplomatic co-operation today. So our police have become a very important and successful factor in linking our country with the international community and other countries and, above all, in those relations, I would say, that in some way, it is paving the way for further co-operation, even in what will be more successful political and diplomatic co-operation of our countries tomorrow. The third set of issues, which is very important for a successful modern police force through these changes and additions, concerns social issues and the working-law status of police officers. After social dialogue and talks with the unions, there was a signing of a collective contract for police officers and other employees at the interior ministry. Under the conditions of the major economic crisis, the position of police officers is today very difficult. However, it must be acknowledged that it is difficult for everyone today and it is clear that the burden of overcoming the crisis must be borne by all and, of course, the police must bear the burden. However, some of the basic benefits the police must get and it is their turn to get them, because in the course of their duties, the lives of police officers are often at stake and, unfortunately, we are witnesses that such cases were in the near past or the immediate past and last year etc. Therefore, it must go in the direction of making it possible for police to provide better equipment, better quality training, better material position, greater security in legal and working status, etc. We can't expect the success of the M.O.P. and the success of the task of police officers in such a bad situation where all this is not there. And precisely in this sense, these changes and additions, largely in agreement with the police unions, have been made towards improving the working-legal status of police officers. Here I must also mention the conditions for admission to employment in the police service, which is something in a changed form compared to previous conditions so that we have one different approach. It appears to be leaving a tightly framed prototype of the law, which is characteristic of the former closed state systems, and that it is now closer to what is a modern moment in terms of a different approach and consideration of the possibility of all those who meet general and special conditions entering employment, but without some harsh restrictions that often bound hands and MUPs and prevented those who should be admitted. As a parliamentary group, we also appeal to consider the possibility of conditions for reception, in terms of the status of what are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. people who have dual citizenship. An amendment has been proposed here, and MP Djordje Milicevic will speak more about the amendment, but it is precisely such an amendment that allows citizens who have dual citizenship to join the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior and who have residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, through a sublegal act, the minister can arrange closer reception conditions and, of course, there are those jobs where people who have dual citizenship cannot be admitted and that's quite all right. I must also point out here that we have received a fiscal impact assessment here by the Fiscal Council and the Fiscal Council has provided the National Assembly with an assessment of fiscal effects. These fiscal effects of these changes and additions are projected, based on the Ministry of Finance's assessment, that they are around 3.6 billion dinars in 2012, i.e. 300 million or 600 million in this year, for these two months, depending on when they will be applied. This bill has these significant financial, fiscal implications and they are conditioned by changes and additions which, for example, are subject to new solutions in some members, e.g. in the case of temporary inability to work, to earn from 85% to 100%, then, to a police officer who obtained the pension right belongs to a severance payment received for the last six months, and it was five months under the current law, then, a one-time assistance to the family of a police officer who had lost his life in the service, would be 36 average salaries in the MUP, while, under the applicable law, one-time assistance was expressed at the height of a dead police officer's salary in the last 24 months. Therefore, it is obvious to increase this amount of funds needed to meet all those additions and subsequent costs for police functioning. On behalf of the SPS Group - JS I would draw attention to the fact that when the 2012 budget is created, these legal solutions are taken into account, if we adopt them, and I hope that we will, and that these funds are in some way planned and that there is no increased deficit in the budget. In what way? Of course, the Ministry of Finance is going to suggest it, but it's certainly not possible to push the old one. If we want a modern police force, which will successfully work on what is very complex and difficult jobs in the service of the preservation of order, in the service of what is the security of citizens, in the service of crime control and many other functions that the Ministry performs, some basic conditions must be created for decent people who work in police at this time. When it comes to amendments to the Emergency Law, this law was passed at the end of 2009, and its application began in half of 2010. This proposal covers the regulation of standards which better and more precisely regulate certain competences and measures, i.e. legal regulations in this area. The most important thing is to say that this proposal provides for an extension of the powers of the Republic Emergency Staff, which has been established as a national body for coordination, management and management of emergency situations, which is in line with what has been measured and how these matters are dealt with in the broader plan and in line with what is recommended by the UN. This body covers key entities, public services and all other relevant entities in the system of protection and rescue. So, the Republic Emergency Staff, as a national body that handles emergency situations, bears in UN documents the title of "National Platform for the Reduction of the Risk of disaster". In such a way, we are at the level of what are international rules and what is a guide to resolving these issues on a broader scale, and under a patronate, or under what is a UN function. We have in these changes and additions that the Public Agency for Safeguards, which is controlled by the MUP, is given a new role, is granted new authority, which determines the conditions for determining urban protection measures against wartime effects and elemental disasters, as well as the making of first-degree solutions for facilities that will not have shelters, but which have the possibility of paying certain taxis, in the name of making different arrangements, with the help of these taxis to regulate the issue and compensate for the lack of such shelters. It is also important that, when it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of humanitarian response in emergency situations, we are also scheduled to have the authority of the humanitarian centre in training and training of persons, i.e. forces and those who will work to protect and rescue. In this way, the Nis-based humanitarian centre also receives that educational function, or training and equipment function, for what will be their work tomorrow. Finally, I would say that both laws have actually come out of the need to comply with other laws that have been adopted in the meantime, with the needs and legislation that are in the wider environment in the international plan to follow modern trends and that the MUP and these changes and additions, as well as many times so far, shows really one willingness to keep up with time and with the needs of our society and our country in terms of what the assumptions for the normal functioning of this ministry are in relation to the needs of the state, in relation to the needs of Serbian citizens. For both laws, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63396	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right in this part of the session? National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the MUP, Mr General and Mr Assistant MUP, since today this House is considering amendments and additions to the Emergency Law and the Bill on Police. First of all, I would like to draw attention and to explain just a few things that security services went from 1944 to today through different stages of their operation. In 1944, On May 13th, it was founded OZNA, the Department for the Protection of Peoples, and in addition police, public security, and on the other hand, it was a public security service, it was a national militia. Such an organisation and those names were up until 1951, when the formation in that more sophisticated part of our service was conducted by the police, and in particular it should be pointed out that the security service, both state and public security, so the police today by name, suffered a severe blow in 1966, when Josip Broz decided to deal with Serbian police leadership and other structures of the state. After the destruction of Aleksandar Rankovic in 1966, the service suffered numerous changes. The Serbian leadership was demoted, and in key places Josip Broz brought Croatians and Slovenians, that is Branko Nikolic, there is Stane Dolanc, there is Krajger, there are services that are actually run by Croatians and Slovenians. What's important in this development, Tito has performed a police lustration. In what way? He for all who felt that he had not removed the likes of him from the ministry and carried out a memorized lustration. Even 35-year-olds retired, and all of them had to be members of the Communist Party and had to be loyal to Joseph Broz and the Communist Party, and later to the Union of Communists. In 1974, after the adoption of the Constitution, the famous state that has just been decomposed has been decentralised by the police. This decentralization was mirrored, which comes down to the municipal level. Since then, I've had, above all, a weakening of certain services and certain service structures. In order for this service, then in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s, to be laxtrated and used for political purposes until 2000. What should be taken into account when it comes to the bill, I have an objection as to why this bill does not comply with the Code of Criminal Procedure. Gentlemen of the Ministry, you are well aware that a new Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted, that new jurisdiction has been transferred as an investigation into the prosecutor's jurisdiction, that, under the authority of the public prosecutor, investigations by the police are being carried out. It was necessary to deal with this bill and, among other things, with the Code of Criminal Procedure, where police will play a significant role in the investigation and in the pre-criminal procedure. This bill doesn't have a plan. He doesn't predict how to form a judicial police force. The judicial police, in parallel law in Germany, France, England, the United States, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, there are also police who are taking investigative actions, these people have to be professional, have to be graduate lawyers, have to have at least 10 years of work experience and have to be specially organised at the Center for Investigations. This is important and should be done by the Ministry as soon as possible to train and poison police officers so that they can deal with this work and that they can carry out the tasks, because now, according to the new Code of Criminal Procedure, the head of the investigative actions is a public prosecutor. When it comes to security, there is no security in an insecure state that is unable to ensure the safety and security of all its citizens, its property and lives throughout the territory including the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen, our police must be different from the police of Joseph Broz's time. DOS and Broz used the police for political purposes, which is unacceptable. Broz did this in 1966, and during the DOS, 2000 and 2003, after the death of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, there was an uncontrollable lack of freedom and detention of about 12,000 people. We believe that no one should interfere in the work of the police, no matter what party is in power. We believe the police must be depoliticized and ideologically undetermined. Our police must be independent. We believe it is necessary to carry out an independent review of the administrative and material needs of the MUP and its services. The political parties must understand that police are not the instrument of politics. We also believe that police work must not be related to the ideological and political basis of the ruling regime because of possible police abuses by the ruling regime. The police must not be politicized. It must not be turned into a guardian of the regime and parties in power. Police must not, in practice, access selectively in the fight against crime and must not conceal crime in the ranks of the ruling regime. We believe and advocate that police work must be based on high professionalism and depoliticalism. Police must protect the constitution established in the entire territory, including in the southern Serbian province of KIM. The use of the police is a sensitive question. The reckless use of the police for political purposes can lead to inconceivable consequences. Also, we believe that police cannot at any moment become the party's instrument of power, which is in the past and in the present with elements of a certain presence of selectivity and in this case must be taken into account in which cases police will be applied and used. What we resented was that 5,000 police officers were used to guard members of the "gay parade" in Belgrade. It is something that does not resemble morality, customs, and our ministry, for in history our ministry has never dealt with. The police need to act preventively. The repressive involvement of the police must be appropriate to the gravity of the situation and circumstances of endangering constitutional order, protecting life, human health and their property. Police must be professionally trained and interconnected both horizontally and vertically to all parts of police services in our country. The control of the work of all police services must be carried out by the responsible Committee on the Defence and Security of the National Assembly and not to enter the situation from the time of 1966 or October 5, 2000, because certain services had a co-operation and co-ordination with the elements of intelligence services from abroad on 5 October. We advocate that all police intelligence and counterintelligence services should be integrated into a single security system with a fundamental role to ensure the effective functioning of the state authority system in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The role and tasks of the police must be better formally and legally arranged to ensure that the Constitution guarantees guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens from all forms of self-will and threat and that no authorised institution has the right to seek and order the use of police forces for political and party purposes. Also, we believe that the operational independence of the police must be ensured and politicians must understand that police are not the instrument of their policy. It is dangerous to have an illustration of the police by order and prescription of the OSCE and some elements from abroad. They'd like us to disarm the gendarmes, to have all the weapons taken from the gendarmes and removed into the warehouses without leaving the gendarmes to protect the constitutional order, to protect the constitutional and protection of the basic values of the state with the rods or with the arrows. We disagree that someone dictates to us from abroad that we should act and organise a security service. Some at the local level would like to control and manage and frame and manage the police, but what's noticed and what's a fact, they don't finance it, but they want to decentralize it, which we think is absolutely unacceptable compared to the police. The police must be well organized, they must be staffed. At the local level, police can maintain public order and peace and deal with the detection and lighting of crimes and violations. Operational independence, police control and responsibility must remain in the independent and professional police service that must be controlled by the responsible Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, and in co-operation with the competent interior ministry, its leadership and the minister at the head. The material position of the police is today beneath every human dignity. An officer, on average, receives 35,000 salaries in Serbia, and you well know that Kristo, as director of Belgrade's Airport, received 16,000 euros a month. Now, figure out how many hundred salaries it takes to make, and how many cops, and Kristo in one month. So the material position of the police is really unsatisfactory. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that equipment, clothing and shoes, technical equipment... I can't have the police pushing the criminals driving the Porsches, the BMWs, the Mercedes and the Audis, and not counting. The police must be rewarded. You know as well as I do that the police have taken over the role of security of the state border. What is important, as is said here in the proposal, to protect the borders, I must say that we have no established borders with either Bulgaria or Macedonia or Albania, nor with Montenegro, nor with BiH, nor with Croatia, or even with Hungary. The question is, how are these people going to secure the border? Police officers are asked to ensure public order and peace, to ensure the safety and security of citizens and their property, to deal with the detection and lighting of criminal acts, to fight terrorist organizations... So, the only service in which Serbian citizens need to trust and see that they depend on the safety of Serbian citizens. We don't have an army. We don't have an army anymore, what we have is what some barracks keep, but we have a regular army, actually, we don't. Some foreign elements, and above all foreign intelligence services, and their agencies, would like to disarm, mostly well-armed, if it can be said at this point, the police. Some of the OSCE, as well as the United States, Germany, Italy, France, would like in Serbia, police, to introduce their police culture. It is a cowboy culture that can never be applied to Serbia from an ordinary or moral aspect. We Americans, Germans, English, French, Dutch don't need to be culturally educated by our police. Our police are worthy and our police have to pay more attention and respect, and look, and security of fundamental rights, and they have a duty to citizens and the state. What is noticeable and what is well known, foreign advisers have been installed in all Serbia's security structures. What will foreign advisers do in Serbia's intelligence services? Retired generals of England, France? Why do we need these advisors in the cabinets of our ministries? We don't need them. We have such personnel that in any case they can humanely run the service, organize it, carry out the duties and tasks that the state has just set up for them. I reiterate that the Serbian government must stop ignoring the real needs of state security and the actual material and technical needs of the police. The police reform, as these Europeans have called it, is, in our opinion, based on momentum. So I wonder -- is the Serbian Government a place to exchange compliments between foreign intelligence services or for a really strong and well-organised security of the entire territory of the state border, and we practically, as I said, have no established borders? When it comes to borders, you know very well that there is a land and water border and an airspace of borders. No one talks in the airspace with their neighbors. And we don't know, nobody knows how to tag and say where that air border is, and here we say-- we want the border, and we don't have to. I have to get back to the material position of the police again. I personally think, gentlemen of the MUP, who are engaged in these organizational affairs and police tasks, that you should abolish the physical security of all those other than the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63398	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63399	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63400	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63401	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I am quite tired of preparing all this, and I have remained to talk about this law out of respect for Minister Ivica Dacic, and with the announcement that today we will work with this dynamic and unusually consider two laws together, one before that, both very important. I'm not saying no, but I'm sorry that Mr. Ivica Dacic is not here to discuss this law and to ask ourselves, is this the best way to show the police how much we care about her? I guess the man has some serious reasons why the intended presence here had to replace something else, but I'm sorry, because, as I stayed to contribute to the seriousness of the conversation on this subject, I think he really had a place here, even though he didn't decide, but I think we could do a lot more. Why am I saying this? For me, if someone asked me what the impression of the last six months was, it would be a finding and an announcement of a legal solution that children by the age of 11 wouldn't be able to go out alone on the street. We wonder what kind of country we live in, if we can't let our children go to the street alone, us who are with KIM, and me who followed the children to school, waited for me, me, Grandpa or Grandma and everyone who lived there, it was common because it was an insecure area, because the eccessses were a regular phenomenon and were not motivated by the age of children but by nationality. It was like that. Unfortunately, today is not much different, with not only children being followed, but also adults going to the cemetery and visiting etc. But that in the state of Serbia and in this area we are trying to solve things by affecting the consequences, instead of affecting the causes, I don't think that's good. One young mother who has two children, with whom I accidentally opened that topic, told me- that you're surprised, I have to follow my children when they're playing outside, because it's part of the city of Belgrade where I live full of stray dogs. We know that this congregation is not much less threatened than such an honor. Pedophiles are freed to defend themselves from freedom, and they are one apparent attack. They used to be voyeurs or someone who took pictures at the end of the day. Now these are the entire actions of networks where such people who are at risk of children are organized by international action are trying to punish and prevent such phenomena. How many homeless people will jump outside Belgrade's centre, not just to take off someone's neck a gold chain or hijack a purse. We're in such a situation that literally, as a friend of mine says, who I really appreciate, and who is exporting, the children will be taken from their mouths by a sandwich and a piece of bread. All these cases and all these problems, which are why we say that children, or that someone suggests, can't go out on the street without parents, are actually due to what's called a state that with its repressive apparatus, which is primarily police, should provide peace, is not able to do so. This law on police would have to move at least a little bit of the police's ability to do their job and get her reputation back in the people, which is completely unwarranted because of those who are misusing positions in some positions questioned. Can we restore the reputation of the police by prescribing higher rights of protection, even for those who are not directly on the street and who, unfortunately, show, are clay pigeons rather than sitting in tent halls, offices or so? No, we won't. When you give treatment to a special protection to someone who is threatened, just like any other employee in any ministry, you just create a public eye towards him. You're just opening up new demands for someone else to get an underprivileged job internship, for someone else to get a 100% fee during some absence, and for the work of that and that ministry to be under a public eye where the people, a good, wise, honest man, will not see a log in his eye, and with me see a straw. So the way to fix the position of the police, which is clearly bad, when I tell the police, I mean the largest number of people, is to give them rights, but not all equally suppressed in the structure of the people at risk, in the structure of those most exposed, is not a good solution. The intentions are undeniable, even if it is a pre-election year, although every minister wants to sign up as someone who has given the biggest rights to the branch he represents, the Ministry of which is headed, I don't think this is a good way, because everything that goes into uncontrolled public procurements that are not within the Public Procurement Act, although they are specific to the Ministry, so I'm also talking about the military as specific, because not everything in the system of official secrecy and everything has to be behind the curtains, it could improve the position of police officers, and that in no way creates the certainty of the rest of the public that apparently hard to live. So, you don't have to solve problems by affecting the consequences, but the few funds that should be allocated to the MUP must be properly deployed. Why are you people used to it, you, us, all of you? Today, a journalist asks me and says, "Some MP from a group of MPs has a salary of 190,000?" I say - how can you ask such a question? All MPs have a starting salary of 75 grand. I don't get paid, but I can talk about it. After a year of work, 0.4% is the right each employee has in any private, state or any other company. So if someone has 30 or 40 years of work experience, then of course they have that supplement. That's legal. It's not just for the MPs. Are you wondering if someone's the chairman of the board, so he's got a bigger salary? I'm not, I'm not talking about myself. I speak very responsibly. Why did you get used to the people only hearing the total number without getting into the structure of someone's income, the responsibility and the obligation to carry the job? Is that supposed to be, what the kids would say, spit everyone out and not trust anyone anymore? It's less harmful somewhere, somewhere more, but with the police, it's terribly harmful. Why did the inscription come out these days that the most corrupt within the framework of very high corruption in Serbia, police officers? Is marketing, positive or negative, really supposed to beat reality? I don't want to believe that the police are the most corrupt and I don't want to believe that individuals who muddle the reputation and honor and doctors and cops and lawyers who can sell the dispute and deal with the other side. I don't want to explain to a cop and a doctor. Everyone knows I don't want to believe that all people are like that. The basic lie you say when you say it - all cops are corrupt and all doctors. We can never help society heal if we take that approach. But you can't say that an underprivileged internship and police officer's status deserves just as much as someone who's been drugged to drive a car because it's a new fashion, so he cut down, or one who, not wanting to reduce speed to a stop sign, hurt a cop, isn't just as threatened as a police officer. I work at Telecom, and I can't ask that I have a height supplement as a installer. That would be pointless. So, who is physically exposed to greater dangers, a professional illness whose life is at stake, it is normal for him to have adequate compensation, i.e. benefits in terms of employment, salary, income, etc. I really don't want to believe that the union people asked you to. I believe they've demanded that the money that's intended for the MUP not be spent behind the curtain by saying that you're looking for the kind of shirt fabric you know is made by only one official. I took part in public procurement when they taught us how to do it in 2002-2003. Do you know what the management officers said at the time – you can ask that the qualification to perform the work be that some works were performed on Mars as well. It's your right. Someone thought in 2003 that you could set such a condition, i.e. to abuse the Public Procurement Act where, instead of opening up for competition, you draw suppliers in fact, or suppliers. Specifics of material and technical characteristics, of what shoes are, it's really scary to talk about whether they're cold or if they have shoes that fall apart in the first rain, but that's our reality. It's got to be arranged by the rules, where no one can question and Pera set up Mickey's job, because she's gonna give him money for not knowing what. Now someone's gonna convince me it's either the minister or his first line. Well, there's no time minister, he's mostly in the business of holding his own party. As I have warned one of the ministers here at the time, the biggest problem is every ministry that has a second line of officials and is ready to put the minister in office, and the assistants, and the police officers, and the Serbian citizens. Mr. Maric won't do it. He has assured us that he is responsible and that everything he does is very safe, what we know. Well done, Mr. Maric, but there is no system that should function on an individual's conscience. That's all Mr. Panic can do when he comes back from America to say -- they're good people, let them do the job again, just change the system institutions and reform the organization, need a good man. Yes, a good man and as safe as you. He needs every ministry. But the state isn't working on conscience. It's working on rules. Those rules don't exist, and that's what I said. 1. Why did the Ministry of the Interior accept being criticised and guilty of anything wrong in the state? You receive that you organize anti-urban protection, that others print your passports, your ID cards, and that they earn extra profits, and that in fact they show a minus, the first time you've seen a loss in the National Bank of Serbia since the most famous governor ran that bank. What do you get? It doesn't even add up for you. You don't even have the basic costs to make up for it. Then you send the men. You know what the young people say - the fishermen are waiting for us, right behind the gram and catch the speed. You will say no, we announce speed control. Other ministries have their own sources of income, and your ministry earns them in an unworthy way, which probably insults their own honor. I'm talking about the part of the traffic police within the Ministry. Right? No one's proud to act like a stalker. The way that the pressure on the IDP is done by the police union, so that it can pass one law that doesn't have enough resources in this budget, in which the finance minister can change your appraisal, or what's meant for your jobs, can and can't give you, you don't have your part of the budget, that's the problem. There are problems with you. When you tell me the average salary, I get chilly. That's exactly when someone eats only cabbage, and the other eats only meat and on average everyone eats sarma, when someone's cabinets are extra, and you go inside and you see a police station where you don't even have a decent toilet. I took an official car on a congregation road, most warmly welcomed by people in southern Serbia. They were blushing when they didn't even have a decent toilet – here we go, we'll rebuild. It has to be at least about the same equipment and conditions for these people to work. But just as we advocate that the same conditions, warm offices and cabinets have everyone, you can't say that a police officer, a pregnant woman in the MUP, should have more compensation during maternity leave than a worker in another ministry. I'm not talking about police officers who have special exposure to injuries, professional illnesses, injury, that's where we advocate greater rights. But if we're in favour of not being able to seek in rehab double duty and recognition for the one who's rehabilitated, because the one who's illegally detained, who's not charged, has no double fee at all, so that rule has to be general. You know, I'm told by colleagues -- well, wait, it's not popular to say that we pregnant women are not going to have special protection there. We are not saying what is popular, we are saying what is possible in Serbia and what needs to restore dignity to every official of the state administration and to every citizen of Serbia and to be a rule of conduct for all. In that sense, we have amendedly responded to all similar cases where and the right, when, God forbid, a police officer happens, and it's very common, loses his life, a member of his family is the hardest or children have to find a job. There's no competition, there's no age limit, it's the most necessary thing to do and that's where I respect your concern. It must never be forgotten, for there is nothing more valuable than life, and they put it not only on the altar of the homeland, but to feed or earn. But in giving rights and recognising exposure to dangers, don't overdo it to your associates, the people who depend on you, the bear service. I don't want them to get that name of the fisherman, let alone any uglier. Why did you allow this detention for preventive reasons? I know a lot of people remember that -- a visit from a high statesman, and then those who are prone to pocketing, crime, or embarrassing us, sometimes they've been talking to me, a colleague from Vojvodina, closing up on Palic in some hotel and keeping them there while he's going through a serious visit. However, we have led all the rights and opportunities to regulate order to this extent, so that it can then be misused as a preventive measure where there are certain boundaries and fences. It can really be misused. It is a measure and good and, as the Croats would say, effective, but you've done great in stadiums and football games, it's preventive to know who can't get into such territory. I have no doubt of your good intentions, nor is it disputed that the minister wants to be remembered as someone who has made it possible for the police, but, Minister, you don't have much time, you're busy, you want to do everything, you're young and you're getting a lot. As much as it spills out when officials, not high officials, write down technical characteristics for public procurement, then all of my, your and all of us's wishes to fix something in the ministry. When a picture is drawn of him who delivers the goods, you may not even know who took the money, and he will say, ‘He is carrying the minister, he is the first.’ Public procurement control, where? By the portal, past the public, past the competition, it remains only what is truly a state secret, indeed what for security reasons should be in a corner and invisible, to be preserved as a state. There are spares for shoes and for overtime and for shift work and for working during the holidays and for better protection of pregnant women and for restoring respect for this job. It's not a story. In February, the SNS gave this home a proposal to amend and supplement the law. It doesn't matter what you don't want to talk about. A whole new law that is now prescribed, let them rewrite it whole, but let it be applied and not lie to those who say that they are making it impossible to save. Everyone who knows how to add two and two knows it's a billion euros on an annual basis. No, that's not all in the Home Office. You're completely out of supply in terms of the Public Procurement Act. I can only think of the reserves in that section called the army. I'll just say one more remark. I don't doubt the minister is responsible, but someone always prepares his papers, mostly. Sometimes you look more carefully and sometimes you don't. Those who burn, say - and no longer sign "War and Peace" that Leo Tolstoy wrote until I read it all. Please, the government can't ask about sending police officers on international missions. It's the job of this home, and on the government's proposal. There's no need for responsibility to be transferred here, and the level to a lower level. I respect the desire to improve the position of the police, but I don't think this creates conditions because there's no money for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63402	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, applied for a word in writing by the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS, the SRS, the ZES and the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. We move to the part of the session when it comes to MPs, and by order and application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Djordje Milicevic, and after that, MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63403	Mrs. Comic, the honourable ministers, the respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, are ahead of us two extremely important legislative proposals, and this is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Police and to amend and supplement the Emergency Law. In my presentation, I'll put an accent on a few sentences first and foremost on the amendment and addition of the Police Act. So, taking into account, above all, what is stated in the reasoning of this legislative proposal as a reason for adoption, and I mean above all the conditions for police work, police officer status, as well as the security situation in Serbia, i.e. considering the essential reason why these proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act, improving the position of police, I would like to repeat once again what is the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliament Club will clearly and precisely say that the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support both legislative proposals in the voting day. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act, as mentioned among other things, specify the amount of allowances, rights and obligations of police officers, regulate the concept of moving or sending to another service, compensation for the family of the injured police officer, change the organisation of the MUP and the exercise of police powers. For the first time, the specificities of the special units of the MUP are respected, more detailed international co-operation by the MUP, changes are introduced in the arrangement of the equal status of police officers and other employees in the MUP, while more concrete conditions for admission to labour will be specified by the sublaw. The majority of the proposed changes and additions to the Police Act are currently related to the determination of salaries, compensations, additions and other receipts, in accordance with the Special collective contract for police officers and that is something that, in our opinion, is fully justified and fully acceptable. Our view is that the MUP is now one of the most organized parts of the state. The results of the MIP work are visible and recognizable, I would say are visible and recognizable results of the MIP's work when it comes to one determined, successful fight against crime and corruption. A recognizable identity of the MUP to recognise public order and peace in Serbia. What, unfortunately, is true, is that the material position of members of the MUP at this point is not at an envious level, because the participation of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget has been gradually reduced, it seems to me, somewhere since 2002. For example, for example, the participation of members of the MUP in funds that are allocated to their needs in 2000 was 56%, and today, I think, more than 80%. We understand that saving at the level of the state at a time when the whole of Serbia feels the negative effects of the economic crisis should be a priority, but there are things that should not be saved and not saved. Being a cop is an extremely risky profession. That's what my predecessors were talking about. News of the dead, wounded officers on duty, unfortunately, is becoming subject number one more and more often. Some of the research I've encountered over the past few days, say that about 25% of the total number of crimes are just attacks on police officers. I don't know how credible they are. Many researches at this time show that police are now in line with institutions in which citizens have the highest confidence and we believe that this is extremely important. Therefore, citizens' trust in police work is evident, but citizens' expectations are high when it comes to police. Security everywhere in the country, on the street, in stadiums, in sports halls, in the park is the task of the state. I'd say our police in one successful, one professional way at this point corresponds to that task. What is essential is that the material position and technical equipment are the conditions for the police to respond to their basic role, which is the security of citizens, public order and peace. A large number of injured officers are probably due to poor police equipment. What I'm trying to say is that every attack on a member of the MUP is, in fact, an attack on the state. What is extremely important and what I want to do specifically is not to be left with a quick and strict reaction from the judicial authorities, because if that doesn't happen, then one very bad message is sent to the citizens. If in this context we do not protect the public order and peacekeepers, then the order in Serbia will, unfortunately, be at risk, and this must not be of interest to any of us. Once again at the very end, the SPS-JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support both proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63404	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Dusan Maric has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63405	Ladies and gentlemen, we can adopt this and dozens of other police laws, however, it will not ensure any progress in the fight against crime until certain conditions are met, and meeting most of these conditions has nothing to do with the law, has to do with changing the code of conduct in the police and changing the relationship society has to do with the police. It's a private condition to break off, to cut off contacts between police and criminals. This is very important especially in smaller environments, in the interior, where you know who is who and where this association has special weight. As long as registered and convicted criminals, especially drug dealers, are free to go to the police station for no reason to say goodbye to the cops, as long as the cops in the cafes drink the drinks that the criminals send to them for a hundred, as long as the cops in the cafes drink liquor at one table, and the waiters deal drugs at the bar, as long as it happens, and I'm saying this on the basis of examples that I know, as long as it happens that the cops are informing criminals about criminal charges against them, the content of these criminal charges, and as long as they take statements, they advise them to give a statement that will make their position easier, we'll have increasing crime on one side, and on the other side we'll have increasingly weaker police. The second condition is that judges and prosecutors stop acting, as our people say as suffocating grandmothers and as humanitarian workers who allegedly protect criminals from the police. What do police officers who have been working on a case for months, solve the case, often risk their lives, objectively risk their peaceful life and their family's safety, file a report, and then the prosecutor, for volunteer reasons, deems it a minor crime or, worse still, the judge gives some fine. What motive do these cops have after doing their job and fighting crime? On the one hand, they risk the safety of their family, on the other hand being humiliated and publicly ridiculed. The third condition is to extend the powers of the police. The laws we have now are mostly in the service of criminals, less in the service of police officers. It used to be a priority for cops to find out who did the crime and solve the case. Talk to any police officer, any police inspector, and every one of them will tell you that in solving a particular case, when working on a particular case, he is thinking first of all not to make any mistake that, God forbid, he does not harm a criminal's human rights, because he can earn a suspension, and in some cases he may be out of a job. Third, to change the relationship of society to the police. We even have various organizations dealing with the protection of human rights, which are exposed as protectors of the rights of criminals, and much less protectors of the rights of police and victims of criminals. I'll mention that case a few months ago, I think it was a multiple returner, a professional thief, a thief, who stole something in Vrsac, and the police caught him. For a month, Serbia trembled over the case. Every day, newspapers wrote about it. That was breaking news on all the news shows. Imagine, the case happened two years ago. Someone taped it, and it's got a video of a cop hitting a criminal. It was such a pressure that the minister was literally forced to do so, I suppose for those reasons, to suspend the police, to call a criminal and to apologize to him publicly for allegedly violating his human rights. That was the essence of the problem. What happened at the end? In the end, a month later, a man was caught stealing again, and within a month, he was caught twice in theft. What happened? Just under the pressure of these so-called. Protectors of human rights humiliated minister, humiliated police, humiliated state, humiliated every normal citizen of this country, who is disgusted by crime. The next condition is to improve the material position and technical equipment of the police. Cops, as far as I know, have an average salary of 35,000. How can a cop with a salary of 35,000 deal with a criminal, a drug dealer who has a monthly salary of 35,000 euros? It's simply impossible, in such a relationship, power is not realistic to expect a police officer not to be corrupt. On one side he does a risky job, on the other side of the house he brings much less money than he needs to feed his family, the temptations are great, and then what happens to us happens to us. The authorities argue that there is insufficient money to increase police wages and technical equipment. I think there's enough money but they're not properly deployed and I'm going to list several possible sources of resources, several examples where money is spent on socially unwarranted, so to speak of projects, instead of being spent on an increase in the salary of the police, buying equipment to the police. I remind you that there are more than a hundred different regulatory bodies, councils, commissions, offices, agencies, I don't know what they're called, with more than 800 employees and most of them, most of these bodies, regulatory bodies, are already doing jobs already done by a competent ministry. So it's a double job. Few laws are passed in this assembly without these laws establishing a new regulatory body, a new agency, and most of them predict the employment of at least a dozen employees. It'd be better if that money was used to buy equipment for the police. Secondly, I remind you that in the last three years, the Serbian government has donated tens of millions of euros to foreign companies. I will not name names, so there are several foreign companies, especially companies that have been developing their business in Serbia through Mladjan Dinkic, who have received between 5,000 and 10,000 euros per worker for employment. You know, a foreign company comes in, we give her free land, we give them free facilities, all for party personal promotions, then we release them from various taxes, and we release them from utility taxis, and we give them all the connections they need, and eventually we pay them five to 10,000 euros for a job, and then they can collect profits and make money from Serbia. Next, I also remind you, I was saying that a dozen days ago to a notor fact, and that name is related to the material position of the police and to the material position of all civil servants. It's not just the police who are at risk of low wages. Over the last 11 years, more than a billion euros have been spent on salaries and contributions from civil servants, employed after 2000. It's official data. On October 5, 2000, around 8,000 employees worked in the government and ministries. So I'm quoting government data. Now there are 28,000 who are in constant labor and 4,000 who are under contract. It's a billion-euro sum. What do you think part of that asset will be used to improve the material position of the police? What Jojic said was that police officers have, not to go after the South, the Stojadin, not to chase criminals who drive the Porsche and the BMW. I also point to the fact that, according to official data, this country has been in recent years, in the last year and a half from criminals who are involved in so-called crime. organised crime seized property, whose value is estimated to be 400m euros. Who's the most responsible for taking that property away? The most responsible is the police. It seems to me, in a sense, the most natural thing to do is to focus at least one good part of those funds on the equipment of the police. Justifiable that this moment is being given for humanitarian purposes, but if we want to have a successful fight against crime, and apparently that crime is getting bigger, then we really need to have technically trained police. I'd like to point to a practice that puts officers in a second-class position, I've spoken to several police officers who've had these problems. What's this about? It's just that a police officer who commits a traffic violation responds under the Traffic Safety Act as well as any other citizen. However, they argue that they bear both some and some internal sanctions, to launch disciplinary proceedings against them, for mainly a minor violation of official duty, i.e. Work disciplines. To make it easier and harder to hurt work discipline. And now those cops are literally responding on two basiss. They're in line with the Traffic Safety Act and they're in accordance with some kind of internal regulations. That explains why cops do community-responsible work. Now if we apply that to this congregation, then all MPs for offense or crime would have to match at least two or three arches, two or three basics. One cop can't be expected to be more moral, more socially responsible than an MP in the National Assembly. As far as this emergency law is concerned, the first thing that fell into my eyes is that the government is calling for documents and standards adopted by the UN, this is such a pleasant surprise and unusual. It is unusual because the government has introduced the practice of constantly calling for some regulations, directives, instructions coming from Brussels from the EU. The other thing that's good in this law is, which is legal, so to speak, that agreement that we signed with the Russians on the establishment of a joint Nish centre for joint action in the event of an emergency. What fell into my eyes as the negative and worst thing in this law and I'm going to talk about it, and I think it points to a superficial relationship, meaning according to this law and to this problem, is the fact that you in the emergency law don't mention me saying the most extraordinary possible situation, which is the state of war and the state of threat of the country due to terrorist attacks. The truth in Article 1 when it comes to the matter governed by this law, it is said of the occasion, of terrorism, war and other disasters, and then in the next 25 members of the law, you have no war or terrorism. Why? Because it's all under the idea of an elemental accident. The war is still much more than an elemental accident. I think it's one mistake, and I think that mistake is the result of bad intentions. I don't know what this is about, whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia is afraid to use these terms, war conditions, terrorist attacks, etc. or a directive has arrived from Brussels to do so for some reason. No one in their right mind wants a war. So no one is normal, but today's world war is reality. Since World War II, more than 300 major wars have been fought. At this point in the world, you have more than ten amongst the state's war conflicts. As far as Serbia and the Balkans are concerned, war is a regular state, a little bit, so we have it. I remind you that this country has only been for the last 30 years, I think I've counted, and I'm going to mention 12 times faced with an emergency situation due to the war. The first case was in 1981, an armed rebel in Cyprus in Kosovo and Metohija. It's an emergency in the country. In 1989, an emergency situation over a new Shiptara rebellion. In 1981 due to the war in Slovenia, and the same year in the autumn emergency situation due to the war in Croatia. Well, then we're in 1992... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63406	People's MP, I ask you on the subject of the agenda and without demeaning the content of the laws by comparison, an emergency which is clearly defined in this law, and wars from history or anywhere on the planet right now. So I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63407	Mrs. Komic, member of the 1st law, says: "This law regulates the operation, declaration and management of emergency situations, the system of protection and rescue of people, material and cultural goods and the environment from natural disasters, technical and technological accidents, accidents and disasters, the result of terrorism, war and other major accidents." As you can see, this emergency law also covers emergency situations that are the consequence of war events. I'm talking about the fact that it doesn't make sense that only one member of the law... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63408	People's MP, I warned you that you were too far away from the agenda topic for a reason, because I listen to you very carefully, and I know what it says in the law, so I now warn you that the remaining time of your discussion is in connection with the agenda so that you don't go too far as to explain it, because you and I both know that what you're saying was a reason and my obligation to intervene and to warn that we're talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63409	Mrs. Komic, I'm going to ask for a stenogram of my discussion, and all and one single sentence is on the agenda, on the subject of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63410	People's MP, I'm warning you for the second time. So it is my duty to remind every ambassador. I listen very carefully to every MP. It is your duty to respect the chairman who warns you to speak on the agenda. With the insight into the stenogram you will see at which point I reminded you that you have strayed from the topic of the agenda. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63411	Thank you. I was merely trying to point out by my discussion the superficial approach that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had when writing this law, the superficial approach to emergency situations caused by war facts, but in any case, thank you for your confidence, with one fact, I did not stray from the topic of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63412	16 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Please respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63413	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MUP, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the beginning of our presentation, when we talk about amendments to the Emergency Law, I want first of all to thank the members of the MUP and this sector for emergency situations on a truly sacrificed and noble engagement during the earthquakes in the Kingdom, during the great forest fires that we had this summer, to praise professionalism and to say that in practice there was the need for a service like this to exist, to thank you for all those hours of work on the rescue of people and material goods in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to say that this supplementation of this law that we have today, which concerns some of the things that have been observed through practice, should be complemented by some conventions recommended by the UN, is an indication that the fact that the fact that the very importantness of the Republic of Serbia has been seen in practice. When it comes to police, the Police Law will certainly contribute to the continued professional instrumentalisation of police not as a political structure in this country but as a body, an institution that enjoys not without reason the greatest confidence of Serbian citizens. With the military and the Serbian Orthodox Church, police are increasingly trusting in all public opinion surveys. That's not an accident. Unfortunately, in the past, we have had several difficult acts on members of the MUP who have ended and lost their lives as members of the MUP. Unfortunately, the tone speaks of the situation in the country. That's what happened before. It's just that there's still no awareness that people wearing a police uniform have on their chests the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia and that shooting a cop everywhere in the world is a shooting in the state and that the state must always find ways to protect its officers. At the end of my presentation, I want you, Mr. Dacic, to express your deep respect for the families of the police who have suffered by doing their duty, defending the Constitution and keeping the law of this country, to express great gratitude to all sectors and to all the structures of the MUP, how the management of the criminal police for the truly serious results they have made in the fight against organised crime, these officers here who care about our security in the assembly that we face every day, and who also have difficulty in working, these officers in uniforms. I am pleased to see new uniforms on the police force, especially those units of the CIA and against the terrorist unit that makes the elite of our police and which are also important to the increased respect that our police are enjoying right now in the world. Once again, all congratulations to the members of the MUP. I'll vote for these laws. I think these are good laws, to improve police work, to make police work more efficient, to make it possible... (Greto Peric, from the scene: Is today the day of the police? ) Maybe it's not Police Day, every day it's Police Day, because who would spend one day with officers on duty in the police service of any police station in Serbia would see how difficult this job is and see that every day in Serbia, it's Police Day for these people. They have no New Year, no Christmas, no Easter, no glory, these people work 24 hours, just like ambulances and firefighters and deserve only the respect and admiration of all MPs in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63414	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, in a united debate, we are discussing the proposal of two laws, the Police Act and the Emergency Act. The Police Law was reasoned and contentally spoken by counterpart Petar Jojic as an authorised representative of the SRS. The same was done by colleague Dusan Maric, so in my discussion, I will refer to this second law, the Emergency Act. The Emergency Law should in itself represent one very important document, and given your approach to all this, I have the impression that this will be just another one in a series of laws that represent a dead letter on paper. Of course, I'll answer right now and for what. We had the National Strategy for Emergency Protection and Rescue a month ago on the agenda of this Parliament, and this national strategy is a compatible document to this emergency law. It is interesting that as a reason for adopting the said strategy, it lists the existence of an emergency law that is said to be a step towards systematic regulation of the security of citizens. On the other hand, by analysing the effects of this law, or its application, you yourself have come to the conclusion that this law is not right and that is why you are changing it. Today we are changing this law, and based on this law, we have adopted the National Strategy that I mentioned. So, we're going round and round and we can draw a clear conclusion from this, that the strategy we took a month ago is not good and that it needs to be changed because we're changing the law on the basis of which this strategy came about. This is the best proof that you do not know what you are doing and what laws you are making, that you are making it that the law has as much in it as possible, that the European agenda is satisfied and that the faster you get into the EU, but the way things are going, you will wait a long time. Now, if a little closer to looking at the law itself, it can be concluded that he is primarily brought about by two things. The first thing to pass this law is – setting up a monopoly by introducing a licence and passing a professional examination for persons involved in a risk assessment, because if the law is looked at again, we will see that this member of the law that talks about this is also the most common member of this law. So that's the first thing this law is about. The other thing why this law is passed is to delete the former Article 50 from the old law, which required the Serbian state to participate in assisting local self-government units in removing major damage caused by elemental disasters and other accidents. So, you're erasing that law, and you're practically leaving local self-government at large, and the state of Serbia washes its hands, they're not interested in anything. How local self-government will eliminate the consequences of major natural disasters and accidents, it is clear that they are not able to do so. If a little deeper insight into the essence of this law and of this old and this new one, there can be another conclusion that the condition and third thing, which appears here, and perhaps the only essential newspaper is the introduction of a new universal system, or 112 for emergency calls, instead of the previously well-known numbers 92, 93 and 94. I remind you, it was also in that old law, but we all know that even though it was brought in in 2009, that these things didn't come back to life. So you failed to enter these three new numbers, to execute that application, and you expect some of the full application of this law, and I'm convinced there's nothing. As a reason for the urgent procedure in the adoption of this law, you state the adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, as well as for the safety of the country, which could occur by not passing this law. I am convinced and argue that the adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, even for the safety of the country, are, above all, relevant in the fact that you rule Serbia, so that these adverse consequences will not be eliminated, whether this law has been passed by urgent or regular procedure. It is necessary for this incompetent government to move, to make its place better and more capable, and the consequences of the health and safety of people will be removed by themselves, in part, of course. These things that this law says are not for play, it's fate and the people and the state, and you, like, and every other law, approach very superficially, irresponsiblely, and what's worst, even though something is good in the law, I won't deny it, there are such things, it's not applied. So the law doesn't mention KIM anywhere, even though we all know it's an emergency there for 12 years, and the law, of course, is the emergency law. So it's an emergency, but this law doesn't treat it. Unfortunately, we in Serbia today have many other emergency situations, and one of these situations that should be pictured by every citizen in Serbia is the results of the latest lists. Here is the most extraordinary situation, where the entire state of society, of course not just the Ministry of Police, but the whole society, the entire government and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and all structures should deal with it. So it's the biggest emergency situation, but there's nothing in this law about it. We know that children are not born and that few young people he has can't get a job and really, from that point of view, Serbia is really waiting for tough days. But there are many more emergency situations. Here's one of these emergency situations is the lack of rainfall, and this summer and this period, and due to the lack of rainfall, the waterway of the Danube is so low that practical navigation of the Danube is absolutely at stake. This in the most direct way reflects the reduction of exports of our products, especially cereals, but I must also note that on the Bulgarian-Romanian side of the Danube, the situation is also similar, perhaps even worse when it comes to the Danube navigation road, but these two countries are EU members, and you are making this law according to the EU's recommendation and all in order, I quote from the law, alleged assistance and solidarity with the EU. Where is EU solidarity now to help and mitigate the consequences of Serbia's budget? There is no EU anywhere, it takes care of its interests, the interests of some other countries, and they care about the interests of the Serbian state. They, come on, when I mentioned this waterway to the Danube, they can't wait to rain and normalize the situation as far as the Danube waters are concerned, they can't wait for more of our grains, they can't wait for grain from Ukraine right now, and the question is what will happen to our grains, or our cereals. It is known that cereals and cereals are one of the products that is continuously exported and one of Serbia's strategic export products. We have seen in part the solidarity of the EU that you are calling here in law, and I remind you that the EU is not our strategic partner. There are not many of our friends in the EU, even on the contrary, I would say they are almost gone. Our strategic friends are on the other side. First of all, we know it's Russia. That's why I'm asking you - why is he late for the implementation of the Nish Emergency Centre? Given the fact that I come from Nis, I know the answer, but because of the citizens of Serbia, the reason for this is primarily in the fact that the Russian Federation is carrying the pillar of this centre, and this centre should operate in several countries of the region, not only in Serbia, and it seems that someone in Serbia has feared that our NATO friends will get competition and therefore is going slowly with the implementation of this centre. On this occasion, I'd like to partially exempt part of the local government in Nis. There's a lot of jobs that depend on them. They seem to me, regardless of their incompetence in some other situations, yet they're trying part of it not to at least stop at this point, but I think it's the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of the Army. So, you only care about the EU, and when the wind blows to one side, then all the trees grow upside down. So change the direction of the wind, correct Serbia, turn to the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63416	It was used 11 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Goran Mihajlovic is not here right now. The Messenger of the people, Suleiman Spaho, has a word, and after him the Messenger of the people, Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this bill on amendments and additions to emergency situations should allegedly improve this law that was passed on December 29, 2000, but has never been applied in fact. This law, which was passed on December 29th in the Serbian Parliament. The SRS MPs, with their constructive work and discussions, proposed to the government that the law be withdrawn or accepted by the amendments to the SRS, so that the law would be good and acceptable in the given situation. You didn't accept it, but now after two years you've put the agenda and this procedure to amend and supplement this law. After the law was passed in 2009, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent minister were obliged to pass closer regulations to implement this law within six months of the entry into force of the law, and neither the government nor the minister did, although it was almost a year and more until the deadline. As far as I know, so many of the necessary regulations speak of 57 regulations, none of which has been passed, and this is due to the good work of the government. With this, all units of local self-government, municipalities and cities have been effectively and disabled to comply with the provisions of this law. Normally, some municipalities in Serbia are unhappy with this law. Your rule welcomed troubled Serbia and faced many emergency situations, which is essential disasters, as well as political, and the biggest political elemental disaster is Kosovo. And when will Kosovo come to the agenda in this House? I come, as you know, Mr. Minister, from Loznica, who, in four years' time, is in a position to experience a terrible disaster twice. Believe me, whenever I mention Viskoza, my citizens and I are a little upset about what might have happened to us after that big fire that happened there. Normally, it's a fire that took place in one of the Viskoza-C fiber factories and thanks to the ability of the passwordd firefighters, who after two days localized the fire, and thanked them, but as I read and as you said, your ministry, we lack nearly 4,000 firefighters, but apparently there's no money in the budget, but therefore, Mr. Minister, you have money, I think, the government has money, that NGOs, which in all ways, are trying to destroy this Serbia. What's interesting is that this fire has affected the tanks that contained CS2 gas, which in contact with fire, leads to a terrible explosion. It worked, believe me, it worked, and you know it well, 50 tons of this gas that could destroy the whole city with its environment. This could most likely not be a law to help the citizens of Loznica. After such an unpleasant event, local self-government and all political parties, and I can especially praise the SRS, the media has influenced the government to transfer, transfer or sell this gas to some of the factories that use it. And until the gas was relocated, the citizens of Loznica were panicking. And the period, believe me, and you know for yourself, was long until that gas went to someone else's country or sold to a company. After this accident comes the other one. You know, you've been there and you've been visiting, and that's the flood in the Podrinj area, starting with Love, all the way there to one part of the Sword. The citizens of these areas ask with justification – who is responsible for all this? As we've heard and spoken, it's suspected that it's a human factor. If your government officials have come and been familiar with the situation on the ground, and have not adequately acted and fulfilled what the Emergency Law foresees, which is to help every citizen, and today the government has not met any families, so that these citizens can resuscitate their own goods. It's a sign that almost none, not one law, of any ministry, is respected. I'd like to get a hold of the Banjo Mockingbird. The government with its own procedure has made, believe me, an emergency situation there. I was there when there was a rally and I saw hundreds of cops. For a long time, there weren't so many cops in Loznica, and it's all the government and the ministry that's been in charge of all this. You've made a dissension among the citizens of Banja Koviljaca. Some are against it, some are in favour. And they're both them and them. But when it comes to the citizens of Banja Covillas, they are aware of everything and of all the happiness that they always win in Banja because in some ways they've always worked to help the citizens of Loznica. The situation has calmed down, but there is still a tendency for some citizens to drive those asylum seekers away as soon as possible. Everyone, especially you, is full of human rights and freedom of equality. People from Banja Koviljaca who have long looked at this problem have decided that one day they will come back to you or the Ministry and ask – what will you do with those asylum seekers? Amendments and additions to this emergency law are needed at this time. But every time you do something, you don't finish it. That's why we'll keep, constantly and all the time, as far as we can and can control the government, but now it's too late because this government is probably going to fall in a few days. And in today's day you can hardly see each other. I don't know what's gonna happen. The election's here, so we'll take it slow again. I believe the citizens of Serbia are not happy with you, and you know it yourself. I know you're correct and you always say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63418	Eight minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. After that, MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these two laws, and above all, our police and emergency sector, i.e. employees in the emergency sector, were expecting. I can't say with impatience, but we expected that there would be more significant changes. Unfortunately, the very fact that these two, certainly for SRS, important laws, are being discussed in this way and in this deaf age, without direct transmission. Gentlemen and gentlemen of the emergency sector, you're not going to get any better. Simply, this government has continued something that began on October 5th 2000, in continuity, not only in the collapse of territorial integrity, but in the economic and economic downturn of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, there is no matter and simply does not want to help our citizens across Serbia where basic disasters occur. We are absolutely aware of the fact that the police are doing a lot of things, which is certainly part of their activities, with a single dose of dissatisfaction and unhappiness. In particular, when it comes to preventing any strike from any area of economic activity in Serbia, unfortunately, we are in a situation where civil servants strike for us. All those who are on the budget, that they are in some way dissatisfied and strike. That's how we've had a strike from the eds, and we've also had a strike from an independent union of police. You promised them that collective contract, however, there's absolutely nothing of it. That our police are working under difficult conditions, of course it does. Let's not talk about what kind of equipment they're working on. You are all referring to these, Buddha God, European standards and crazy policy that the EU does not have an alternative and constant talk about EU standards. It's just that we have all this far away and there's absolutely none of it. The police themselves have been forced, when it comes to equipment, to deal with themselves literally on their own. Let's just say, what's extremely irresponsible is that the ministry can't provide them with adequate equipment, that they haven't gotten the equipment for five years, that the shoes buy themselves on a flea market. It's just amazing that the government of the Republic of Serbia has no understanding for our police. Not to tell you the situation of smaller police stations across Serbia. It needs to go through Serbia and see. In many, there is no heating, and in the summer service, it is absolutely impossible to work. Sanitary nodes are in catastrophic condition, not to mention the very responsibility of you when things are vitally important that you simply fell on many things. First of all, I'm thinking about making our plates. It's a shame and a shame. Half Cyrillic, half Latin. A disaster, Mr. Minister. That kind of money was given, and the plates would have to change again. You should have prepared yourself for such a thing, not in such a way. Our police, I said, are reluctant to participate in many of the actions he has for the task of his work. That's what I mean, like, security of a gay parade, but they had to. Fortunately, this year, something like that isn't allowed. When it was the prevention of strikes, first of all, of our farmers who protested the price and purchase of finished agricultural products and our cattlemen, they simply had to do something they didn't want to do, with regard to their incomes that they have and which are very low. Many of them at home have such additional activity, they had to simply get these people out of the way and not allow them to come normally where they belong to protest, which is the address of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state. But let's move on to this emergency law. I think Serbia should now declare a state of emergency. Given what's going on in our southern province and above all to protect our own from the Ship's terrorists, because the situation is more than alarming. Our government recognizes their parent books, acknowledges the cadastre, acknowledges their diplomas, etc., and our people die from the arrival of your friends KFOR and NATO Pact. The other day, we were in a situation where a thousand and another Serb lost their lives. What the Government of the Republic did specifically. Absolutely nothing. She didn't even honor the declaration, to come here before the MPs and before our builders. It's clear to everyone absolutely that this government has betrayed KIM. You, as interior minister, should certainly have come forward, to state your position, because when 20,000 Serbs apply for Russian citizenship, is that not enough signal that you should pack your clothes and buy out of Serbia? I'm not specifically referring to you, Mr. Minister, but to those who signed this famous reconciliation declaration where you forgot everything and poured ashes. It is just amazing that many things can be forgotten in Serbia for personal reasons and for money to get over everything. It is clear to Serbian citizens what is happening in our southern province, especially for us Serbian radicals. We warned continuity what would happen to Serbia. What's particularly wrong with me here and what's happening to my eyes, is that here in these amendments and additions to the Emergency Law, you transfer jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina. We warned that, first of all, with this shameful statute of the province of Vojvodina, Vojvodina would receive a prerogative federal unit. It's the same thing that was done with KIM. One step at a time until the secession. Today, in Vojvodina, we have the duke's science of academy and art. They've already opened an office in Brussels. (President: People's Parliament, please on the subject of the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina... (President: National MP, when I warn you that you are in an exhibition in violation of a member who also obliges you to follow a provision that obliges you to talk about the agenda, and tells me that I am obliged to give you a warning measure if you do not, I am doing so while listening carefully and trying to assess whether and how far you have strayed from the agenda topic, and now it is, so I ask you to return the topics of the agenda. ) Certainly, the Ministry of Emergency and Emergency Sector, unfortunately, has work to do in the Republic of Serbia. We are all witnessing major natural disasters, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but throughout the world. Come on, what basic disasters, when it comes to floods and hurricanes, etc., hit America, they deserve it, because being a cover on every sherpa, simply God looks at it and has to bring it back, but what does Serbia and the Serbian people do? Currently, in our emergency sector, 72.8% of staff employment is also at stake. What's certainly worrying is what our emergency sector is in. For example, the number of vehicles to say is satisfactory, but certainly not age age, because the average of vehicles for emergency situations is about 30 years. So, one fireman rescuer, according to some standards, thousands of inhabitants should be. We're in a situation where we have 40,000 residents of 10 to 15 firefighters. With the organization itself, and above all with the rolling stock that they have and certainly with their protection, above all, I mean the intestines, everything that the duration has already expired, I don't think they can adequately meet the challenges they face. I'm saying, we're really in a situation where there's a lot of fires, where there's a need for interventions, and I'm not talking about voluntary fire companies where technology is far older, and that simply with all due respect, they can't help the emergency sector in municipalities where it's mostly stationed in the community headquarters, and all the other places around have just voluntary fire companies, and I just can't, regardless of their great will and consciousness, to help, they're incapacitated. Of course, there needs to be far more work and investment, first of all, in the Emergency Sector. The Serbian Radical Party considers, because of the fires that took place in the Republic of Serbia, we have had the opportunity to see that only the Russian Federation brothers helped us, first of all with their helicopters, and you know that, when they were able to locate large fires here in the Republic of Serbia. We had a chance to see that only the Russian Federation brothers helped us, first of all with their helicopter, that you know, when they were able to locate big fires here in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, what Serbian radicals are saying and saying, that we should turn to our traditional friends, and even here when these emergency situations are at stake, we think this is a good thing that opens up in Nis this sector, and that it will certainly have an effect. The other thing is, our friends are afraid, let's just say it's not just the Emergency Sector, honestly, I'd like to be the base of the Russian Federation, not the NATO Pact and Bonsteel base, as we have a chance to see. It would certainly be better for Serbia, and above all for Serbs in KIM. When it comes to natural disasters, first of all groundwater, we are also in a situation where year after year, a growing phenomenon, unfortunately the climate is such, but certainly if more invested, first of all, in the treatment of the canals, that our agriculture would not be in such a situation, when groundwater is at stake. But that's why, AP Vojvodina, you're anti-constitutional to charge for the disposal of our agricultural producers. Instead of clearing the channels, the level of groundwater would automatically be far less, less damage, they would simply be interested in filling the budget and saying they're anti-constitutionally charging the disposal, which is more than the tax on the whole country they're processing. If it had any effect, I believe that our people would pay, but it certainly shouldn't pay because it's against the constitution and it has no right, first of all, to the Leader of Vojvodina and we can't have parallel institutions in Serbia. And everything on the back of our citizens. I say that our officers and the Emergency Sector expected much of these two laws, nothing of absolute importance will change, and the Serbian radicals think that they can certainly not support these two laws in the voting day, there will come a better time for both our police and all citizens of Serbia, more than obvious, and the question is whether these two laws will be passed, given that you have a narrower and narrower majority. And this morning we were in a situation here to see that you somehow managed to get a grip, and certainly the citizens will know that, given that we hear such statements, the election campaign has already begun, suddenly no one in the ruling majority is responding, but that's why you had to make such a government by EU order. I hope this is the first time, for the last time, and never again in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63420	It was used 15 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Dragan Šormaz, followed by a folk MP, Mica Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, I will mostly discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Here we have heard from Mrs Tabakovic that the Parliament Club Forwards Serbia's SNS and has no particular objection to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Emergency Law. We believe that he is, more or less, well done. We've given a few amendments in a technical sense. If they are accepted and if their nature is what we have proposed, if accepted by the ministry, the proposal will probably be even better. If not, there will be other opportunities, and we will change that. In any case, I'd like to commend the work, we've already heard it, that it's not just someone in power doing it, Mr. Maric, I don't know if he's been on vacation since he had to spend all summer around those fires that we had around the Kings and other parts of Serbia to be active. I repeat what Mrs Tabakovic said, will, strength, desire, conscience, honesty, the sacrifice of one man cannot replace the systemic shortcomings, and the systemic shortcomings, above all, there are still plenty in this part of the police. In other words, not only would the ministry submit this amendment to the Police Act that the one adopted in 2005 has shown that there are some shortcomings. We participated, a minister who was then chairman of the Committee on Defence and Security, and I as a National MP, it seems to me that we both voted in favour of this law in 2005, but practice has shown that it should be changed in certain parts of time. I'm sorry it's working this way. I think maybe it should have been done before. There were stories about last year's gay parade, where there were some shortages, and various riots at stadiums and sports events, including some armed robbery we had, these legal shortcomings that make the police ineffective or exposed to some unnecessary violence and insufficiently protected. It seems to me that in a moment, while this government is already ending, I have the impression that this amendment and the addition of the law has been prepared in haste. It seems to me, perhaps I'm wrong, that it's stored under the pressure of the union. We have recently seen frequent strikes of various police unions, sometimes all, sometimes some, with different demands, primarily status issues that really need to be changed and repaired as far as police are concerned. This is how we get into the election year in a few days, and it all led to, let's say, I think that these changes and additions to the law, it seems that some of the things that interest unions are more or less represented and the ones that concern the protection of police officers seem to be gone, and there have been so many stories. It seems to me that a month ago I heard the Director of Police say he was going to advocate and how, now he's not going to confirm it, to change that part of the law that speaks of the use of firearms in certain situations. We know that the use, according to the 2005 law, is very complicated, that a policeman must first show his badge, so he can present himself, so he can warn, so if he's threatened to shoot in the air, and only in self-defense to use the weapon. We had a robbery case at the Commercial Bank in Belgrade. That procedure is so complicated. Only when we think of a U.S. police officer being protected. When an ordinary traffic policeman stops someone and says: put both hands on the wheel, if he says – with your left hand, if you use your right hand and take out your license, he has the right to shoot you immediately. That's why there's a camera recording whether the whole procedure is in accordance with the law. We have a camera in some places, we don't have one. That's why the citizens are confused. There are also some things in the police department that I know have long been spoken by police officers, both before the 2005 law and to this day. The police must be effective. The police don't handle it, the police are in charge. There are some things that hierarchically have to comply with, and we have such laws that in certain situations, for example, someone is inefficient in the place he performs, perhaps unfairly, let's say, unworkable, until you can take him out of such a place, put him in a lower job or a less paid job. It's procedure, you all know it well, God forbid. In such a way, the police cannot react quickly in certain situations, sometimes late. I think it's very important when it comes to economic crime. When it comes to this kind of struggle, I think it needs to be more efficient, we all see that, but I can see that there are no proposals in that part of it in these changes and additions, to make the police work more efficient. However, what made me sad and probably wouldn't say this way about how I'm going to speak below, probably my speech would have been different if I hadn't, and probably all of you've seen it, this UN report after researching one of their agencies since 15 November, so that was exactly seven days ago, it was announced that in Serbia, we all know, at least in the Assembly, I'm talking constantly about that, that Serbia's biggest problem is corruption, i.e. Serbia's states, but according to the report, the most corrupt in Serbia is police and state administration. I need to be honest with you to say that I'm a little surprised. Maybe even under the impression of the media earlier, where they talk about health, where they talk about the judiciary of corruption, over and over, I tried to talk to ordinary people, they say so, yes, these traffickers don't charge the penalty take, immediately bring down to that level one red, two red, goodbye, when the punishment is very expensive with the judge, but it's certainly that corruption, there's, of course, it needs to be freed, I said, it's technically solved, the camera in the car or the camera when it's being shot in excess of speed, and you have proof in court, there's nothing more that cop to participate in. Again, if I were surprised, I thought that some others, and I don't see why we wouldn't trust the agency hired by the UN, there was a permanent UN co-ordinator in Serbia, Mr. William Infante sharply criticised the Serbian government for the lack of significant results in the fight against corruption. He said that at a regional conference -- a partnership against corruption. He stressed that Serbia's anti-corruption institutions are weak, that their future is uncertain, that they do not have enough employees, and that they are only at the beginning of work and said that there is such a high level of expectations and acceptance of corruption in Serbia and that therefore there is systemic corruption, a beast that is not easy to overcome. From word to word. As Mrs Tabakovic said, first of all, I don't think the whole police force is corrupt, of course not, and that's what the individuals in the police are responsible for. I'll give you an example, probably the minister won't like the example very much. I'll tell you first about the system part as well as I can. Here we heard, there was one question of distinguished colleagues, Komoc, when will it be according to the Government of E Administration, E trade, regulated and all that, when will a certain ministry adapt to that? There's something called E procurement, electronic procurement. When we introduce this into Serbia and, of course, change the Law on Public Procurement, as the SNS suggested, then significantly reduces the degree of corruption in the country, but unfortunately, as far as I see it, this government does not come to mind. A few days ago there was a testimony in the court, the case began, with a special court department in Belgrade, the famous trial of Saric, and there was a testimony from Mr Milet Jerkovic, who is one of the defendants and also a witness, whom the prosecution carried out as a witness to speak about the whole case. I note that I was already talking about it and that when I spoke, a few years ago, there may be three, I was talking about a gentleman named Branko Lazarevic, who was the chief of the cabinet of the police. We all know that he was once on the board of directors of Mitro Srem, later, before he came to the police, he was no longer in the company, but his, along with whom he bought, privatised the company, or whatever was already on the board of directors was, through the company Determ Ilejjens, co-owner, they bought that company Mitro Srem, with his brother-in-law, later his nephew in this action, against Saric, then the minister said that it was absolutely not possible that someone in such a high position at the MUP and that he was working for one of the criminal groups, reacting to some newspaper inscriptions. It's never been proven to work, whether the investigation went that way or not, I don't know, but someone doesn't have to work, can work with certain criminal groups, but unfortunately, the investigation never went that way again and none of it was done. I will remind you that at that time the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Slobodan Homen said that the time had come, it was February 2010, to develop a ball of crime policy, economy and media. And, of course, to this day, nothing has happened. What has to be said in this whole case has been investigated until the end of all the cocaine trade, it is true, but there has been no investigation of money laundering and the release of the official secret that Jerkovic spoke of at the trial. Twenty-two times in his statement, he mentioned the name Branko Lazarevic. He's a diplomat in Greece now. I don't know if it's Athens or Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63422	People's MP and I'm asking you about the subject of the agenda. So, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63423	The fact is that only the Evening News, you can see in two extensions, began to publish transcripts from that trial and suddenly stopped. So, they're not done, they're just two, and they're supposed to have 15 extensions when we talk about that high-cap of politicians, high capital, some firm worth 25 million euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63424	People's MPs, we're talking about amendments and additions to the Emergency Act and to the police. Your duty is to do so, we are doing with respect to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and it is yours to speak of the agenda, and it is mine to remind you of that. So please about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63425	Last sentence. So if corruption isn't a problem that doesn't deal with the bill, and the police are being apostropheeded as the most corrupt in the country, which I repeat, I don't believe, but I also believe that the fight against it should have been an integral part of the amendment to this law, and it's gone. I hope that in the next period after the next elections, much more attention will be paid to it, and some of these cases, because these are examples of problems in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63426	Thank you. Thirteen minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic, and he is the last to be reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63427	I thank Madam Chairman, and I know you won't have a problem reminding me of the subject of the agenda, but I already have enough paper in front of me that I don't know how I'm going to manage. I am taking the opportunity to welcome Mr. Minister and members of the ministry and I would just like to say a few words first on amendments to the bill, or the draft law on amendments and amendments to the emergency laws, which is what is essential what the SNS suggests to the promoter to have in mind when deciding on amendments. In order not to repeat everything my previous speakers have said, it is primarily the use and in this proposal to amend and supplement the laws of foreign words and expressions that I really don't think have any reason to find places in this text. The second thing is mandatory licences and this law as well as a series of laws that the government has come to this assembly again continues with this licensing problem for all and all things, at all costs, to be certified. We think that there is no reason in this sector and that there are enough professionally trained human personnel, with additional costs in terms of their training and certification. Because this is a bit of becoming fashion, with every law required to prescribe licences and certificates and additional exposure to the costs of people who have to acquire the right, or licenses. What's particularly important, Mr. Maric and I think you should consider, which is Article 19. The draft law, and that position 7 is that it is prescribed that shelters can be leased in peacetime conditions. We have a situation of almost a little over ten years when we have a problem with shelters and their use in peacetime conditions really makes it difficult and impossible to use them in emergency situations. You can't give someone this space leased and at some point ask them to move out to be used for emergency situations. I'm telling you this on the basis of experience, unfortunately from 1999, and based on other experiences and simply experiences of all of us, not to mention war situations. You know that modern wars begin unannounced, in a moment and now you need that space you leased for a public shelter, you need to empty it. Very impossible, very impractical and will cause problems in this sector. I therefore appeal to you and to the Minister to take this position 7 into account. The draft law in Article 19 and that it is simply deleted, because I know that funds are needed in every sector, in the budget, in all things, but this really in emergency situations, in war especially, is causing unprecedented problems and the consequences of even wide scales to remove damage from or elemental accidents or accidents due to war actions. We also believe that the introduction of a public shelter company in Articles 61 in paragraphs 2 and 3 is unnecessarily complicated and extends, and thus collects the procedure, i.e. the procedure for issuing building permits and other documents necessary for construction, by introducing the same company into this procedure. We think that these elements are all what needs to be done in this case, simply embedded in spatial and urban plans and that a permit can be issued by one act normally issued by the authority responsible for issuing urban conditions, location and construction permits. These are mainly main objections to the Emergency Act. I mean, especially, these two that are very important, and, of course, Article 19, you should think about it. I'm going to move on to the Law of Change and Completion of the Police Act. Mr. Minister, I have a feeling you haven't been very involved in all this. If you look at the reasoning of the law, it's only on two sides. You're slightly insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. I haven't seen the bill yet, whether it's about changes and additions or a basic law that's really only on two sides. The Constitution stipulates that laws enter into force within eight days exclusively in cases of general interest. What did you state in your reasoning as a reason for the law to be followed by an emergency procedure and to be adopted the next day after the vote? That, in your explanation, is really... And knowing the resources you're leading and your course of action, I'm telling you, I don't think you personally took part in all this. It turns out that this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the Bills, is adopted because it does not comply with a special collective agreement. A special collective agreement should be aligned with a collective contract. If we had a period of six years that the existing law was not good, then what's so urgent right now is that as much as tomorrow, and it seems to me that things are going to go as far as this law is going to be voted tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to come into effect. It really says that part of the election campaign and the situation is the harmonisation of the law with the collective agreement. Inappropriately, nowhere known, but the situation leads us to this kind of thinking and is seriously showing that it went in this direction. There is a situation and the fact and reality of the state of police and that the conditions of work and the lives of these people really need to be raised to a quality level, but six years from the existence of the law and its problems which have been shown in the implementation of this law now these days have simply been brought to the top of their existence and it must be done according to an emergency procedure, and today we have three serious laws and here in principle there are 20-30 MPs from all MPs who from morning to night should have continuity of a few laws and it is almost impossible to keep serious attention to the subject matter that these laws are dealing with. If you wanted to show your legality, and I think it's up to you to solve it, we wouldn't have had a situation, Mr. Minister, if we had a vice director like we do for years. I think it's up to you to solve this problem, but in that case, we show how we want to respect legal regulations. What's important is that we, the Progressive Party's parliamentary group, aside from some general story, you know about the state of police, the difficult conditions of these people's work, even in the absence of basic equipment to work in a situation that travels a few dozen miles to their workplace every day and everything else that is a burden for these people of the ministry you run, these are the situations of competitions that literally do not exist for police officers, but also for some other officials. In the context of this story that Mr. Shormaz said earlier, the report really worries the situation, and we are all somewhat surprised that the UN envoy's report in Serbia is bringing corruption to one of the high corruption sites in Serbia. I think that, in part, because of all these things, and also by proposing this law, this process of competition is almost eliminated and then you know that they have a variety of stories and will always stand the stories of being hired by relatives, such as this, such a party and other line in very important places in the MUP. The other thing is, I took off some other uniform 20 years ago, but then we had an unfettered internship not for all people. Not all officers can be put in the same basket with people who work in the field. Not everyone in Mr. Maric's sector, people who are putting their lives at risk by carrying out actions in terms of solving natural disasters in relation to officials who are in offices and on all of the privileges that people should have, and in terms of the benefits of the benefits of work and staff, they really put themselves in the same basket. I don't think that makes sense. What else isn't acceptable? It is not acceptable for the organisation to function as special units of police and the status of its members to be governed by the act of the minister. So recently, we have a very complicated and complex situation with such a unit of JSO and we should not allow the experience, not because of you personally, but to be governed by the act of the Minister. This problem should indeed be very responsible or specific in order to regulate the Government because special units themselves are special categories of armed formations, where the establishment and regulation of positions must be conducted with special attention, and therefore we suggest that instead of the term "act of minister" we use the term "act of government". What else is in article 7. Interesting? A suggestion to say helicopter. They're not the only aircraft to be used by police units. There are other aircraft that may not be used, but laws are not made only for us, there are also aircraft for recording and fire-fighting aircraft, so in Article 7, instead of the word "helicopter", it should propose or make changes with the word "aircraft" which is wider and covers all other terms, and not just the words "helicopter". There are cases that the police units in their history used planes, but they were planes of the State Security Service, and that was the period when they used to, say, use one situation -- the son of a high-ranking state security officer to operate an aircraft that helps with organized cigarette smuggling. Now everyone will think it's during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, no, it's much later, you're almost not involved as a party and we really need to take care of it. We believe there are legitimate reasons for the dissatisfaction of police officers, but it's not all about compensation, it's not just about shelling. Mr. Minister, the position of police will not be solved by these changes and additions as some financial sector, and with that you have come before us, MPs, there are still many problems that need to be solved and work on it. What is it you're not consistent with, Mr. Minister? You said the police were going to retire when they were 50. We have a situation where people, as proposed by this law, are forced to retire. You're not consistent with all this, and you know that people at the age of 50 are the most experienced, especially in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63428	Thank you. This exhausted a list of speakers, and there are no entries on the lists. Before concluding a joint principled search, I'm asking if anyone wants a word that hasn't used their right to Article 96? National MP Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63429	The esteemed chairman, respected secretaries, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, respected MPs, would take the opportunity to express on behalf of the parliamentary group of United Pensioners of Serbia the satisfaction of the ministry, particularly the minister, with the involvement of police and the Emergency Sector. As far as the law is concerned, I would like to point out on behalf of our parliamentary group the few moments that matter at this time. First of all, we are in favour of improving the overall material position of the Ministry of the Interior, and in this respect we will have a chance soon. The Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget soon enters the procedure and we will have a chance to prove what we have said today in action. In particular, we stress the need to pay particular attention to improving the material position of police officers, workers in the Emergency Sector, special concern in families of injured members of the Ministry, working conditions and especially about meeting housing needs. Another issue that is also important for us is the need for other laws to address the accumulated problems of members of the interior ministry, above all I mean the Pension invalidity Insurance Act. We did something here when we passed the last law in December 2010, but we don't think that's enough, and especially for those members of the Ministry who work under difficult conditions. Also, about the Health Protection Act, the Social Security Act and others. Third, we point out the need for a more coherent relationship between citizens and members of the MUP, especially the police. I would stress the need for that education of citizens and the need for citizens to take care of their own safety and their own protection of their material goods. If we had the police as much as our citizens, we wouldn't be able to protect everything we need to protect our order. In this regard, the particular need to engage local self-government in relation to the country's security situation, we think that local self-government is both in the municipality and in the city, and in the province part of the state, and that those special concerns must take care of the security of their citizens and protect the material goods of their citizens. I'm saying this because in practice it's present and we have examples of very good ones. I'm just going to point out an example of the police minister's intervention when it comes to the citizens of Novi Sad in connection with the issue of documents. Such co-operation and such relationship must also be established to take responsibility for local self-government and relation. At the very end, I point out our wish. We will support both draft laws and cast our vote in the day of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63430	Four minutes have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right in Article 96 who wants a word and before concluding a joint principle search? When the situation is that the opposition MP suggests that I allow the minister to a little wider interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, please. The minister of police. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63431	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I don't want to keep you too long, one half hour to explain what you were talking about. Since Mr. Miccio is the only one left of the entire opposition, I could devote myself to the answers to his questions. I'm just kidding. I don't think it would be right if I didn't just say a few words about the most important questions you mentioned here. You have before you the law on amendments and additions to the Emergency Act. Every law when it is passed is one period after which one should see what someone in the building says is the collapse of the building or the terrain. It was important to see if it worked here. I would just like to remind you that it was a revolutionary venture, because for the first time in Serbia after a long series of years of united structures dealing with emergency response, so for the first time, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of the Environment in our emergency sector was united. This was very important in order to avoid the fragmentation of the system, so that it would not happen as it was a few years ago, that when a bus in the river falls, it would first have to be discussed who would react, or whose jurisdiction it was. There are different models in the world. We've defined ourselves for this model, because it's logical, because the MUP has the greatest logistics for these things, to be within the MUP. It now has all its accompanying elements. What you've noticed here, representatives of the SRS, we're trying to make sure that this problem that exists everywhere in the world, usually when it's too late, that we don't come into a situation to discuss something when it's too late, so it's important that, in accordance with our material, financial and technical possibilities, we try to organize our emergency sector as best we can. I think it's been shown in all these months that there have been successful reactions and ceasefires, and here are the fires today. Here it is in mid-November. There are still fires. During the summer, we had fires and floods at the same time, so there are obviously climate disorders. We had an earthquake, we had reactions, or rescue from the ruins. In all, the MUP will try to take over some of the best experiences in the world, related to the creation of this sector. Why was it necessary to amend and supplement this existing law? Among other things, the global documents, or UN documents, viewed in other words only as the authority of some emergency headquarters, or bodies used to coordinate, so that it actually grows into a national platform to reduce the risk of disaster. In that sense, when it comes to emergency situations, there is only a headquarters in Vojvodina to react to the territory of Vojvodina. It's the only thing that exists in the Emergency Act, which is perfectly normal, because every municipality and city and county has a response headquarters, so it's normal to have a province. In that, if we see it as breaking Serbia's unity, I think it's the wrong approach. Also, it regulates ways of eliminating emergency situations, public shelters. What I think is also important is our charity center in Nis. It is Serbian-Russian or, as they call it, Russian-Serbian, we have agreed to do so, it is bilateral, it has no regional jurisdiction, so there is no confusion there now, there is no jurisdiction to manage emergency situations in other territories, in other countries, because simply those countries do not want it. Do we think that many are now thrilled about such an idea? No, because that's what they're talking about, they're asking the question -- what is it really, is it really a humanitarian centre or is it something more than that? We have recently, last week just, or this week, mixed up some dates, had a conference where we tried and where we did, so to speak, intervening at a meeting between European Commissioner for Emergency, Kristaline Georgieva and Deputy Minister of Emergency Sergei Shoigu, meaning his deputy Plato, where we simply made it clear that we do not want to enter the EU on the one hand, we have a European emergency response system, and on the other hand, a regional centre is being created that can now introduce some confusion, because here we have to react and command from one place. So it's a centre that's being created, not to manage other situations in other countries, but simply so that the equipment that exists can be used at the request of those countries for emergency response. So I hope that we have solved all these problems and that this will no longer be put forward as a dilemma at some international gatherings. Of course, war, state of emergency, Kosovo and Metohija, demographics, these are really difficult issues and difficult situations, but they do not fall within the domain of emergency situations. So emergency situations are defined, what are the emergency situations that are caused or that are natural disasters, natural disasters, or caused disasters, but war facts, when it comes to this sector, we are only dealing with, to say the least, reacting, or reducing the consequences of terrorism and war facts that come into the war. So, this headquarters now has no authority to be a competitor to the General Staff or any other authority, just so we don't mix those two things up. This is actually civil protection. Believe me, when we came out of that socialist system, I was small, not so small at the time, but around here, when we went into another system, we thought that some of the expressions from the past were completely out of line. You remember there was social self-defense, civil protection, universal defense at the time of Tito. Civil protection is now a term I meet all over the world. Here, Predrag Maric signed in Paris two weeks ago, together he signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with the Directorate for Civil Protection of France, and with us someone would say it's some term that's out of date. Simply, that expression is used in the modern world. So, what's there is civil protection, we've called here emergency situations. Maybe that's not even the best name. In some countries it's called catastrophes, then it's clear to everyone what this is all about. Here when we say emergency situations, someone thinks about emergency situations immediately. I remember when there was an earthquake in the King's house, the King's City Assembly declared an emergency. The media found that a state of emergency was declared in the King. It's just that people mix these two things up. Not to speak now, they mentioned here, but they've already left, so asylum seekers are also a difficult problem, but they're not an emergency. The accommodation of asylum seekers is not in the jurisdiction of the MUP, thus dealing with some other ministries, commissaries, etc. We're helping them solve this problem, but the police can't make sure who's going to sleep in this country right now. So, first of all, we catch illegal migrants, who, when we catch them, usually seek asylum. It's somewhere around 5,000 illegal migrants in our country and it'll be this year. A large group of 18 people was arrested today, where the group's leader was from Subotica, who was involved in the illegal transfer of asylum seekers and illegal migrants from the territory of Loznica, i.e. Banja Koviljaca. That is one problem we have in relations with the EU. We just need to be clear, we can't, and this isn't a theater show, but not in your house. We want our people to go abroad and be asylum seekers abroad, and when someone comes to Serbia, then the problem – what does he do now? He came from Somalia, or I don't know where he came from, Afghanistan, what he's doing here, etc. We have to be part of some normal world. I agree that such a number shouldn't be in one place. It was such a situation, Serbia simply never had such problems with us. That capacity in Banja Koviljača, 80-100 beds, and there was never 2500 thousand. That's not true. In Serbia, there are 2700 asylum seekers. That number was somewhere between 700 and 800. Some were asylum seekers, some were illegal migrants. We first stepped up police security in the government of the Republic of Serbia. There's ten gendarmes there, even though there's no need for that. There's been no incident by asylum seekers. On the contrary, there have been incidents against asylum seekers. There's been a crime of rape by an illegal migrant to a foreign citizen. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia has joined, and now we need to see where we put these people. You can see that demonstrations and strikes begin even in those environments where no one even mentions asylum seekers coming. It's actually proof how often we don't understand the essence of this problem, and from other countries we're asking for understanding for us. The equipment, the fleet, it's exactly not that old, but it's about 22 years old. Right? He was a lot older, but this one wasn't exactly commendable either. Although, we also had museum copies. I have to say, recently when the emergency sector is. The firefighters have established very warm city relations with Welsh firefighters. They've decided that 22 vehicles that are already, to put it that are written off or at the end of their careers, to give them away. They drove them to Ruma. Those vehicles just replaced those Fapp's fire trucks that I think might go directly to the museum. It's about a couple of police stations that had this Fappovo vehicle in their fire-extinguishing fleet. It's really a big problem. The problem is there are fewer firefighters. Mr. Maric told me, I don't know if it's real or not, that's what we're gonna find out. He said there are fewer firefighters in Serbia than in Albania per capita. It's something we have to build. It's normal for a country our size to have about seven to eight thousand members of the emergency sector. Now there are nearly three thousand firefighters. There's a thousand more. There are certainly one three thousand people missing in the next period, if we want to be part of a European system, how it works. We need to build the 112 system so that these numbers they were talking about here, the units, that you no longer have to call 92, 93, 94, 95 than you can turn 112. We wanted to do it earlier, but we don't have any money. When there have been different budget cuts, it's always the police that can't achieve what our plans are. We also asked the Ministry of Finance to give us permission to fund the 112 system by contributing people using the phone, which was seven dinars per number. So seven dinars per citizen. We were rejected by the Ministry of Finance, because it would be imposed on the citizens' budget. A little bit when I look at what's under duress, I don't think those seven dinars would even feel it. But they promised we'd get rid of some other funds. He says it didn't happen anywhere except in America to make sure. I'm willing to do it by American model, because we really don't have another model. This system would allow when you turn 112 to automatically mobilize all services that fall under emergency situations. So, the firemen, the rescuers and the police and the ambulance. There are even, if we take modern solutions, which we could talk about, Mr. Maric and I across Europe, models where he can identify exactly where the call came from and in case there was a physical attack or loss of consciousness or a car accident to know exactly where the help should come from, whether it's an emergency or a police force. This is just one part of the amendment to this law. Maybe in a few years we'll be changing and passing a new law. When it comes to the law on police, I must most honestly say that the amendment and addition of the Police Act came as a result of our desire that, based on what the union wants in the police, we change that part of the Police Act regarding the working-law status of police officers and their rights. Why do we have to do this so fast? Because we can't apply a special and collective contract until the law on police is amended. The police law was passed in 2005. However, it has never been applied to the part concerning the salary of police officers. He was more brought up to say that the cops have a right to something, but he was never put into life by the part and the member that we're changing now, who says the police have the right to increase the 30-50% ratio because of that, that and that. It's never been applied. On the other hand, cops had no right as other workers under the Labour Act to charge all those rights they had. So, overtime fees, night work fees, work during the holidays. The police were in a situation, I think it's the only profession in Serbia that hasn't been compensated for what I've been talking about. Then the prosecutors come, the judge comes, they exercise the right to what they have, and the policeman who comes says, "You have the coefficients in pay." Basically, it wasn't any of it. We have now agreed with the union to see, for the first time in Serbia's history, a special collective contract was signed for police officers. I think it's a big deal, not just for this ministry, but for the whole state of Serbia and that it will remain behind me as a minister and, ultimately, it is one achievement. True, a collective contract is signed every three years and it will have to be restored, but here for the first time now we have separated police officers from civil servants. So now everybody's not gonna have the status of police officers. There will be a change in the process of authority, then a benefited internship and everything else. New systemization, new pay rules will be brought in. For the first time in a special collective agreement, the basics for the military and the police are equal. So far, the army has had a larger foundation. I therefore believe that this was a priority issue to be found on Parliament's agenda, because the agreement was to apply a special collective agreement from January 1st, although we would have come up with conditions to then discuss a systemic solution to the position of police rather than some palitative measures that could only be short of breath. Therefore, all these other issues may not have been treated in this way as working legal and social issues. It'll probably stay for some others. Here we were just talking about some of the most necessary changes that matter, and the rest will remain for maybe some new law on police, maybe some new system solution or some changes and additions. I don't suffer from the fact that it's a historic thing to change or make a law. If you see that one law is wrong or that you have done something wrong, in a month we will correct it. Better to correct a mistake than to slave with certain principles. When it comes to peacekeeping missions, why doesn't parliament make a decision to send police? Because according to our constitution, it decides to use the army abroad. Police are not armed formations in terms of military, police abroad do not participate in military missions, police participate in civilian missions, so they decide on government participation. I didn't make it up, it was during the last government of Vojislav Kostunica. For the first time, our peacekeeping mission went to Haiti and to Liberia. It's a small number of cops, it's all about four, five, one, two. Now in Cyprus is our mission. I think it's good for our country's credibility. Of course, we don't have enough money to send a unit out of a hundred people, because it couldn't be sustainable for us. When it comes to retirement, you can no longer retire at 50 years old, the Disability Pension Insurance Act has been amended. There are different examples in the world when cops retire. I have to tell you, just like for MPs, you know, she was a few years ago telling stories when it's going, there are really models in some countries, and there are models in the other. When it comes to cops, most of the time it was mandatory for someone to retire at that age and age. Today, it's essentially more like a possibility that someone can leave at 53 years of age and the condition that you have 15 or 20 years of employment. So you have 15 or 25 years of police work as an authorized official or other authority, which means you're a police officer. But that doesn't mean that everyone will leave at the end of the year, because I sign those solutions always. There's a large number of people who don't retire, and if they could use that right. I have to tell you now that you asked me that, when you said that, this isn't about someone not going to retire. When it comes to the police, many are sorry they didn't retire last year, when it was much more favourable and I think the one-year average counts. If the cops were to figure out how much pension they'd have last year and now for a new one, I guess that would be a very significant difference. But it's not the subject of this law, it's someone else's law. I hope I said exactly what I said. I can do five more minutes. Thank you very much, I'm sorry if I've kept you, I can speak for myself, but I suppose you have some other obligations now, and since you've talked about the glory, that is, the day of the police, yesterday's glory of Archangel Michael is, by the way, very often in many police departments right now celebrating the police, because Archangel Michael is known as the guardian, protector, fighter. Yesterday I was in Trebinj, right at the glory of the Republika Srpska MUP, and our special anti-terrorist unit has as its glory Arangelovdan. I want to congratulate all citizens on the glory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-22-0.u63432	Thank you. Given that my non-relenting oatmeal was not given in time to Minister Ivica Dacic, the first vice president of the government, but I said the words, I ask that part be deleted from the stenogram. I am now concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Emergency Law and the draft law amending and supplementing the Police Act. This concludes today's work. We continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., continuing a joint principle and single search on agenda points, as we adopted today. Thank you.
