ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Please welcome together with applause the conductors and members of the Pančeva choir of the Serbian church singing society, which will sing the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Attending are: Father Radoslav Milanović, Elder of the Successful Temple, Bozidar Marošan, President of the singing society, conductor Vera Carina, and members of the choir: Anka Janković, Ljubica Stošić, Svetlana Borić, Dušan Solomun, Eleonora Tadic, Irena Đurić, Marija Ilic, Marina Polić, Milena Mihajlović, Tijana Nedić, Milana Višnić, Slavica Nikolic, Marija Miljic, Zorica Popović, Duška Zivković, Ivana Milosavljevljevic, Jasmina Vladisavljevic, Marijana Buzančić, Milica Lakić, Snezana Đerić, Tatjana Stojanović, Vera Tanovic, Violeta Borović, Siniša Radin, Aleksandar Petrović, Goran Miljković, Milos Pavić, Milović, Milun Stan Stan Stan Stan Stan Stan Stanjić, Pristić, Pristić. Intonation of the anthem. ) Dear People’s MPs, on the basis of official records of the presence of Members of the People, I find that the session is attended by 134 MPs. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please place MP cards in the units of the electronic system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, we are established to have 126, i.e. there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61674	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer the question to the Minister of Culture and Information, and there is a problem with information in the Presevo Valley. In fact, RTS still doesn't have one minute of programming in Albanian. Then, in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac there is no repeater to boost the signal RTS, and thus the reception of the programme is very bad. On the other hand, they are very regular in judicial proceedings in punishing citizens who do not pay a subscription. I ask the question – does it make sense for citizens to pay a subscription if, first of all, they have a weak or almost no RTS TV signal and, on the other hand, as a national minority who makes an absolute majority in Presevo and Bujanovac, there is not a single minute of program that would concern their problems and everyday life, in this language as well. On the other hand, daily presses from Pristina have long been having serious problems to read and follow in Presevo and Bujanovac, as administrative, customs and I do not know what problems arise when they arrive and the press. It is allowed in Bujanovac, in Presevo through the Muchibaba border crossing cannot. When the press gets to 12 o'clock, it's not even news to read anymore, because people through other means of information already come to what they should read in the paper. I often go very early to Pristina, through Gjilane and in all the villages where Serbs live very early on "Blic", "Politika" and all the daily presses. Why did these changes after 1999, not only in other areas, in the economy, in the education I'm talking about, become boring about diplomats and other problems that haven't been solved in 10 years, but now the problem with the daily press is also emerging? Thank God if someone has a satellite antenna, now technology has made it possible for people to be informed that way, and yet that daily press has its meaning. I think the Ministry of Information should be more directly involved in removing these problems that arise, probably with the MUP. To finish, I would ask the Minister of Culture and Information Markovic to consider this issue more seriously, so that we can be given information as far as we can in solving these sensitive problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61675	Thank you. I would like to inform you that on behalf of the SNS, MP Gojko Radic will be asked on behalf of the URS, and on behalf of the Pejica People's MP. I give my word to the MP Vesni Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61676	I was approached by the citizens of Panchev to ask why the train running between Panchev and Belgrade is going slower and 15km is now crossing for two hours, and Panchevo says it is the abuse of Mayor Panchev. That is why I am addressing the ruling coalition to examine it, especially the minister of local self-government. Is it true that her husband opened a bus stop and, in order to get the citizens to use that bus, pressured the train to stop working at all? I convey this question, to determine why such a terrible situation is and why the citizens of Panchev, who have to travel to Belgrade, suffer every day, never know when the train is coming, how long the train needs to travel, and they have doubts that it is an abuse. So I ask the answer to this question, on behalf of the citizens of Panchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61677	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question that is very important for the minority Roma community in Bujanovac. We were with President Shaip Kamberi, me and the Roma delegation from Bujanovac, who has a coalition with the Democratic Left of Roma, and we asked that the streets of Moravska 76 be paved. The situation there is very alarming, there are many internally displaced faces, living in an unhygienic settlement, it's a very difficult life, but also here where the urban settlement is, we talked, Shaip Camberi promised us that it was in the program and that it would end. I've also spoken to fellow MP Halimi, and I've asked for it to be transferred. But to this day, I believe that according to the Constitution and the law of infrastructure, not for individuals but for all citizens the same thing should be done and that Roma live as other citizens. What is stalling with street asphalting, I find it indemnity and inappropriate, disrespect for the minority community, which is a large number in Bujanovac. The Democratic Left of Roma appealed to President Bujanovac, and I would also ask counterpart Halimi to do everything and to allow the Roma community in Bujanovac to make possible what has been guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, which is infrastructure, and there they have no asphalt for a long time. All the streets mostly have asphalt, and where the Roma are gone. I don't see why it seems that way, I don't need to give a special accent, I don't want to say it now, but I think there's a big discrimination against one nation if they don't get what's in the Constitution and the law guaranteed. I appeal once again to the president and to my colleague Halimi to finally complete the asphalting of the streets in the Roma community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61679	Thank you. National MP Konstantin Arsenovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61680	I have a question for the Ministry of Defence, which refers to the forced eviction of families of military pensioners who are temporarily located in the military institution "Dedinje" ul. Velimir Rajić No. 2nd on Stargazer. In fact, it is eight families from 1,600 to 2,000, which in the 1990s escaped from the secededed republics and who were left without their apartments. I wouldn't want to talk about the terms of these families' accommodations, because it's below all levels. However, the Deedinje Military Institute tried to move these families, I am talking about these eight families, out of the said facility, which is why the evasive faces launched a dispute at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. The first basic court in Belgrade reached a solution on 10 March 2011, which means this year, which reads: "A temporary measure is being taken on the prosecutor's proposal and is banned from the defendant's Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, the Military Institute of "Dedinje" from Belgrade, the use and availability of rooms from 112 to 118 delaser, Velimir Rajic No. 2 in Belgrade, especially to start or implement the emergency move of prosecutors from these rooms. The prosecutor's proposal is rejected to set a temporary measure to order the accused Republic of Serbia, the defence ministry, the Belgrade Military Institute to hand over the same rooms emptied from the person and things to use the prosecutors within three days. The temporary measure set out in the first position of this solution remains in force until the legal end of this procedure." However, however, the Military Institute "Dedenje" pressures these families to move out and use various means, the latest news is that disfellowshipped water, off-heating, is not being taken out of the trash and simply trying to move these families out of the area. These families are otherwise in an extremely difficult situation. That's why I urge the Department of Defense to exert influence and suspend their eviction until a court dispute is resolved. This is before we declare a rule of law and we are obliged to respect it, at least we respect the court's decisions. I have information to offer them other rooms. However, if it is noted that this area in which they are housed is also unsatisfactory and the minimum conditions for normal life, then the question is what is only the space offered, since logic imposes on everyone to accept better, that is why no such reasoning stands. In general, the problem of the evasive military faces has been going on for 20 years, and this plan has been a little done. These homeless people are exposed to stressful situations, so it would be normal for the state to take action more effectively on this plan and not make their living conditions more difficult, as is the case with these families. I can guess the reasons why they want to move them out, probably that facility was sold, but at least it's appropriate to provide them with more favourable conditions of accommodation, at least as flat as they are now, if not a little better. If a man doesn't have an apartment, it's hard to provide good conditions, but enough to tell you that they have a shared bathroom, a shared bathroom, three times a week hot water, so look at the century we live in. I thank and hope that the Department of Defense will have an understanding for these families I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61681	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61682	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I have one question and a request for a notice from you, Madam President. We are witnessing that these days the fate of our Serbs in KIM, especially in northern Kosovo, is slowly pushed into the seal, in a media second or third plan. I want to win, and it seems to me that it would be much more important for the public of Serbia to get some notice from you. Since I am one of the members of the Security Committee who is somehow disabled because I respect this country's law, because I respect the statement I signed with my election in the Committee on Defence and Security, and some obviously do not respect it, so some of the heads of parliament's parties, as far as I have seen from the media, have announced a conversation with you requesting a new session of the Security Committee. Since I can't confirm and deny, I say by respecting this country's law to say anything about what was at that Security Committee session, we can say what was before the public hearing was declared. First, the session was scheduled by the opposition, the citizens of Serbia, to know, and this is consciously pushed into the media seal. So, the opposition and Mr. President of the Security Committee, Dusan Bajatovic, have organised the meeting according to the Rules of Procedure. That the Security Committee's session should be declared publically voted by the ruling coalition and by some, especially those now who convince what was at that session. So, I repeat, honor, face, morale and respect for the laws of this country does not allow, and if I suffer pressure from both the citizens and the media, as a member of the Security Committee, to say something that was at that session. First of all, I must say, by respecting the position of Mr. President of the Defence and Security Committee, Mr. Bajatovic, who thinks that a new session is not needed and that it would turn into a political trial, that is, my position, please, the president, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, because of Serbs in the north of KIM, if someone has forgotten, they have been at barricades tonight, barricades still exist, the state of Serbia is behind these barricades, although according to the statements of KIM Minister Goran Bogdanovic. So Serbian citizens have the right to peaceful protests. Because of the interest of these citizens, because of the public, because I don't see the coffee there is, what happened wasn't supposed to happen, someone shot at civilians in battle, and that's why I would like to, and I really don't expect an honest answer from you, I wouldn't ask you to tell the MPs and the public if there were any conversations with the heads of some parliamentary parties who had announced a conversation with you in public about the appointment of a new Security Committee session, and can you say anything about that to the new citizens of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61683	Mr Markicevic, if this morning the president of your parliamentary group or you were at the College that was regularly called, you would feel the sincere atmosphere of the talks on the issue among the members of the College. On Mr Jovanovic's proposal, therefore, we have assessed at the College that it is necessary to convene a meeting of the Security Committee and, in that sense, both Mr Jovanovic and Mr President of the Committee were given the appropriate tasks for calling the meeting. It's the atmosphere from the morning meeting we were expecting you to meet. There will be sessions, and the assessment of whether it will be opened or closed will of course depend on the content of what is the topic of this session's work. National MP Milos Aligurdic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61684	The question is very interesting, and first of all, a shorter introduction that is directly related to the question. Last week was the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and suddenly they put in a point called the situation in the Balkans, not because of the situation in the Balkans, but to discuss KIM. Of course, with the aim of the administration in the Council of Europe, to bring another resolution in a series that should make it easier for us to enter into the definitive independence of our southern province. We as members of the delegation each in his own way did something to alleviate that text or to change it so as not to have the connotation she had at the beginning. In principle debate, in the debate over the resolution, the head of our delegation Dragoljub Micunovic voiced his position on the need to hold an international conference under the auspices of the EU that would eventually resolve the KIM issue. When I asked him – where, since it was not so far in our established state policy, nor did he put such an attitude through any decisions of the National Assembly, I was given an explanation that it was a personal position, and if it is a personal position, of course I respect it. The only thing I'm not sure is that those who listen to what's being said there or those who pass it on, since it's not these explicit exposure fences, they see it as a personal attitude. However, my question is not directed at Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, I just explained how it went there. My question is directly related to an idea that was not heard for the first time by our colleague at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. She's heard from other places, heard from certain non-governmental organizations, and she's going through it here and there. I have to say what's in that idea is very problematic and from that my question to the government will follow. So, so far, in a formal sense, the only cornerstone for us as a state, when it comes to protecting the integrity of the state in a formal sense, were the UN and the role that individual permanent members of the UN Security Council have. If this is Russia, Russia was always in the front row when it comes to the defence, then we are witnessing that in the UN itself, as an international institution, the idea of an independent Kosovo has so far found no basis. Therefore, we, with full right, have asked the international rules of the game to be in the UN, that the UN be the basis for this whole story, and of course there is someone there who protects Serbia's interests. If this story is removed from the UN framework and made any agreement with Serbia's consent to an international conference, which is held elsewhere, under the auspices of another organisation in which there are no factors to protect our interest, it is thus doomed, even under the idea of a revision of Ahtisaari's plan or I don't know what else. So my question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very simple, given everything we've seen so far that I'm not repeating our story is very consistent, it's clear that it's about leaving our standard friends when it comes to protecting integrity, entering an EU wing that clearly has no formal statement as an entity on this issue, but as an entity that has its own entities, members, whose majority has recognised an independent Kosovo, it's clearly seen in which direction it's all going. And my question is very simple – will the Government of the Republic of Serbia have a consistent policy on this matter? What is their concrete attitude towards the EU, the UN? Are these ideas that have been heard of her acceptable, so that we know what attitude towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take on this matter and to know what to talk about? After all, this is how everything looks like it so far, and it's practically the last nail to be placed in a coffin story with Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61685	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gojko Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61686	I am asked by a group of parents to ask Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, and I wonder if Subotica is the first city in Serbia where first-class primary school students attend bilingual teaching in Serbian-German and Hungarian-German languages? I would like to point out that parents enrolled their children in the first class on June 21st, 2011 to follow classes in Serbian. A part of his parents under pressure and in a deceitful way gave consent to attend bilingual classes, and a part of his parents did not give consent until today and did not want their children to attend a part of their German class. Now these children who are enrolled in the first class in Serbian, while teaching in German, are sitting in a room and will probably not be evaluated from those courses. Parents have been conditioned since 1 September 2011 to give written consent to bilingual teaching or to write children to another school, a kilometer away, with children crossing the highway of Subotica – Novi Sad. In this way, it was done contrary to Article 9. The law on the foundation of a system of education and education, which says in attitude 1: "the education and educational work is achieved in Serbian". Article 98, which says, "every school is obliged to enroll every child in the school area" and Article 19. The law prohibiting discrimination in paragraph 1 states: "everyone has the right to pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education and vocational training under equal conditions under the law". Question – is it allowed in Serbia to have children enrolled in the first grade of primary school in Serbian mother tongue and school in the same language without being discriminated against? Did the elementary school "October 10th" in Subotica ever get consent from the Ministry of Education and when for the implementation of this pilot project in terms of bilingual teaching, bilingual teaching in Serbian-German, or in Hungarian-German language, or did someone self-initiately introduce it in Subotica? Did you know that besides all our teaching staff, among which there are many unemployed, children attending bilingual classes in Subotica, teach teachers from Germany? By what teaching plan and program do the bilingual elementary school departments "October 10th" in Saturday? And I have another question for the minister of justice. In 2003, a mortgage was introduced in Subotica to "Spartak" stadium, so that after eight years the mortgage would be deleted. It is not a problem that the mortgage has been deleted, the problem is, whether it is introduced, reform in the judiciary where certain judges are conditioned to end certain cases against law, to stay in the workplace. This case is also interesting here, because the judge at the time introduced the mortgage, and then the acting judge is now the deputy of the republican public defender who filed a request to delete the mortgage. One of these same judges brought in the introduction of a mortgage, one of which is the same judge, in another capacity, seeking to delete from the mortgage. The question is, if it's all by the law how then, if there are five mortgages at Red Star Stadium, none of them were erased. Or come on, you can beat and beat around Serbia, Serbian cities any way you want, there the laws are not applied and they don't need to be applied, but in Belgrade most likely, someone is very powerful, it's very hard, and they can't go into the oblivion of the mortgage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61687	The People's Parliament of Miroslav Pejica has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61688	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this way I would like to point out the problems facing the city of Loznica as a local self-government. In fact, several times in the previous period, our public was informed, through printed and electronic media, of the problems created in the asylum center, located in the tourist resort of Banja Koviljača. Namely, the capacity of this asylum is 80 asylumees, and at this moment in Banja Koviljača there are 2500 asylum seekers, which you will recognize every third resident of Banja Koviljače is an asylumist. This is official data from a police station in Loznica. I have to say that last night in the B92 news, in the time of 18.30 hours, the head of the Border Police Administration, Mr Nenad Banovic, called to deny this information and said that the number of asylum seekers in the Banje Kivljac area is ten times smaller, and that this information is used for political purposes, so I would take this opportunity and invite him to come to Loznica city to check this data because it is impossible for two police officials to provide completely conflicting information and thus confuse the public. With the desire to respect the Law on Asylum, as well as all the ratifications adopted by this congregation, and the formerly convened the congregation, especially those relating to respect for human rights and freedoms, we feel compassion for all those people who must have been tormented and unhappy to inherit their home and country and to temporarily settle in our home. However, we feel the obligation and responsibility and towards our population, the citizens of Banja Koviljaca and Loznica who are traditionally welcoming and kind, which many of you certainly know, but lately they are increasingly feeling fear, fear and uncertainty in their city and their courtyards. The touristic image of this spa and Banja Koviljače was marred, and many guests cancelled their arrival this year because a huge number of newcomers with unknown culture, behavior and customs appeared. I must also say that these people in the asylum, only 80 of them live in the shelter, and others sleep in the park, in abandoned houses, in abandoned wagons on railway stations, living in very unfavourable conditions, in several squares sleeping dozens of them, so that they live in unhygienic conditions. Local self-government has repeatedly notified the authorities of this problem, but there was no answer. The population has been even more alarmed and frightened since last week, as the seven asylum groups clashed and members of the MUPs reacted in time and prevented unwanted consequences. Also, at the end of the week, there was once again a violation of public order and peace and self-injuring and harming of one of the asylum seekers, so I am using my opportunity to say that the situation is very alarming, to refer the matter first to the government, to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, then to the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of asylum and refugees, Mr Jovan Krkobic and Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and to ask them what and within what time will they, as responsible for these situations, take in accordance with their responsibilities and powers to avoid unwanted situations, so that they are warned and the existing problems are solved in one effective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61689	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, to go public and say what the government's policy is, or the DS policy is about Kosovo and Metohija. It is obvious that these past three years, Serbian citizens have been deluded, and it is obvious that beneath the grains something is happening that will as a finale have the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, only looking for a way to do so without taking responsibility. If that were true, the chairman of the DS political council, Dragoljub Micunovic, in the Council of Europe, has also shown that he believes Kosovo's solution can only be found at an international conference. On what grounds? Under what right does the president of the DS Political Council and, unfortunately, the head of Serbia's delegation to the Council of Europe represent such credentials and such facts? These are the so-called first steps that will allow this kind of thing to happen and it is obvious because there is absolutely no dilemma there because, continues Mr Micunovic, he says -- a solution to the Kosovo problem can only be found at an international conference if there is a stable peace. Well, who gives you the right to step out of the UN and Resolution 1244 because it is the only thing that allows kiM to remain within Serbia? You, at any cost, at the order of Brussels and Washington, want to leave the UN, want some international conference under the auspices of Brussels. Who in their right mind would think we'd get anything at that conference? In Brussels, everyone's for KIM independence. We extradite it without any problem. What's particularly amazing is that it's been used here for quite a long time, that the real state of kiM is. You know, it's real if someone takes away some of your property, but that doesn't mean we have to accept it and admit it. KIM was violently kidnapped by KFOR and handed over to Albanians. We can never agree to that, but this is the way you want it. Be careful, the highlight of the concept of international law, democracy is in this sentence spoken by Dragoljub Micunovic in the Council of Europe, says – the fact is that two million people have chosen their representatives and declared their country, but with opposition from a small number of inhabitants. My people, is this possible – in Serbia, in KIM, Serbs are a minority? What's the real thing? I guess in one country all the residents can decide, but that's what brings this KIM situation to the finals that Brussels wants and that's what Washington wants. That's what you're doing. We, among other things, requested a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly on 21 September where the government would file a report and has an obligation to submit a report on the KIM situation within three months, particularly regarding the situation at administrative crossings. You made a commitment in that declaration, it says there, but that session has not yet been scheduled, as it has not been scheduled since 2008, when 108 MPs asked for the session. It's the most obvious way to cheat on Serbian citizens, you want to extradite KIM. Another fact that I think is also important, a declaration on the condemnation of the use of force by KFOR against unarmed civilians has been filed in Strasbourg. The declaration, among other things, was signed by 13 Russians, Martin Graf, vice-president of the Austrian parliament, lawmakers Armenia and Malta. All MPs from Republika Srpska signed it, but Dragoljub Micunovic refused to sign the declaration. According to Dragoljub Micunovic, no force was used in Jarinj, when six civilians were wounded. That is the essence and this shows your attitude towards the Serbs in KIM and KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61691	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61692	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will ask some questions because I am concerned about the attempts to criminalise, spread the truth and the hickey that are being held over Serbs from the north of KIM for days, and in which, unfortunately, MPs not Albanian, but the parliament of the Republic of Serbia are taking part, and some of the media in Serbia are not critical. I attended the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security on KIM, which was closed to the public, which caused a number of controversy, primarily due to subsequent interpretations and comments, an interesting politician who was not at all at that session. I believe that incorrect public information on events in Jarinj is not only done to Serbs with KIM, Serbia's negotiating process before Robert Cooper's arrival in Serbia, the damage has been done to Serbia's European path as well as to Serbia's parliament. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what message do some MPs send to the citizens of this house? Is it a message that since we're making decisions, we'll be the first to break them? Are we sending this to the citizens of Serbia? Since I respect both the National Assembly and the laws we are making, I will not talk about the details of that session, but I will, of course, ask some questions. The first question is asked by Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic - how is it possible that politicians who were not even present at the session that was closed to the public inform the public about the same session? Is there any possibility that the alleged information was received from MPs, I stress from MPs who received their signature that the details will not be published? While we insist that both Mr Jovanic and I, to the public, find out everything, I call on them to say from whom they received the information, if it is the MPs, that before all MPs they are carrying legal consequences for giving away state secrets. We are all looking for an independent investigation into the events in Jarinj and, above all, the presidents of the municipality and the head of the northern Kosovo district and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Europe, just some domestic politicians who are supposed to defend domestic colors, undermining the truth, do not lie, allegedly know what happened in Kosovo, although they were neither in Kosovo nor in the Committee's session. For days, we have been listening to their statements that Zvonko Veselinovic, with his 20-member group, has reportedly caused incidents. Some questions are raised -- how is it possible that none of the members of this group are injured, and there are 20, and they are said to have been shot at KFOR, and KFOR has used excessive force in self-defense? The second question, how is it possible that most injured Serbs were shot in the back, and were said to have been hit in the attack? I will remind the public that after the Jarinj incident, KFOR has denied the use of ammunition fighting, only under pressure from Kosovo Mitrovica hospital evidence admits that it used battle ammunition in the attacks. I would like to join Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's request for a new session of the Defence and Security Committee and ask that the session be open to the public, but provided that, apart from the MPs of the police and military summit, the presidents of the KIM municipalities and the head of the district are present to hear what they have to say. They're on barricades every day, and they know the situation on the ground best. I am sure they have something to say and it will be interesting that both MPs and citizens will find out what the KFOR commander told them at a meeting after the Jarinj incident, when they showed him the Geneva Convention, that it is strictly forbidden to shoot civilians, health workers and sanity. He told them, I quote -- KFOR soldiers had a perception that someone was shooting at them, so they fired. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, KFOR soldiers had a perception that someone was shooting at them and that's why they fired. I also call on Serbian security services to ask Eulexes for footage of this event, Serbs with KIM are very interested to be seen by the whole public and the whole world, to broadcast on the media who have triumphantly begun here a one-way investigation into this event, and I fear that we will struggle to get these videos because according to the information I have, some international officials are seriously lobbying that the whole case is being covered up and there is no independent investigation at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61693	Time. Do any of the other representatives, or presidents, of the heads of Parliament, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milica Radovic. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government as well as Dusan Nikezić, Vuk Djokovic and Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, then Ružica Stojiljković and Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Višna Kuzmanovic and Dejan Hadzic, advisors at the Ministry of Finance, as well as Nada Mirkovic, Head of Budget in the Ministry of Finance. Since the quorum has been established at the beginning of the session, you have been presented the records of the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, so I suggest that we re-establish the quorum to declare these records. As we are currently on 128 registered, I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's office has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 27, 28, 29, 30 June and 1, 4 and 5 July 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. Of the 132, as far as we were told, 119 voted in favour. I find that we've adopted the record I suggested for adoption. I am voting on the minutes of session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 13 and 14 July 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. Of the 132 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I put to the vote the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 14th, 19th and 20th July 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. Of the 132 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record as well. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 20, 21, 22, 25, 26, 27 and 28 July 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. Of the 132 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record as well. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 25 and 28 July 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. Of the 132 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record as well. I am voting on the minutes of the 2011 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on July 30th and 31st 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. Of the 132 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record as well. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly require the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the Proposal for supplementing the proposed agenda, the Proposal for bringing the debate together and the Proposal for amending the order of each agenda. A group of 24 MPs from the URS parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Elections of the President of the Municipality and Mayors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 May 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, 35 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 24 MPs of the URS parliamentary group proposed that the draft public property law be put on the agenda after an emergency procedure, submitted it to the National Assembly on 30 May 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 134 MPs, the vote was 22. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 24 MPs of the URS parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Property Tax Act, which was submitted on 30 May 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, 25 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 24 MPs of the URS parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Agricultural Land Act, and the proposal was submitted on 30 May 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, it voted 24. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 20 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 June 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 17. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 20 MPs from the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on payment deadlines for beneficiaries of public funds and state-owned enterprises, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 18 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia F/P 1720, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on amending and supplementing the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus from 31 March 2009, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, 115 voted I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Variety Rights, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, two voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The Committee on Finance, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision to elect a member of the NBS Board, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law be put on the agenda following an emergency procedure to issue a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of A.D. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law confirming the loan agreement, a risk insurance project in the case of natural disasters for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Maritime Navigation Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on July 28th 2011. Please make a statement. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 20 MPs from the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a declaration on the definition of a new state policy on KIM, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 July 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 16. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings, which was submitted to the National Assembly on August 01, 2011. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the reduction of the number of persons without citizenship, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 August 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the EPS guarantee contract for the Kolubara project, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 2 September 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, 111 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime and rules on the country of origin of goods under the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Free Trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Russian Federation since 28 August 2000, which submitted to the National Assembly on 02 September 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 05 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 05 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 143 MPs, 119 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Transport Obligation Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2011. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Of the 136 MPs, 121 MPs voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government is on 7 October 2011, based on Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, in an urgent procedure, the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on strategic partnership and co-operation, submitted on 30 September 2011. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Of the 136 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Radojko Obradovic is, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on payment deadlines for beneficiaries of public funds and state and public enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 20 MPs of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, 19 July 2011, and to be classified as the 2nd item of the agenda. Does MP Radojko Obradovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61694	This law is, as you said, a bill on payment deadlines for beneficiaries of public funds and state and public enterprises. He was handed over on July 19th and today you have read at least twenty laws, only this law is not found on the National Assembly site, for my entirely unknown reasons. There are laws proposed by the government, there are laws proposed by other parliamentary groups, but this law is not on the official site of the Assembly, so that all those watching this, unfortunately, cannot see what is in the text of the law. The idea of the law is that, in addition to the state there is a Budget Law, the Budgetary System Act and the Public Procurement Act, it once again defines the deadlines required to pay all the obligations that the state has. According to official institutions, the state owes 108 billion dinars and that central government 10 billion, public enterprises 38 billion, cities and municipalities 40 billion and local utility companies about 20 billion dinars. It is one of the basic or important reasons for the many companies in the blockade. According to the National Bank of Serbia, at the end of May, 64,500 companies and entrepreneurs were in a blockade, a good part and due to government debts. We believe that this is an extremely important issue, that it can solve the many problems that exist and that it can only be solved by law. No regulations, no other forms to address such an important issue and yet another emphasis on the responsibility of public enterprises, states and state enterprises to all those who work, and the state is the biggest investor in this country, must be dealt with by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61695	I put Mr. Obradovic's proposal to vote. Of the 152 MPs, 19 MPs voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals on granting consent to the decisions on amendments and amendments to the 2011 Financial Plans, the Republic Fund for Pension-Invalid Insurance, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, the National Employment Service, the Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on property taxes and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Traffic; the Common Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the grant of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Civilian Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loans between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia 1720, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Court Insurance in the case of elemental disasters for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Joint Single Review of the Act on the Law on the Amendment of the Act of the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put Mr. Ratkovic's proposal to vote. Of the 133 MPs, 126 voted in favour of Mr Ratkovic's proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed a change in the order of the sitting agenda, so that the order of the first four points of the agenda would be as follows: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2011 Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to decisions on amendments and additions to the 2011 Financial Plans of the Republic of the Pension and Invalidity Insurance Fund, the RZZO, the National Employment Service. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act. 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. 132 MPs, 126 of whom were in favour, came forward for the proposal. I find the proposal accepted. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, a proposal to supplement the agenda, a proposal to merge the debate and a proposal to change the order of the agenda points, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. Of 132, 127 voted in favour. I find the proposal accepted. I ask the service to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to decisions on amendments to financial plans for 2011: 1)Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, 2)Republic Institute for Health Insurance, 3) National Employment Service, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-3218/11 of 23 September 2011) 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-3361/11 of 5 October 2011) 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, submitted by the Government (number 43-3362/11 of 5 October 2011) 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3380/11 of 6 October 2011) 5. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, which has submitted to the government (number 400-2749/11 since 28 July 2011) 6. Proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia F/P 1720, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-267/11 of 22 July 2011) 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Risk Insurance Project in the case of elemental disasters for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-2750/11 of 28th). July 2011) 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Kolubara Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-29411 of 2). September 2011) 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol of the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, which was submitted by the Government (Number 335-2516/11 of 8 July 2011) 10. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus from 31 March 2009, which was submitted by the Government (Number 335-2672/11 of 22 July 2011) 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime and rules establishing the country of origin of goods under the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Free Trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Russian Federation of 28 August 2000, which was submitted by the Government (Number 335-2943/11 of 2 September 2011) 12. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the incentive and mutual protection of investments submitted by the Government (number 46-2674/11 of 22 July 2011) 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters submitted by the Government (Number 011-2865/11 of 19 August 2011) 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-2766/11 of 29 July 2011) 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the reduction of the number of persons without citizenship, submitted by the Government (Number 204-2866/11 of 19 August 2011) 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation, which was submitted by the Government (Number 011-2499/11 of 8 July 2011) 17. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Governments of the BSEC States ( Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organisations) on Anti-Crime Cooperation, particularly organised forms, Additional Protocol of the Agreement between the Governments of the States of the BSEC States on Anti-Crime Co-operation, especially organised forms and Additional Protocol on the fight against Terrorists (No. 713-2624/11) of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation in the fight against Crime, particularly its organised forms, which the Government has submitted (No. 713-2624/11 since 19 July 2011) 18. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on police co-operation, submitted by the Government (number 2-2867/11 of 19 August 2011) 19. Proposal for a law confirming the RACVIAC Agreement – Centre for Security Cooperation, submitted by the Government (number 011-2873/11 of 22 August 2011) 20. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the area of emergency situations submitted by the Government (number 011-28711 of 22 August 2011) 21. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the South East European Law Implementation Center, submitted by the Government (number 011-2915/11 of 29 August 2011) 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for Law Implementation in Southeast Europe, submitted by the Government (number 011-3206/11 of 23 September 2011) 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on registers of release and transfer of polluting substances with the Convention on the Accessibility of Information, public participation in decision-making and the right to legal protection in environmental matters, submitted by the Government (Number 501-2460/11 of 6 July 2011) 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on environmental co-operation, which was submitted by the Government (number 501-2673/11 of 22 July 2011) 25. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Argentina on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports submitted by the Government (Number 27-2513/11 of 8 July 2011) 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on the abolition of visas for their nationals, submitted by the Government (Number 27-2514/11 of 8 July 2011) 27. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Bolivian Republic of Venezuela on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, submitted by the Government (Number 27-2515/11 of 8 July 2011) 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, which was submitted by the Government (number 27-2864/11 of 19 August 2011) 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on visa waiver for their citizens, which was submitted by the Government (number 27-2863/11 of 19). August 2011) 30. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens submitted by the Government (number 011-3210/11 of 23 September 2011) 31. Proposal for a law confirming the amendment to the Convention on the International Organisation for Mobile Communications via satellite, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-2872/11 of 22 August 2011) 32. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic, which was submitted by the Government (number 344-2922/11 of 30). August 2011) 33. Proposal for a law confirming Amendment 1 - 6 to the European Agreement on the work of crews on vehicles carrying out international road transport (AETP), which was submitted by the Government (number 344-2925/11 since 31 August 2011) 34. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of tourism, which was submitted by the Government (number 332-3208/11 of 23 September 2011) 35. Proposal for a Law confirming the International Maritime Labour Organisation Convention, 2006, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-2675/11 of 22 July 2011) 36. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of culture, which was submitted by the Government (number 6-2759/11 of 29 July 2011). 37. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Strategic Partnership and Co-operation, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3298/11 of 30 September 2011). We move to work on the established agenda, i.e. the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2011 Financial Plans of the Republic Pension and Invalidity Insurance Fund, the RZO, the National Employment Service, the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on property taxes and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. In agreement with the Decisions of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals for a decision to give consent to the decisions on amendments and amendments to the 2011 Financial Plans of the Republic Fund for Pension-Invalid Insurance, the RZO, the National Employment Service, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Supplements of the Law on Taxes of Assets and the Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Traffic, and before the opening of a Joint Principle and Single Search, I would remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have a total time of debate for parliamentary groups of five hours, and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia for one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform the parliamentary groups that they have authorised them to represent: Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; Veroljub Arsic, the Progressive Group of Serbia; Dragan Stevanovic, the SRS parliamentary group and Aleksandar Vlahovic, the ZES parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals for a decision to give consent to the amendments and amendments to the financial plans for 2011: the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalidity Insurance, the RZO, the National Employment Service, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on property taxes and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. Does the proposal representative Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Finance Minister want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61696	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, you have before you a draft budget rebalance for 2011. It's a document that the government did a little less than a month ago and delivered it to the National Assembly three weeks ago. I think this is very important that a sufficient period has been left for MPs to be able to get acquainted with the materials in detail and to adopt this rebalancing together through a quality debate, along with amendments that will only fix it. What are the reasons why it was necessary to bring rebalancing? First of all, I would divide those reasons into two groups. One group of reasons is the reasons on the side of the income, the other group are the reasons on the side of expenditure compared to the budget that is otherwise adopted and which is being applied today. When it comes to reasons on the side of income, it should be borne in mind that the Law on the financing of local self-government provides for a certain redistribution of money from income tax, in that sense that, instead of payments to the central budget, payments are now to a large extent being transferred to local budgets, which by definition leads to revenues in the central budget being slightly lower. Also, after significant growth in the first two quarters of this year, certain signs appeared in the third quarter that perhaps the new crisis that occurred in the euro zone, first and foremost, then in the countries that are in our environment could have an impact on our country as well. Therefore, given that we are not an isolated island, we have considered the issue of assessing the growth of the gross domestic product for the current year and new calculations have been made, it is concluded that it is realistic that this growth is planned at 2%. Since the previous plans were 3%, this reduction in the growth plan of the gross domestic product also led to a decrease in revenues in the republican budget, thus calculating that revenues this year will be less than planned. So these are two reasons that have defined our approach to reduce projected income. On the side of the expenditure, there are also a number of reasons. These reasons are particularly linked to certain social benefits both for pensions and salaries in the public sector, in the area where they relate to inflation growth. As you know, inflation in the first quarter of this year was quite high to stop somewhere in April, since the downward trend took place. In the last three months, we've had practically negative inflation. However, the indexations carried out were based on the beginning of the year and therefore the total aggregates were envisaged, pensions and social benefits, which otherwise comply with the inflation rate, harmonised at a higher level than the levels originally planned, and therefore required a correction on the side of expenditure. The government, however, has come to the conclusion that it is revenue and expected reduced inflows in the budget, that it must accept it as a fact and is thus done in this rebalancing. The evidence that the expenditures were involved, we felt that all these increases had to be realised on the burden of some other items where savings would be found and so the basic concept of the budget was that practically the total level of expenditure in the rebalancing was kept identical with the level of expenditure in the basic budget. There is, of course, one small difference from some three billion that we have given in the name of incentives to economic development in terms of anti-crisis measures, so the expenditures are practically as high as they were, plus three billion. From there, it follows that the essence of the deficit is essentially due to the missing income compared to the original expectations. The budget, of course, since we have recently had an independent body, a fiscal council that is required under the law to give an opinion on the budget, he considered the draft budget rebalance, gave an opinion delivered to the National Assembly. I believe you've had a chance to see him, it's positive and I'm pleased to say so. Also, as you know, we have talked to the IMF about the continuation of arrangements that will be of great benefit to us, especially if there is a tightening of the crisis in the coming period. I am pleased to remind you that on September 28th, the IMF Director's Board of Directors made a decision, in fact, confirmed the precautionary arrangement with Serbia. What are the basic characteristics of budget rebalancing? If I'm supposed to define it, I think it's three. The first is that it is a socially responsible budget, and social responsibility is reflected precisely in what I said, that despite the fact that incomes should be expected less than those originally planned. However, the government has decided that the most vulnerable categories, those that are beneficiaries of social giving, pensioners, etc., provide enough resources, so that indexations are fully under the law and they do not have to worry that they will have problems with paying off the funds they belong to. Secondly, it is a budget that actually promotes economic growth by separateing some additional resources for this incentive, and the very fact that the deficit budget, by its definition, is a tool that all governments apply in the event of a crisis, i.e. reduced economic growth. Finally, this rebalancing confirms the policy of reducing public consumption and, if we look at it in figures, public spending in the previous year was 45.5% of gross domestic product. According to this budget, it will be 43.8% this year. This is a significant reduction in public consumption, i.e. its participation in a gross domestic product that is close to 2%, namely 1.7%. A little bit about global numbers. Budget revenues, as I said, are reduced. They rounded up according to this budget are 707 billion dinars. The expenditure is almost at the level of the previous, along with the three billion I explained, they amount to 850 and the budget deficit is slightly less than 143 billion dinars. Of course, this deficit is fully in line with fiscal rules where there is a link between the rate of growth of the gross domestic product and the height of the deficit. If these rules are respected, in the coming years as the gross domestic product grows, the deficit will be reduced, that is, one moment it will come into surplus when we reach more growth rates, which is the goal. The functional structure of the budget is approximately: 39.4% is set aside for social protection, 17.6 for defence, public policy and security, 15.3 for education and science, 11.8 are economic businesses, i.e. incentives for business, employment and agriculture, 3.8% are transfers to other levels of government, 3.7% are the costs of administration involving executive and legislative bodies, financial and external affairs, so we have a situation that the clean administration participates in us with below 4% in our budget, 8.4% are other functions, sport, culture, interest, environmental protection, etc. The rebalance provides for the debt structure necessary to finance deficits at the consolidated state level of 153 billion dinars, i.e. 4.5% of gross domestic product, and as you have seen, at the republican level, the deficits are lower, meaning that some locals, or funds, also function with the deficit. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that capital investments and incentives for business and agriculture exceed the amount of deficits, i.e. debts for about 30 billion dinars, which essentially means that the debt is not used for wages and pensions but exclusively for the construction of infrastructure and for incentives for economic growth. The rebalancing also allowed the government's economic policy to continue in line with the Economic Development Strategy by 2020, which envisions growth in the coming period based on the production of exchangeable goods that are export-oriented. The first results of this policy can be clearly seen through an increase in exports in this year, which is at the historical highest level and about 20% higher compared to the best achieved in 2008, with imports lower by over 10%. Also, the policy of attracting foreign investment that should provide new export markets and employment also yields results, as Serbia has been a convincing regional leader for many years in realised foreign direct investments. This will seem strange to someone because in public the impression that foreign investments are not welcome for us. But when you look at the whole environment, you will see, we have that data, that Serbia is practically a leader in attracting foreign investment, despite not being satisfied with their level. These results confirm that we must constantly improve the business environment in the country in order to ensure the necessary conditions to create new production jobs and increase the competitiveness of the Serbian economy. In this respect, in addition to the incentives envisaged by the budget rebalance, the government will implement a number of additional measures to ensure, in the post-crisis period, conditions for the dynamic growth of the Serbian economy, namely: the payment deadlines for the republican and local authorities up to 60 days, the provision of favourable credit lines, one of which is already available, and this applies to the Apeks credit line of the European Investment Bank intended for small and medium-sized enterprises and exporters, a total of 250m euros at interest of only 5.5%, with three years of grace periods and nine years of repayment periods. A development bank will also be established by the end of this year, which will represent a new quality in supporting the export segments of the Serbian economy. In the next two weeks, you will face changes to the Tax Procedure Act, which will introduce the obligation to pay contributions to employees during the payment of net earnings, which will ensure not only a more orderly payment of employees' rights but also a higher level of competition on the market. Finally, the government will use all available resources to introduce order on the labour market, root out work on black, which is one of the basic preconditions for increasing employment in Serbia. Serbia is in the second year of moderate economic recovery and ahead of a potentially new wave of crisis. The government has reacted and adopted the budget rebalancing before you this time and will allow increased salaries, pensions and social benefits to be paid in the legal amount and time. In addition, an increase in incentives aimed at growth in business activities has been proposed to enable employment to grow and to increase citizens' living standards. Given that this is a united debate, and with three other laws, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few sentences about each of them. Given that this isn't really about new laws, it's only about changes, so I'd like to comment on these changes. Amendments to the Property Tax Act, the most significant change is, above all, the creation of normative conditions for the 2012 property tax to be at the level of the 2011 liabilities. This practically means that opportunities are being created for citizens to not grow next year on the basis of property tax. The reason why we decided to do this is, above all, the fact that at a time when the law was proposed, it was then calculated with far higher growth rates, faster recovery. Given the announcement of a new crisis, we do not know how deep it will be and whether it will affect the standard of citizens, we suggest that the property tax is not increased next year. Also, these amendments to the law have also made certain precisions, which relate to the subject matter of taxation. Namely, it is exempt from taxing agricultural and forest land up to 10 acres, not just construction land. Secondly, when it comes to tax exemption, no land tax is paid under the facility. So far, it's only been released on building land under the building. When it comes to amendments to the Law on Public Debt, the essence of these amendments is certain precision, but more importantly, given the most recent solution that has been made in the area of decentralisation, which I now think is not so much about this law on decentralisation as the Law on Public Property, where local self-government now appears as the title of public property, then they can use this public property, of course, as some kind of colleleterals, so that they would be in charge and therefore it was necessary to amend the Law on Public Debt and to specify the possibility of borrowing the locals, of course including Vojvodina, but also to specify some kind of stricter control and monitoring of what is going on at the place. Therefore, this law introduces the possibility of borrowing the Republic of Serbia to obtain financial assets and the possibility of long-term borrowing of territorial autonomy units, broadcasting long-term securities of value to finance investment, development and priority programmes and projects, such as investment in capital investment and the acquisition of financial assets. This, let's say, aside from the material instruments that the locals got, is to get them a financial instrument. However, there is a need for local authorities to deliver instead of six months of reporting to the ministry responsible for financial affairs, a monthly debt report, and to better monitor their borrowing and realization of what they started, and that is now an additional change in the public debt law. Finally, the amendments to the Obligation Insurance Act in Transport, this is a relatively minor change, as it is only an extension of the work of the Guarantee Fund, which was due to start working on 11.10 this year. Since the conditions for starting work have not been met, it is proposed to postpone this period to 30.6.2012. However, it should be borne in mind that the extension of this deadline does not jeopardise any insurance rights, since by the start of work, so until that extended deadline, the start of the work of the Guarantee Fund, its tasks will be carried out by the Association of Security Guards of Serbia, as has been the case so far. Behold, honourable Messengers, this is a brief matter of what awaits us in the next few days. I call on you to come to the budget text through constructive discussion, debate and proposals, by amending these laws that are best for the citizens who expect us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61697	Thank you, Mr. President. Do the committees in charge want a word? The People's MP, Djuro Muchenski, wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61698	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Prime Minister, as rapporteur of the Health Committee, I would like to say that on the Committee on Health, we have constructively and in a very good atmosphere considered this Budget Rebalance proposal and that we have adopted it most of the votes. I can say that we have listened with due attention to the representatives of the RZZ, because there are certain indicators that have given this written programme that show a tendency to lower charge of the RZZZ budget and all that can in some way create problems in financing healthcare. As the main argument, that is, the main reason for the weaker charge is, the non-payment of health insurance contributions and that is something that, if not resolved, will lead to the collapse of the RZZ. What's important, I think we're all aware of that and the MPs who are active in local life know that certain businesses are just using this kind of economic situation, in some ways avoiding that obligation, and that there are certain kinds of pressures to pay off without the following contributions and taxes, and that in some way it's become a rule, which we find inadmissible. The position on the Committee is busy, that we will discuss this at one of the next sessions, but the common position was that tax discipline must be introduced and that in some ways we must put order into the state and that all these obligations are known, because what is due to this is a problem with continuing financing health care. What I'd like to say is, on the Committee itself, I gave one initiative that I want to pass on to all of you, and to the Prime Minister. I am aware that this initiative could not have been written in some way in the form of amendments, but in terms of thinking about the next budget. In fact, it is that we have certain segments of health care that practically do not have enough funding. We have a well-solved problem of funding HIV-related problems, i.e. AIDS, this problem, i.e. the prevention of that disease, is financed by international organisations, as a donation of 240 million dinars, and that part works pretty well. We have another problem, which is the problem of treating the consequences of tobacco smoke, cardiovascular disease and tumors that have consequences for our citizens. That part is financed by certain means, so-called. The tobacco dinar that is derived from the sale of tobacco products and from that fund is financed by the consequences that this disease of addiction leaves for our citizens. Unfortunately, we have a national programme against drug and alcohol abuse that is not adequately funded. It is foreseen in the health ministry's budget to be financed with only 3.3 million dinars, which is very little compared to the problem that exists. In fact, the consequences of drug and alcohol abuse are catastrophic, both for those who are directly losers or addicts of this disease and for families who are together with them to experience this drama. We feel that there is much more to be done on this issue and on the reputation of solving these other two problems, listening to initiatives, and I have often been in contact with patients who are drug addicts and alcohol addicts, from meetings and from talks with representatives of the clubs of treated alcoholics, who have launched one initiative, I have summed it up together and proposed to the Health Committee where the representatives of the Ministry have accepted it and I propose that both the Prime Minister and the Resord Ministry give their opinion. It is, in fact, that, in the example of tobacco smoke, we should single out the so-called jargon, alcoholic dinar, a dinar that will be separated from the sale of alcoholic beverages and which will be filled with a special budget fund related to alcohol abuse, and also from assets seized from persons convicted of organised crime, that this property will be transferred to this special budget fund, which will be solved by the consequences of drug abuse. I think it's a good social satisfaction, to show criminals that crime is not worth it, and that these funds are spent socially. It's my thinking that people on the Health Committee have accepted, and that's something that could be put into the budget in some way in coordination between the Ministry of Health, Justice and Finance next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61699	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61700	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, at the 34th session of the Education Committee, which was held yesterday, the Education Committee discussed budget rebalancing and did not support budget rebalance. In fact, of the 14 present members of the Committee, seven voted to accept budget rebalancing. My colleagues from the DSS will in principle give you a detailed understanding of the reasons why the DSS thinks this rebalancing should not be accepted, and I will repeat here a part of my discussion that I spoke on the Committee yesterday. In parliaments of serious European states, the 2012 budget is currently being debated very seriously by committees, and we are discussing budget rebalancing in half of October. I am deeply convinced that budget rebalancing makes sense for the government to come out with a rebalancing before the Assembly in June or until half of July, but going to parliament with budget rebalancing half of October basically means that the government is just passing on to us the bill that we should apply because most of the expenditure and revenue has already been made, the money has already been spent unauthorized, and now the Assembly needs to appoint it. You know, that reminds me a little bit like when a hanged son breaks in a pub, and then he comes to Dad and takes his check. That's what it looks like with this budget rebalance. So there's a lot to say why the rebalancing isn't right, but the basic objection is the disciplines, if we had discussed this in June, then it would make some sense to give the government suggestions on how better money to spend or how better money to make money. Now it's practically done. Of course, the 2012 budget will, as usual, be discussed in the last days of December, although, according to all the applicable rules, the 2012 budget should be here in the Assembly and it should be subject to serious debate on the parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61701	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61702	I think after you, Mr. Cvetkovic, we still have a right to this opportunity, to talk and to get back to reality. First, do you know what the basic problem of today's discussion is? It's really hard to figure out who you're talking to as Prime Minister. When such an important topic is discussed in parliament, such as the one we are talking about, budget rebalance or budget, then the whole society practically stops and listens to what the government is planning to do, because it directly depends on the lives of everyone in this country. Mr. Cvetkovic, it's hard to understand who you were talking to when you were talking to. First, you forgot to mention the small nearly 900m euros, which will remain for the black days, as you told us on the Finance Committee, as the government's discretionary right to use that money in situations where liquidity is threatened or there is a crisis, so the government needs to intervene. You didn't mention that. Have you spoken to employers, have you addressed the public sector, state administration employees, in the Republic of 25,000, with a place of 60, nearly 70, 470,000 people in the public sector, pensioners, people without work, Serbs in Kosovo, is Serbia a social case or has a vision of development that will positively affect the situation they are in down there? You said we got three weeks to study the budget. That's not true. We lost three weeks after three years because this budget, like all previous ones, was the subject of the flea market of the ruling coalition. At least I think you're personally responsible for this, but, Mr. Cvetkovic, after three years, I ask you when this country will sober up, regain consciousness, when will those who water it be ready to tell it the truth? On the subject of budget rebalances for 2011, nothing is resolved, but from the character of this budget and the way the rebalancing was carried out very clearly recognises all the weaknesses of this government and unfortunately does not break the continuity in a policy that directly threatens the future of this country and every man in it, regardless of its political orientation. Mr. Cvetkovic, you are the Prime Minister who raised his public debt from 33% to almost 45%, to 44%. This, Mr. Cvetkovic, means that the next government will not be able to do what your government did, the next government will not be able to borrow more than a percentage of GDP growth rate, this government will not be able to increase its deficit from four to four and a half, but also because of the pressure of this debt and high risk that monitors the new borrowing and unsustainability of such a policy of power to a maximum of 1% of GDP. That's why Mr. Cvetkovic's facts on the table. No economy without politics. This budget rebalance, as well as the economic picture of the country in which we live, is a direct consequence of political immaturity, the impotence and irresponsibility of those who lead this country. In 2008, we are confident that the crisis will bypass us, then that this crisis will be our chance. You're telling us now, I'm going to quote you, just your two messages about us making progress every day and growing moderately. Mr Cvetkovic, other parliamentary groups are in a bad position from ours, because we have always planted our backs in order not to bring down this ruling coalition in the jobs it has done to pin Serbia on that Europe. In 2008, we went to parliament with the Project agreement for the future, with a list of laws to be passed, economic measures to be taken, to push you into reforms, and here we are after three years, a few months from the elections, in a situation that is absolutely unspective, and we need to talk about it right now, in order for these facts to be respected, and society to change. Your average budget, as you called it, Mr. Cvetkovic, is spending the last money this country has, you know very well. The next budget and the next government's economic policy will have to be stabilised. This stabilisation policy condemns us to the average GDP growth in the next few years of a maximum of 3%. That's why we need to talk about facts. Why does industrial production fall, why does consumption drop to a little bit? Why does imports grow, but energy is not processed within them? What's going on with our exports? How does the government think he's running this country when it's led her to the very edge of the sink, in every sense, that picture? It is clear what is the essence of Serbia's economic problem. It is undeniable to implement reforms. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, have launched some very good initiatives. For example, you were trying to introduce some fiscal order and discipline. You've formed the Fiscal Council. Here, in June and July, we discussed a law that your government supported, which is the Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. amendments to that law, which you did the same thing with this budget rebalancing, put it on the flea market, and then the ruling coalition assured Serbia that local self-government would come up with funds that the government itself does not have in the Republic budget to finance its own needs, especially those capital, hospitals, schools, roads and here are the budget rebalances in which these local self-governments, those you gave money to in July, are now making an account for such a policy by finding that they are also taking away those funds that were planned for capital investments in the context of budget rebalancing. Isn't that right, Mr. Dinkich? Although you stated precisely in your amendment – all the local self-government and money they would receive, on the other hand you couldn't avoid the fact that there was no money. Eight billion is saved from capital investments. What drives the development of this country? In the recession where we are and where we were the only development, the state started with its interventions. Now it is said – there is no capital investment. Do you think of the consequences of such an attitude, when the ruling coalition threatens employers with sanctions because they do not pay contributions to their employees? In what circumstances do your employers do business? Who is responsible for the high degree of risk in which they are in debt, for the loss of the market on which they count, for the population and the demagogue they are exposed to through the increased accounts each month? We can't support that approach. That kind of approach is wrong at first. If we remember the budget debate a year ago, all this is happening now we have told you then, Mr. Cvetkovic, very clearly. We have pointed to the development of this society, the restructuring of public enterprises, the opening of new markets, the acceleration of privatisation, the definition of optimal public sector employees, the modernisation of administration, the establishment of the rule of law. Who is to blame that the business climate in Serbia has fallen, which Serbia has fallen on the list of countries by business climate for 12 seats? True, Serbia has a slightly larger inflow of foreign investment than, say, Montenegro, but it is only 15 times bigger than Montenegro and twice Croatia. This isn't even the Titanic we're in on deck one anymore. We think that a different order of moves is needed, that we must address every sector of this society. Mr. Cvetkovic, what can the financial sector conclude from what you said? The whole world is breaking down now whether to tax bank assets or not. You haven't spoken to the financial sector. A debate is being held in Serbia whether we need a fixed course or not. Not a word the government said about it. A debate is being held in Serbia on whether or not you have been given the need to cut mandatory reserves. You haven't said a word about it. There is a constant debate in Serbia on the necessity, the need for reform of the health care system. You have now heard some proposals from the Committee on Health and PIO Fund, and your Government has decided to postpone the discussion of the PIO Fund reform by 2013. Do you know what that means? This means that the effects of this reform will be seen not in 2013 and 2014, but in 2023, 2024 and 2025, as it takes 10 years to achieve positive results if it is one of the measures, such as raising the retirement age. Your government has compromised this country's European orientation. It is not realistic to expect that we will become members of the EU in this decade. How much is the interest rate? One percent is a billion and 500 million euros, so much is raising the cost of our economy. How much does playing with Kosovo cost Serbia? Where is Kosovo in this budget? The president of the state is talking about criminals who burn Jarinje, and we've been forced for days to listen to the tirads that measure the patriotic grains in our blood. It's not the '90s. I guess we learned something from all that. This is an account of Serbia for what was done three years ago. That's why we need to talk another way. We don't need this kind of budget rebalance. It's a good thing we respect the IMF. It's a good thing we didn't raise the level of our expenditures, but it's an important character of these expenditures, the character is crucial. He's not good. Giving up capital investment means leaving people out of work. How can we build anything normal in this country? How can we believe in a positive future if this country keeps looking at those on their knees instead of helping those who survived and stayed on their feet? Well, if they were on their feet and there were more on their feet, there'd be fewer on their knees. What's the pension today in Serbia? Who's responsible for the mess at the Pension Fund? Management retires, and then according to the deed contract, it starts working again, 25% of pensions are disability pensions, like we've been working in a minefield, we're precedentd in the world. More disability pensions than family pensions. Retirement Fund property, nobody's into it. Can we introduce that order, say, people, here we go? We've got 100 holes in the belt. It's got to be. Billions taken by Vojvodina. No one will benefit from that billion, but from the neglect of the Duke many would see benefits. Let's get back to some of your measures, Mr. Cvetkovic. If the growth of the social product has fallen, as you said, and what is not disputed, what is the Government planning to do to stop this trend, if we know that we need a 5% growth rate to start hiring people in Serbia, and that from that pro-social budget that you mentioned, we can only return to stabilization? We know years of stabilization from the '80s. We know what it means in real life. What do you mean, solve these problems? That's what we need to talk about. Not how we're going to redistribute what's practically gone. How are you going to raise a gross social product? How will export increase? What are we going to do about our foreign debt, Mr. Cvetkovic? Public debt is 44%, 45% is the limit. Now we're passing a law that allows municipalities to be in debt through the broadcasting of ammunition bonds. How can they be in charge if we get to the ceiling, to the critical point? And in a year's time, in just a year's time, the debt and interest rates will be 35% of the value of our exports. A country that has over 25% cannot survive, 15% of the pension fund's social product. Look at the references, we need to talk about it now. You are looking for support for what must be done in the country, not for what is needed to bring your ruling coalition together 126 MPs. It's too expensive. It's too expensive and it can't do that anymore. What about the economic development strategy of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic? You didn't mention her here. Is this rebalancing in accordance with that strategy or not, is this rebalancing required to correct that strategy or not? Tell us that. You're in charge of the international financial market for a billion dollars. Those who say that 7.25% is high interest, which is real but in another world, but not in this of ours, may not be surprised if we present that interest very quickly and consider it our success in relation to the real conditions in which we will find ourselves. It's a good thing the state's in charge of the financial market just doesn't have a plan on what to do with that money. It's too expensive to spend by putting it aside and waiting for a fire to break out, to put it out. What's going on with the vault records? With repro surgery? Is the fact that these projects are unsuccessful, talking about the climate in which our country is located? We can only sell short-term paper. Those who are sold on a longer term don't have their customers anymore. That's what it says about the state of the distant economy. Perhaps you should say so, so that when someone mentions a reduction in the mandatory reserve, you say that this is not the way Serbia can get out of the crisis, because we have halved the reserve rate in the last few years. It was over 40%, now it's 21%. That money doesn't go into business. That money just goes into the vault records and goes to the NBS. We can't have politics in isolation, and that's what's happening to us. How does the governor feel about budget rebalancing? That's what we need to hear. You're talking about social dialogue. You don't have the courage to make serious social economic advice of the government. You ignore a large union of employers who employ 500 thousand workers, and you sign contracts in every election campaign with those who can no longer represent themselves in a working relationship, because they retired. It's the government's social economic advice. What's happening now would have to go through the hands of members of that council. We have to fight to solve the unemployment problem. The problem cannot be unless the country is systemically redefined. For this reason, your rebalancing must make Serbia a country that is a certain European future. It has to be, otherwise it'll be worse than those unfortunate people at the barricades, because of this man from the Health Committee who says they don't have the money to finance their own health needs, because of the humiliated pensioners who can't even help put an end to the moon. Agriculture — What Is Agricultural Support? It had a crucial impact on export growth in the previous year. What's going on now? Agriculture problems are solved by the minister of police. I don't know if he was enlightened there in the temple where he was decorated by those church medals, so that's what's happening now, but where's our Minister of Agriculture? Where are you? You need to specifically turn around and then we can talk. What we've done here is tag along the old, no vision, no clear plan, no willingness to tell the truth. Unfortunately, Mr. Cvetkovic, your advisor did not make a mistake when he said seven days ago that the most responsible government in this country was the economic crisis the president advises. The only thing I don't understand is what's sitting in that government? Or does he think it's his job to give you bad advice? That's the fact he said. It might be funny somewhere else, but we wanted you to be successful in economic policy. We did everything to affirm the public interest in this country, to get Serbia out of the trenches it was in, and after three years of your government, we'll start biting ourselves, because we're so far from having a serious conversation, to focus on the goal, the means to achieve it. This country can't do it anymore, and that's the topic we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61703	The word has a People's Messenger. Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61704	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, unfortunately as a result of the slowdown in economic activity, the budget rebalance foresees less public revenue for 17 billion dinars, i.e. It's close to 2.5%. The expenditure and expenditure of the budget have been increased, on the other hand, by 5.2 billion dinars, and the structure of expenditure and expenditure is becoming increasingly unfavourable. In previous days, we could also hear that the deficit in the budget is about 142.8 billion dinars, as well as the fact that, significantly, by about 8 billion dinars, the capital expenditure will be reduced by this budget rebalance for 2011. That's about the data that was provided by the State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, above all. I always have a problem, Mr. Prime Minister, when we bring in the budget or when the Assembly discusses budget rebalancing because we have to focus on one provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we must remain exclusively on whether the republican government and parliament respect their constitutional obligations in relation to financing the powers of the AP Vojvodina. It's not good because we don't have time, we don't have space, we don't have the opportunity to express our views on the position of agriculture, education and some other actions in the draft budget or rebalancing. We always have to stay on this level. I think it would be a good idea to settle this dispute already, this question, and make it clear to everyone whose obligation it is. Mr. Prime Minister, you were an hour ago, perhaps a little more at the meeting of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, saying that it is uncontestable that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% of the republican budget and that 3/7 of these funds of the AP Vojvodina should be spent on financing capital expenditure on the territory of the province. It's undeniable and it's like that. You also said that the Constitution does not state that the obligation is exclusively for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia to provide those funds to the AP Vojvodina. That is correct, Mr Cvetkovic, that is not how it is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, however, we are still in a position that the Republic Assembly has not passed the law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not propose to the Assembly a law on the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina. The government has not otherwise proposed to secure the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina. And a year ago, I was talking about theoretically there are three possibilities to secure the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. One way is the one I spoke of earlier, the passing of a special law on the financing of the Vojvodina. Another way is to amend the Law on the Budgetary System, where the law contains the theoretical possibility for the province to obtain funds from other types of tax, not only these two types of tax from which it receives years back funds, which is a corporate tax and a certain percentage of the income tax of citizens. The third option would be to define by budgeting from year to year what funds the AP Vojvodina will have. The RS government has missed all these theoretical possibilities and therefore we are at every rebalance and each new budget in the position that we must focus on whether or not the Constitution is respected. We're questioning the constitutional court, which of course we're not. That is why we believe it is necessary to put an end to this issue and that it is finally necessary to agree on how the AP Vojvodina will be financed, how it will finance capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. As for the original budget that was passed at the end of December last year, we then said that the text was in accordance with the Constitution, because it was provided 7% and three weeks. We have expressed hope that this year there will be no budget rebalances, because budget rebalances always contain the danger that this situation will deteriorate at the expense of the AP Vojvodina. We were, of course, aware of the possibility that there would still be rebalancing during this year, since it is done almost every year. Now we're in fear again, I have to say, we've watched, we've gone over these suggestions, and we've seen if we're going to be able to support the rebalancing or not. You know, Mr. Cvetkovic, that we have always had a problem with this issue in recent years. So far, we've always managed to find a solution. In 2008. The solution was that transfers to local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina were included in these famous 7%. Next year, we agreed that Vojvodina would be 90% of the NIS sales price. Now there's another question -- is that how it's regulated, and is that how it was realized? In 2010, we were unable to support the budget, i.e. We could not support the 2010 budget because the text was anti-constitutional. I must also say that, given the fact that Vojvodina has almost no original income, I will tell you only one thing, that the province's taxes, for example, account for 0.005% of the AP Vojvodina budget. I spoke earlier about the fact that a certain percentage of these two types of taxes belong to Vojvodina, but that, of course, is not enough for the Constitution to be respected, so that the province could invest three weeks in capital expenditure on its territory. As for the budget for this year, which was brought in December last year, nine billion dinars were foreseen for the Capital Investment Fund on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Nine billion, which according to the still valid budget, and the republic and the province, the republic needs to identify the AP of Vojvodina. The Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. Now I'm going to be forced to announce one devastating piece of information, which we talked about in the past months, hoping this situation will change for the better. To this day of the nine billion, how much does the Republic of Serbia need to get to the AP Vojvodina for capital expenditures per current budget, out of the nine billion dinars so far, only one billion, 500 million dinars on March 2nd and 500 million dinars on June 6th of the current year. This means that by the end of the ninth month only one-nine of these amounts were allocated to the Republic, according to its current budget, to the AP Vojvodina. I think this data is really devastating and it's talking about the budget not being realized, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the Constitution is not being respected. We still have almost three months of this year and there is still a chance that the government is fulfilling its obligations, only the question is whether there is a political will for it and whether there is a possibility for it? We hope that political will exists, because otherwise this would not have been planned in this way and designed at the end of last year. If political will exists, I really don't understand why the AP Vojvodina is put into this situation. We have repeatedly said that the province, more specifically the construction operation on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, is on the verge of bankruptcy. This is because the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund cannot fulfil its obligations. In a different way, the Fund is unable to reconcile its obligations to contractors. This is not because the province authorities are irresponsible or because they are not up to the task to be carried out, but because Vojvodina has no or almost no original income, and the Republic does not fulfil its commitments under the budget for the current year. As far as debts are concerned, these debts amount to at least four billion dinars today, if we have to consider the fact that these debts from month to month should be paid off. On the other hand, there are construction firms on the territory of the AP Vojvodina that the Fund owes more than 300 million dinars to. I think that this data is truly devastating and simply leads to the impossible situation of those companies that want to help, which invest instead of the state their assets in certain capital investments, which take credit for their ability to carry out their obligations, and the Republic does not service, simply, their debts. We had a controversy with Mrs Dragutinovic, a former finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia just over a year ago, when she claimed the same thing, Mr. Prime Minister, which you were just claiming at a session of the Finance Committee. She practically said she was on Vojvodina to cope, simply the Republic is unable to signify those funds. It simply doesn't say anywhere in the Constitution that the Republic should transfer those funds, let the Duke get by. I think that at this point, until the law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina is passed, there are only three options: either the Republic will respect its obligations, or the AP Vojvodina will be in debt, which is allowed by this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, but I don't think the International Monetary Fund would be looked at kindly and, on the other hand, I don't think it's in the interest of the Republic of Serbia to be predominantly in debt and, on the third hand, there's a theoretical possibility that some new duties will be invented in Vojvodina. I don't think that's possible either, it's possible from a legal point of view, of course, but I don't think it would have been cellular, it wouldn't have been meaningful. That's why we think the only option is for the Republic to carry out its duties. I'll try to prove to you on a plastic case why the government is wrong when it says it's not the Republic's obligation to deal with these issues and that Vojvodina needs to be handled as well as possible. You know, I could say that for example. I can't make a party out of ground meat. It can be said that he is a guilty treatator if he can't make a party out of ground meat, but I think it would be a cynical position, that it would be a cynical sentence and that in such a way should not be treated according to the obligations defined by both the Constitution and the current budget of the Republic of Serbia, since there are no other options, because no law on the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina has yet been passed, there are simply no other options to fulfil these obligations. Finally, I would like to say, on this occasion, I would not like to engage in a debate on the facts of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government, we said several months ago, when the Assembly discussed this proposal, that this law is marketing, that it would put the government of the Republic of Serbia at risk of fulfilling its obligations to Vojvodina, I think it will be harder and harder to respect this constitutional provision, but I think that in a country that wants to define itself as a legal state, in a state that contains the rule of law, there is simply no other option than to respect the highest legal act. Finally, I would like to present to you the amendment that I spoke about very briefly and at the session of the Finance Committee. This amendment, Mr. Cvetkovic, is the same amendment that you proposed in 2007, when you were the finance minister for the first time. It was then provided for in Article 3(6). The 2007 budget law that the remaining amount of funds will be transferred to at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and until the draft decision on the AP Vojvodina budget for 2007, will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget. At the time, it was still questionable whether that provision was respected in terms of 7%. Fortunately, that's no longer a question. The question now is whether the second position of the Constitution is respected for three weeks. That is why we have proposed a solution to which, in the same way as it was regulated in 2007, the remaining amount of funds to finance the capital expenditures of the AP Vojvodina budget, and until the draft regional Assembly decision on the 2011 AP Vojvodina budget, will be transferred to the Vojvodina budget in three equal wars: 01 November, 15 November and 01 December 2011. Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm saying you don't need to take this as blackmail. We're not the ruling parliamentary group who said the other day that they wouldn't enter the O.R. today unless their amendment was accepted. It wasn't us. We gave the quorum today for the beginning of the session, we are constructive, we want to agree on the respect of the Constitution, we want to agree on this issue. That is why we expect the government's response to this amendment and we hope that, if this was not disputed to the government in December of last year, then there will be no now, that there will be obligations towards Vojvodina, and Vojvodina will be able to meet the commitments to the construction operation and that the SVM will ensure that this budget rebalance is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61705	The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61706	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister with fellow Members, honourable MPs, today we are talking about budget rebalancing for 2011. The bill of law is ahead of us. I think the reasons the prime minister presented regarding the budget rebalancing are acceptable. In our group, we have found that we respect these reasons and provide adequate support to the bill and with all suggestions and suggestions to correct some of the items proposed here. Our parliamentary group thinks that there are special reasons why this budget remains as a developmental and special attention is being paid, as the Prime Minister also said, to social dimensions and the social character of the socially responsible government and state. I would also say that in one part of the exposure that preceded my advance, I would disagree, and I'll say something about that later. The PUPS will in principle support the law. His amendments and suggestions will try to make him better. We appreciate the positive that before the debate in parliament, a debate was held in committees, the professional public and the government and that a certain degree of agreement was reached on this. We also think it is very good that the IMF has given support to budget rebalancing, and in this respect we highlight this very important role. When it comes to the draft budget rebalancing law, we think it's very important. On the one hand, it leaves the possibility of further economic development and, in particular, incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, and I also point out this in the area of agriculture. It should be mentioned that incentives related to the banking system are still encouraged and in this respect I support the amendment that the government subsequently referred to for consideration. What can concern us in our parliamentary group is the increase of the budget deficit from 120 to 142 billion dinars. We estimate that debt must not be allowed to continue, and in this respect, the budget deficit should continue to break. In any case, there are certain reserves to be sought further. We pointed out that on several occasions when it comes to public procurement. We think there is still room in this sector for certain savings, and we also insist on the consistent application of the Law on the streamlining of the public sector, the Law on the reduction of the number of employees and, in particular, related to the reduction and rationalisation of state and para-state bodies and institutions. In that regard, we think there's still room. It is important for us that the Budget Rebalancing Act, as the prime minister pointed out, does not change the attitude towards the social dimensions and functions of the state. She's at this point, by our judgment, needed more than she's ever been before. The proposal provides for an increase in expenditure for the provision and respect of the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance and the Social Protection Act. It's very important and acceptable for us. It is an obligation which is also established in the priorities of this government, as responsible government, and in this respect we support it. In particular, we insist that, in addition to economic and development measures, greater care should be devoted to employment problems, especially young people, educated and educated. Special attention must be paid to those who are the most vulnerable and who do not have conditions for a more decent and dignified life. With regard to the decision to give consent to the Fund's financial plans for pension-inhabited insurance, the Republic Health Insurance and the National Employment Service, we also have a positive opinion and we will support these projects. It's significant to point out here, at this point, when it comes to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act that it is consistently applied. In this regard, I would disagree with one of the previous debaters, if the chaos were in the pension-inhabited fund. That's not true, the law is applied, the three basic principles for which we have defined ourselves, the law has been passed. The Central Register Act and the Pension-Invalid Fund Office are also being settled. Personally, I don't think those grades could stand. Also, I don't think it's acceptable to assess when it's just coming out of context here – it's pushing for an increase in the retirement border, the age limit. In these terms and by the assessment we had recently, when the law was passed, the assessment was that it could not be accepted at this time. We're still standing at that point of view. When it comes to pension payments, they are regular, they are paid every 10th and 25th, except for today, one is moved, and we welcome it in general. We appreciate that pensions are harmonised in accordance with the Law, in line with the growth of public sector wages. I'll just remind you what happened this year. The lowest pensions and pensions of farmers in December 2010 increased by 1 and 5.2%, respectively, after all pensions in January of the month were also increased by 2%, so that according to the Law in April of the month of pensions would also be consistent with the growth of the plan and 5.5%, respectively. And it is now expected that according to legal regulations and pension salary growth they will also be in line in October of the month. It's acceptable for us, regardless of the comments we've heard here today that PUPS doesn't have a solution for those who can't end it eventually. We have defined ourselves, legal regulations are respected and in this respect we support. We point to the need to take additional measures by other parts of the state, primarily to think about municipalities, cities and provinces. Everyone must take care of their citizens and additional measures, primarily social character, that those who have low pensions, those who do not work, those who are socially at risk, who cannot afford that both the municipalities and the city and the provinces must take additional measures, such as the state administration, primarily the Ministry and the Government, to help those who cannot live more politely than their incomes, either social or pensions. We have very good examples such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Jagodina and some other municipalities and cities that pay special attention to these problems in this regard. At this point, a large number of citizens expect it and must not be dropped out of sight that it is a commitment both to local and other self-government. Therefore, the parliamentary group supports the proposal to provide additional funding in the Budget Rebalancing Act, as foreseen here, of 7.2 billion dinars for regular pension payments by the end of 2011, which is also in line with the law. What concerns me is that I would ask the Prime Minister to comment, there is no obligation to pay back the debt to the farmers. We think it would be very good if that obligation were realized, given the hint that was in progress this and last year, that according to the pensioners, according to whom the debt was not settled, it would be realized. It's a large number of pensioners, something over 200 grand. Also, we think in our parliamentary group that the serious problem with the huge debt of economic operators is according to the PIO Fund. That number is now enormous and it reaches a figure of 233 billion dinars. This problem must be addressed more seriously, and in this respect we support this proposal that the prime minister has put forward here to determine the commitment that existed at some point in time and earlier. I'd like to say more next. The PIO reform has begun. Some of the specifics that, since 2013, will apply since 2013. But reform means that this idea of reform is found to be achieved by 2021, and there is nothing disputed about it. Also, we think that disability pensions and that can be shown right now, I have precise indicators, it doesn't stand for this fact that a debater here was talking about, that there's nothing to do about getting disabled people into retirement, or disability pensions. There was a slight stagnation of the number of disabled pensioners, and in this respect a law was passed before the end of last year. Anyway, I have to say that we especially insist and ask that, and that's not the party thing that's said here, that PUPS can't help those who can't put together, as it's said, the end of the line. It is, above all, a state interest and we are introducing our policy and our programme on this, and we are asking others to act that way, in line with what are the promises of all the political parties and groups that are in parliament today. Finally, in principle and in particular, we will make a contribution to the debate on the law. In the voting day, we will support budget rebalances with decisions to support these three budgets. We also support the amendment proposal and the addition of these three laws, and in this respect, we will also give support and vote for them. I will use the rest of my time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61707	Fourteen minutes used since the time of the parliamentary group president. This concludes the morning part of our work. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 1800 hours today. I am now setting a break and we will continue our work at 15.00 hours, so that the right to speak, as a representative of the parliamentary group, will be held by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61708	We continue to work in the afternoon, and according to the Rules of Procedure, during a session where the presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups have the right to speak. National MP Zoran Kasalovic, the mandated SPS-JS parliamentary group, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61709	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2011 budget is rounding the policy and measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of the public balance of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the proposal for a rebalancing is, in its essence, a reflection of the current economic situation in which our country is located, faced with the real problems of our economy directly affecting the budget of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces, cities and municipalities, and it is certainly logical that the budget rebalancing must bring the level of public spending into line with the emerging situation, especially in the context of the uncertainty of economic recovery, particularly our most significant partners in the EU and the world. This proposal for budget rebalance, as well as any budget, can be criticised for several reasons and angles. The opposition has already done so and will. And we also, the SPS-JS Parliament Club, have two amendments that we have submitted and we want to influence this proposal to be something better. We would also have some other solutions to offer, however, I believe that we must be politically responsible people and start first of all from a realistic assessment of the situation at the moment, and it tells us that the fact that the fiscal framework has changed for both the state and other levels of government and that at this point it is agreed for us, which is very important, with the IMF, the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the IMF. Also, what I would say is crucial for our parliamentary club, which is why we think that this budget rebalance is acceptable, is that it is undoubtedly clear that through the proposal of this rebalance, fiscal rules are consistently respected and incorporated by the Budgetary System Act, above all about deficits, pay and pension coordination, public debt, which surely, when we have adopted these rules, provides us with more reliable planning of public spending, taking a more serious and socially sustainable policy, leading anticyclic fiscal policy. As long as these proposals come to this House are in line with the legal frameworks, i.e. foreseen fiscal rules, they will have the support of the SPS-JS parliamentary club. After all, as a result of such a legal provision of this kind of reaction to the Government in this rebalancing, we have for the first time had the opportunity to read and learn about the assessments and assessments of the risks of certain provisions of this rebalancing by the Fiscal Council, and we need to realize that in the good part it is very positive and that there are certain risks that we must certainly pay attention to and take care that they are not activated. The bill envisions reducing budget revenues from 726 to 707 billion dinars. The spending side almost remains unchanged, i.e. increases from around 847 to 850 billion, which shows in the account that the budget deficit is increasing from some 120 billion dinars to a total of 143 billion dinars. As far as budget revenues are concerned, the general assessment is that the reason for the decrease in budget revenues is primarily the dominant result of the slowdown in economic growth in the second half of the year. Estimates of decreases in the real growth of the gross social product from the planned 3% to 2%, which is the resulting characteristic of all countries, unfortunately, in Southeast Europe and the increased risk, too, of recovery of business activities during 2012, with which they can agree in principle. Besides, the exact data shows that. However, on the other hand, I would like to point out again and repeat - I, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary club, have repeatedly used the opportunity that when such proposals are on the agenda to show both our wish and our commitment that the country's permanent task should be to improve, establish and collect taxes in general, which means that once more significant support in the material, financial, organisational sense, every dinar invested in the tax administration would certainly return to the budget of increased income and I am sure that this fall in budget revenues would be significantly lower this time if the tax administration came to terms in one better way and the collection of tax determination reached one necessary and enviable level. I hope that some future date may have a certain tax reform, but that the tax administration certainly deserves this kind of support. On the other hand, budget expenditures, as I have said and repeatedly heard here, remain unchanged in nominal terms, i.e. they increase slightly by 3.2 billion dinars, but therefore significantly different plans are made for the modified structure and certain savings that are possible and that must be achieved in order to keep this budget one of its basic threads and its basic message. As a result, the parliamentary club can agree and we accept the proposal to increase the planned deficit from 4.1%) to 4.5% of gross social products because it is, above all, not due to increased public spending compared to budget expenditure. It is allowed under these conditions of fiscal rules, which is crucial for us, because there is a reduction and a reduction of the gross social product is planned from three to two percent and it goes towards avoiding further deterioration of economic opportunities. The structure of budgetary expenditures is changing, and we think it is very good and important that additional allocations for social assistance of 3.4 billion are planned in the framework of fiscal rules, above all. I think it is very important to mention that when we look at the functional structure of the budget, about 40% of the budget is allocated to social protection, which in these conditions in which our country is located is certainly good and represents a kind of concern for all of the most socially endangered. These funds are allocated for the protection of the fighting and disability, the payment of maternity benefits, parental and children's allowances and for all those who are socially at risk. Also, 7.2 billion dinars for regular pension payments are additionally set aside, resulting from the amended parameters for prescribed pension harmonisation with the prescribed fiscal rules. We believe that these funds are necessary and necessary to ensure regular pension payments and that such a single message to our oldest citizens should certainly be sent, that even in these difficult conditions, the state will manage to settle pensions regularly. The rest of us need a cut for salaries and jubilee awards. For us, it is also important that this rebalancing will provide the means for the implementation of the agreement with the unions of employees in the field of education that the government has concluded, and Minister Obradovic, together with union representatives, has been holding long negotiations in order to make them successful and these additional funds will ensure that jubilee awards are paid, as well as severance payments due to retirement. When it comes to other budget users in terms of salaries and jubilee rewards, they are heading towards the Ministry of Justice, the judicial authorities, the BIA, the MUP, where the funds are already partly spent on salaries. This time they're just returning to that appraisal, but I think it's important to say that the MUP, which is indeed headed by Minister Dacic, has enviable results and in a situation where members of the MUP, doing very responsible jobs, often put themselves at risk for their lives and health and therefore I also appeal and believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must find a way to significantly improve the material status of the MUP members. On the other hand, this rebalancing proposal is one way to affirm savings and, as I said, with less or more risks, it is our desire that what is foreseen by this budget rebalance is consistent and implemented because we believe that this is a necessary and good insight into the 2012 budget plan, which will not be easy at all, and on the other hand, we think that such a consistent approach is needed to maintain one trend in reducing the participation of public spending in GDP and is a good indicator that this year, by 1%, the reduced participation of public spending in GDP is about 44.8% and 45%, respectively. Significant savings with a certain risk, as reported by the fiscal council's report, are foreseen for the purchase of goods and services of 12 billion dinars, and certainly there is a need for significant adjustment, and a reduction of interest expenditure of around three billion dinars seems realistic and feasible. It is true that it is foreseen, in the discussions, a reduction in the capital expenditures of the Republic of 8.1 billion dinars. There are certain criteria on the basis of which this rationalisation has been carried out, above all in those capital investments where the intended appraisal will not be achieved or demonstrated by the end of the year and the full economic viability of these projects is established, which means that, if this criterion is consistently and fully respected, savings will be achieved but no greater damage will be achieved in the non-implementation of certain capital projects, because they themselves would not have been realised. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs therefore consider it necessary for the SPS-JS MPs to conclude that it is the obligation of the government of the Republic of Serbia to permanently coordinate the degree and possibility of funding current projects with the needs of the state and its citizens, regardless of the limited resources. In Serbia, the rule was also built in much more difficult conditions than today, and it was successful when there was one systematic approach, a personnel base and an operative. Serbia has today and we absolutely support the definition shown in this rebalancing that the degree of project realization, such as Corridor 10, of the building of the Zemun-Borca bridge, the bypasses around Belgrade, of continuing to build apartments at the site of the former "Stepa Stepanovic" barracks, lead to its maximum, because we believe this can represent a significant momentum in the faster recovery of our economy and the employability of our citizens. With this in mind, since municipalities and cities in the decentralisation process, and under the law on the financing of local self-government, about 8 billion dinars will additionally benefit. The Law on Public Property will become property owners, offering every new potential for development and environment. We believe it is very important that the sum of these funds is focused and spent on the realization of significant capital investments in these environments, not on current consumption. I would like to say to this occasion that the SPS and our coalition partners in all the areas where we participate in government, participate or decide, are obliged to spend these funds primarily on capital investments, something that will be stockpiling and future generations, and that will certainly be good for all citizens. Of course, such a single approach and way will also lead to a more general indicator of the participation of consumption, i.e. the participation of capital investments in the spending of the Republic of Serbia. It is good that the rebalancing is in line with the agreement of the Government and the IMF and, according to estimates, as well as the assessment of the experts, the expert public, the fiscal council, the public debt by the end of the year will remain below the legal limit of 45% of GDP and what the assessments say and that the restitution law will not endanger it, but, of course, in order for this to happen again, it will be necessary to always and in every place respect fiscal rules, which the provisions of this rebalance seem. Given the identified characteristics of this rebalancing proposal, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will in principle support this proposal for rebalance, certainly with the accompanying proposals for amendments and additions to the 2011 financial plans of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Institute of Health Insurance and the National Employment Service. Given that we are now in a position to consider three new legislative proposals concerning public debt, property tax and compulsory traffic insurance, I'll just say one thing at a time. As regards the law on changes and additions to the Law on property tax, we are always eligible for the provisions of all laws that apply to citizens, and this time this law goes to tax bonds, because it ensures that, above all, those bonds that do not keep books cannot establish a greater obligation in 2012 than they did in 2011. They are being released from delivering a new tax application by the end of the year. Here, there is one news, given that I was talking about the tax administration and its significance, these provisions are obliged by public notebooks to verify all those contracts on which they have certified the signatures of delivery and the tax administration, in addition to criminal measures, which will certainly contribute to the better notification of the Tax Administration and the reduction of tax evasion, in respect of contracts which are subject to the determination of the tax liability. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt I appreciate that the law that is in the spirit of existing legal solutions that contribute to creating greater opportunities for local autonomy and local authorities. This provides the possibility of obtaining additional funds by borrowing. It is important that this legal provision obliging those authorities, i.e. local self-government and local autonomy, not send reports more than six months, but within one month, which will certainly speed up better government control when it comes to borrowing these authorities. The mandatory insurance law only shifts deadlines when the guarantee fund enters and therefore all these three laws mentioned are in principle acceptable to the SAA and we want to make a contribution to this rebalancing and following the laws adopted in a better form by our active participation, when the debate is in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61710	Nineteen minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61711	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have finally come to the agenda of the budget rebalancing law. This law should have been significantly earlier, and it was not possible to reshuffle the government, shut down certain ministries, and there was no budget rebalancing and we were doing this long period without the Budget Law. How are you going to cover that, Mr. President, I don't know, because the ministries that you've divided or that have been shut down, there are some funds left, there are budget positions in many of the investments that have been planned. I remember that some roads were also planned, some infrastructure and here, now, in budget rebalancing, it all needs to be shut down, there are no funds and in agreement with the IMF, so Serbia has been reinvested and has to reduce investment. You remember well that in one previous government where we were together, the same thing happened. It was also abolished and you, Mr. President, personally invited me and said that you would give against the director of the roads criminal charges because the budget was broken and invoiced in the following year. It was also the government's decision to do so, because even now the works have been done largely for these investments, because it is the end of the construction season. Now the performers are in a difficult situation. How are they going to invoice work for which there's no money? As soon as they're invoiced, they have to pay the VAT. If it's the same as the previous government that made the decision, so it says - move there after New Year's, and then the director gets a criminal record and two years in prison because the fake paperwork turns out to be concreteized, asphalted, cut grass in January and February, and there was a minus 15, minus 20 outside. So it's all repeating what you've been preventing, suppressing, where criminal charges have occurred, here, it's what this government has done, it's what this government is going to do. How do you think you pay for the work done, if someone is at the end of the year, in October of the month, we are now making a decision to reduce investments by some large billions, and investment, now we have November and December, investments have already been made and made to performers, because no one will work in November and December on those investments. Therefore, that will be a problem. I repeat, it could not have been done with this kind of funding of certain ministries, to violate the Budget Law. I remember when the budget was adopted that it was said that the Belgrade-Cacchak highway would begin, so that it would be satisfied to move this through Vojvodina, etc. Nothing's been started, nothing's been done. Moreover, it is said that Pojate-Preljina, not one, four highways, the Macedonian border and everything else, the Gredile ravine, the tunnel, will all start working, Nis-Dimitrovgrad. And what happened today, at the end of the year? Nothing. There's no such thing as rebalancing. Here some items appear, just to cover this all that was done with the carriage, with the rope, and now the ruling majority has to cover it all and simply say that everything was fine and bless that it goes away. This happens at the end of the year, when it is simply impossible to give a blessing for something that happened throughout the year when the budget rebalance was to be adopted and when it was to be accepted. We now have extremely big problems in the country. You had to not fail the government to adopt these proposals of the region and to give some funds to municipalities there. What are you going to do now? The personal income tax should go to the municipality. Now what will municipalities that don't have that tax or where it's minimal and they're getting reduced transfers from which they lived, so something will cover Belgrade City by the end of the year? What will be there, God will know. Therefore, this way of working and such indifference now at the end of the year, it takes these municipalities to survive in the warm season, to heat schools, kindergartens, to take care of the people, to clean the streets, to throw away so, etc., have great costs. From what? Of course, you've been doing everything on your own in the government. You've adopted and made decisions outside this parliament, signed bonds there, done, won a billion. You brag about the media, everyone with it. Who authorized you to put in charge of future governments, to give them a commitment? The government has owed six billion to the Republic of Serbia. What are these obligations for some of the next governments? Mr. President, when you came as prime minister from the previous government, you inherited two billion and 300 million euros. You know, you were the finance minister, that it was charged "Mobtel" without being spent. It was just charged, and then it was the technical government and it wasn't being spent. The charged RK "Belgrade". The sale of VIPs, the third operator and all of it was about two billion and 300m euros, the dowry of this government that received in the budget. I've asked the question many times – how has it been spent? It is said to build these highways, to invest, work, etc. It was all spent in the campaign, you were the finance minister and responsible for the cash. Of course, the big investments that went to Vojvodina to get the electoral body. That's what you did. You got the votes. But what remains of Shumadi, Western Serbia, central Serbia? Did they get one highway, and you promised two? No, they're not. Not one foot of highway. And they accept loans to pay others, so that you buy the ruling majority and that the government survives. Now, in this rebalancing situation, you're about to buy the ruling majority. If you don't buy it, the government's going down. You have to find the means, if you think the government survives, otherwise there's no government anymore, there's no one to vote rebalancing. You have heard what you need to do, again the same group to buy another month of power and punish this obedient part of Serbia, which will again swallow it all, receive it a hundred times and receive nothing. Therefore, this rebalancing is not good and is not good at this moment and now. You knew there'd be trouble with the budget rebalance, so you pushed as long as you could to try to keep this government going as long as possible. Now, if you accept certain amendments and give certain funds, make new concessions to those you constantly make concessions to last another month, two or three, and punish all of Serbia that has nothing to invest, which has not received anything because workers are fired because empty promises have been made. Will one of you explain how you're going to say why you shut down the concession? I ask you, Mr. President, the concession was voted in this House and the concession was accepted, I defended it in parliament as minister, it was accepted and passed. You have annulled this House's parliamentary decision with some infrastructure council. Where is the president of the council who went out and said – what concession? We don't need a concession. We have our resources. We'll make four highways. He listed them all. Afterwards, he said there was no paperwork, no paperwork. That's not true. How could tenders be called for concessions without any papers? Did you know that the tender Nis – Dimitrovgrad was called for the same concession and passed parliament, but no one answered the tender because the road is non-profitable, there is not enough traffic. Did you know that the road to the Macedonian border is unprofitable? Serbia's most profitable is the Ibar highway. You did it, you'll pay for the Alpini damage. You said it was a bad performer. Now that they've built the Beška Bridge and you've opened it and you've all run there for the opening, he's a great performer. That's the same Alpina that was supposed to keep doing the concession. It's not true that no bank wanted to follow the concession. Of course, she didn't want it when the president came out and said – the concession won't work. Deutsche Bank, it was all over to follow the concession and it was supposed to start in a month. Now, you explain to Serbia why you shut down the highway and the Ibarian magistrates get killed every day? Technically there can't be traffic, I travel almost every day, and all MPs traveling the Ibar highway. You said it would be done on the highway. The president said it would be done on the highway to Chačka and you gave as far as Ljiga, to Mionica, and what was it? Nothing. There's no such thing as rebalancing. Therefore, many investments have been denied where they were necessary and carried out where they were not necessary, and therefore, for this government to survive. You 15 in this coalition have various partners and have always been dealings, it's an interesting government, there are always agreements and negotiations, votes, concessions, etc., to vote. Every vote cost this Serbia, and every vote and giving of those funds went from budget to outside the Budget Law. I've been visiting some cities these days. You know, to buy some new electoral body for the election, because the campaign has been going on and on, I've seen 30 blocks in one city. Now you force it and now it's a battle for the electoral body, for example, in Novi Pazar, for the electoral body in Loznica. There he doesn't wonder what it costs or how much it costs, and some cities where you don't have a position, you've completely canceled out, you've thrown out, and they're not rebalancing. All those investments that were supposed to be gone. So how will Serbia survive this winter? As it goes, we'll see. The red line is touched with the duties. I repeat, you have, plus, received two billion and 300 million that you have expended in the campaign for the last election. completely unintentional and out of control. You little pies can't say anything. He does what he wants, takes as much as he wants. What happened to the punk bridge, why wasn't it finished when the funds were cut off? What happened to a lot of investments? The Dukes were transferred because they were said to do so. Why are many jobs late? What happened to cleaning the canals in Vojvodina? The funds have been transferred. What happened to the Sava River waterway, which was forced by the EU to end it? Nothing. Nothing's been done. There's no fleeting there. Croatians are already doing a project. They connect the Danube and Sava, they complete their tour of Serbia, they work from Vukovar, and they connect Sava, and they completely throw us out of the game. Are you thinking of a fort that can carry, in the case of a large water stop, Apatine? She was in the project. It's been said that the money from the Mobtel sale will be set aside. Nothing. Just makeup, Mr. President. It's just makeup before the election. A circle of two is being arranged, the centre of Novi Sad is being arranged and made up into large conferences for journalists of various stories. I was in Sremska Mitrovica the other day. Gentlemen, don't do anything. He doesn't do anything there. What did you do in Srem? Is it the Duke's Nova Sad? You watch more and more different press conferences – it's all over. Where are the resources for the river streams that were supposed to be settled? It was said from the sale of "Mobtel", from the sale of department stores, from the sale of third operators, to whether it would end. Nothing's been done. You'll remember when the Danube, Tisa, and when the floods start to fall again, then you'll remember it all. Therefore, in this Serbia, there was no investment during the government's term of office, especially this year. Don't talk about the Aval Tower, it's a project that started in the previous government and was done a great deal. Don't talk about Beško and it's started in 2008. I know great, because I opened the papers when it started. You said you were going to finish it in 2009, so the paperwork was delayed. So these are all old projects. Gazela is an old project. You only killed that cornerstone for the Chinese bridge, which will bring together Zemun and Borch, and 30% of Belgrade has no sewers, Mr. President. Where are your apartments? Five thousand apartments you said you'd let it be done. There's nothing about it. Why isn't this over from the earthquake that started in the Myonical Community? It's not over. A series of projects have not been completed and we now have major problems in Serbia, because Serbia is simply now dead and awaiting elections. Why are you afraid? Call that election already. Don't, Mr. President, let these blackmails, Pera, Zika, Mika, this political option, they're looking for this, these. You're pounding your hand with a hundred, like the previous government, and say, "Gentleman, you've got a choice." Here's to the election, let's see how much it's worth. Not like this, torture, stretching and a simple waste of time. Therefore, please take this rebalancing, i.e. I'm warning the ruling majority, don't back this up, because this is covering something that's been done, borrowing, and there's been no positive effects. There isn't. Tell me, what are these investments, gentlemen? Show me, where have these investments been made? Don't talk about Vienna. I repeat, this investment began in the previous government. The funds were provided, the works were done, the open works, and you were the extras. Run over there to that restaurant, sit down, tubes, tour something, etc. We don't want that. Look what you've been doing. Here, Gazela, you've got this bridge on Ada, God help you. Where it's going to come out, what number, where it's going to come in and who's going to pay for it, nobody knows. You all say here - it's not our question, it's the city of Belgrade. Well, is the city of Belgrade in Serbia, gentlemen, or is it in another state? Therefore, please, you have no authority, Mr. President, in the city of Belgrade, doing whatever they want. You have no authority in Vojvodina, do what they want. You've found that you're killing on us down there, the Shumadins, the Moravs, West Serbia, South Serbia, you're killing on us... . (President: National MP, the time at your disposal has been used. )......................................................................................................... We are, here, in a difficult situation, precisely because the government was inconclusive and did not respect the Budget Law adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61712	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have before us this famous Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law. I have to agree with the previous speaker, that as soon as the government was reconstructed, when we changed the Government Act, it was necessary to do the budget. Now because of the IMF and so on. With a precautionary loan, we have a final budget rebalance, so that the MPs can get to know what it looks like, as much as this fiscal year. I don't think that I am the prime minister and the finance minister was entirely honest with the MPs when they discussed the bill on amendments and amendments to the Budget Law, and there was a certain effort to find at least the first table, which tells us a lot of things, in some other slightly altered form, and according to Dinkic's habit of trying to at least some of this to cover up, which is currently happening. It is said in an explanation that one of the reasons is that, according to the new legislation on the revenues of local self-government, we have a deficit on the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In that part, the prime minister was right. However, there is another deficit on the revenue side of the budget, which appears to be hiding. If you look at it, the revenue side of the budget is lower by about 20 billion dinars. When you look at the structure where the surplus and the deficit is achieved, you come to a situation where you wonder how far the state is thought to run like this? It's not just 20 billion, but there are certain indicators that tell us that if something is not seriously done within a shorter period, it's going to get worse and worse. President Vladeda cannot be a reason for the fall of the EU's GDP crisis. The crisis in the EU has been going on since 2008, deepened in the first half of 2010, and was expected to be this in 2011, until 2013-2014 and perhaps even longer. So that's the kind of explanation this government can't give to the MPs. What are the indicators that something seriously bad in our business, in that part that creates real revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget, we see already in revenue regarding value added tax. We can't charge local self-government or anyone else. These revenues are lower at the level of the Republic by about 15 billion dinars. Of which VAT in the country, and this is an extremely good indicator, is lower by about 13 billion dinars or about 13-14% on planned income. The funds from imports, VAT from imports is lower by about two billion. Now the question arises, as the Prime Minister says – that our imports are currently the smallest of 2000 years here. However, we cannot agree that the reasons for reducing imports are the good business policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather the poor business policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The reduction in imports, especially the country's income tax, shows us a drastic decline in living standards and purchasing power of the population. That's why your imports are smaller. Don't brag about it anymore. I agree there's something done about exports, but let's look at the structure of our exports. What are we exporting? We export agricultural products that can be considered raw materials. It doesn't have to be something very smart, and it doesn't have to be something very capable of achieving something like this, it just needs to be a good year, with a good weather forecast, and you're going to make one of these business results. Not to mention roadblocks, rave strikes, etc. We're talking about those traditional agricultural cultures our peasant grows the most. Also, if you look at the revenue side when it comes to excise duties, there is actually a good reason why, besides, in the first place, the price of crude oil falls compared to the dinar, compared to last year. The oil prices are still one of the largest in this part of Europe. The government is then trying through excise duties and VAT and customs duties on oil and oil derivatives to keep the budget liquid. His incompetence shows in this way. Perhaps the Prime Minister will say it is not his and it is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia to determine the prices of oil derivatives. In that part, I can agree in part. However, it is the government that is responsible for the monopoly on the oil and oil derivatives market and through this monopoly is maintained in one artificial way such a high price. When the government properly liberalises the imports of petroleum products, then we can only expect to embossed these derivatives on the market, and the monopoly is viewed through conditions that can only meet three or four companies dealing with the traffic of oil derivatives in the territory of the entire Republic. By determining the import contingents far, far greater than any company whose capacity is thousands or 2,000 tonnes of a derivative can accept. Through this artificial monopoly, we our goods, our businesses and our agriculture reduce the competitiveness of the market and make our citizens' living standards worse. I think if you want to do something serious, first of all, by preventing such a monopoly, to allow such a vulnerable economy to try to at least do something with itself, because you yourself are unable to do something for it. When it comes to the costs provided for in this budget, grants to the Republic Fund for PIO are justified by the need for an increase in inflation, which is of course the government's fault. I'm not saying that we shouldn't give pensioners, we should give them as much as possible, but it's also one indicator that this amount that's missing is far greater than 2% of the difference between the planned inflation and the inflation, which also tells us that either we have a larger number of unemployed persons, or a smaller number of employees, or that employers, because of the extremely difficult economic situation, are unable to invest funds in funds. This is also the government's problem, which was silenced when we listened to the discussion and the reasoning on budget rebalancing for 2011. I can say that two parts of the draft budget itself are quite embarrassing for this government. The government seems to have already submitted one amendment to the draft budget law last Thursday, and 15 billion dinars are envisioned in the draft law to improve the liquidity of the banking sector. Mr. Prime Minister, whoever put this in the budget should be shot out of this government, and I think it should even fit. The liquidity of the banking sector is shrinking for years, but not because the banking sector has reduced revenues on the basis of loans both to the state and to the citizens and to the economy, but because it is constantly coming from the state. The liquidity of the banking sector in September 2008 was about 20 billion dinars of activity, which in current account funds, in deposits with NBS, in government securities of value. During 2010, Mr. President, foreign banks made about 240 billion dinars out of the state, i.e. as many foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia. Foreign exchange reserves created by export, foreign exchange reserves created by our citizens who have acquired their pensions abroad. And you allowed that money to come out of the country in the time of the global economic crisis and the EU crisis. I agree that the state should have liberal capitalism, but not when the crises, even the EU's leading countries, are awake in their eyes to monitor what is happening on their system market, what is happening in their banking sector, so that any of the banks for profit do harm to the state and prevent it from being talked about in Switzerland too. We allowed simply seven or eight months of foreign exchange reserves to be reduced by two billion and 400 million euros and to reduce the liquidity of the banking sector by just as much, and now we need to give these same banks, to be in debt and to cover their liquidity with 15 billion dinars. You filed the amendment, so you filed another one. We're gonna have to take a good look at those amendments of yours and see what's really going on here. We had this year and the Foreign Exchange Act. That law, while you are the Prime Minister, also allowed the money to come out of the country. The reason is, you say, the World Trade Organization. Just to ask you when we enter the World Trade Organization, what are we going to trade with? What are we going to sell when it's all destroyed? When what is created here in this country doesn't come back through some new investment or some new income, but ends up on exotic islands: Seisheli, the Cayman Islands, etc., in order to meet the WTO requirement, I agree, but first let's make a healthy base in the economy, not that in a system full of corruption, in which there's almost no control, we open everything up and liberalize everything. When there was a story about the sale of Telecom, the Prime Minister told us that the state is not an employer and it can only have employees in organisations that exercise public authority in three places in the RS budget. You have the capitalization of the Fiat, you'll spend between 12 billion and 15 billion on the joint venture. I would like you, Mr. President, to tell us about this project that occurred while you were still Minister of Finance in the previous government, you are now at the end of this term, this project has not yet come to life, we have not yet seen the results, we have spent over two billion euros, to answer whether this hole is finally bottom or by momentum to save what can be saved? There is another member who is a little confused in the proposal, which is that in this year, public enterprises with funds can pay jubilee awards for 2008, 2009 and 2010, meaning retroactively and backwards. To me, Mr. President, it looks like Greek syndrome, one of those behaviors. It looks like they were getting premiums there if they were coming to work on time. They received premiums if the engineer kept their hands clean, the couriers got jobs if they delivered mail in time, and in this assembly the secretary received two million dinars for RIK because they answered the phone. I don't know what's going on in these government bodies and what's going on in public enterprises, and I'm sure it's a similar situation, a similar scenario. Here, the Administrative Board has decided to set a certain raise for employees in the Assembly for savings made by MPs. That's when it's said he can't, not give us that IMF, we won't get a loan. What is this? We can discuss Konstantinovic's decision, whether it's linear for all employees, etc., but it's another story. After the Prime Minister leaves, please refer the draft Budget Law to him about a precautionary loan. So, a loan to be used only if the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget is not expected, i.e. the functioning of the entire financial system in terms of tax and expenditure. The loan is worth a billion euros. A billion euros per current rate is about 101, 102 billion dinars. If we look at the budget, we will see that the government gentleman and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic spent 130m euros on this rebalancing loan from the precautionary point of view, and that our budget deficit is about 13 billion dinars in comparison with the basic Budget Act. And now only one more question is whether this 870m-euro remainder, or 88 billion dinars, Mr Cvetkovic will spend in the election campaign. This is just one small part of the reason we could explain in the last 20 minutes to the MPs and the Serbian public why the SNS would not support this budget of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61714	It was used 19 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the delegation of the Parliamentary Institute of the Republic of Slovakia and the Parliamentary Institute of the Republic and the Westminster Foundation for Democracy, which is currently following part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery with us: Lubomir Fajtak, Martin Korček, Katarina Kubishova and Jasminka Peruničić-Allen, welcome to the Republic of Serbia. We continue the work, MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know when the government sends a procedure to the Assembly and to the adoption of budget rebalancing and when the main argument to that same government is that it is in line with the IMF, then it is indeed another defeat for Serbia. What's in line with the IMF? The IMF has agreed that incomes are falling, expenditures are growing and all of this is financed from new borrowings, although it is possible that these new borrowings will provide us with the IMF. That's what our government agrees to. In a few days' time, you'll be in favour of all this. For the SRS, this budget rebalance is the defeat of fiscal policy, economy and all that should be the economic system of this country. This should be said openly to you who will support this and the public who is watching us today and who will watch us in the debate in particular. This is a policy that has paved the way for bankruptcy to the Republic of Serbia and if God doesn't give you one more chance to run fiscal policy, we will end up in bankruptcy. This should be made plain and clear to the citizens of Serbia and it is fortunate that we have had time to get acquainted with this rebalancing, as Mr Cvetkovic said earlier, and to find in it all the senselessness that he tried to present here in a beautiful and fairy tale way. For the SRS, this is a failure for many, many reasons, and we want today, and for you who will vote for this, and above all for the citizens of Serbia to tell and to say, Serbia can lead and have a different fiscal policy. Serbia can have higher incomes, Serbia can have structural quality and less expenditure, Serbia can have a smaller deficit and Serbia can stop borrowing without any control and no sense of purpose. Serbia can do this, they just need responsible political people to sit in decision-making institutions. You, who have a relationship with Serbia, the way you have, and have shown it in the last 10 years, have not even been able to handle a different rebalancing. I'm not going to talk in this sense, about the people who wrote it and put it together, I'm not going to talk about those who are in charge of the writing technique of the budget, but the political decisions expressed in this document that is before us today and that we are discussing are really at the border with pathology, with political pathology. Serbia has one obligation, it must be broken up and it must be interrupted. We are from the prime minister of this government, beware, from the prime minister of the government who proposes the laws we have adopted the decentralisation Act. Please, which you will support, convey to him that such a document, he, as Prime Minister of Government, has never signed and never sent to this assembly. There's no such thing. So then Mr. Cvetkovic told us that we are the investment leader, so Prime Minister Cvetkovic told us that we have a moderate economic recovery. As possible, there is a moderate economic recovery in Serbia and that you at the same time verify your votes with a fall in tax revenues. As the economy flourishes, everything grows, everything is good and colorful, and our incomes are falling. The VAT goes down, the income tax goes down, the customs goes down, the only thing we grow, excises grow. But your excise duties don't grow, gentlemen, because you're growing general consumption rather than because you vote to be bigger. Because your only stable source of income is excise. Let's go back to the document we're discussing today. What's the matter here? This is proof that you completely irresponsiblely planned the 2011 budget. That's what we told you in the 2011 budget process. You've now admitted, you know, when someone is projecting a budget at a certain position of appraisal, it can be crossed by 100,000, misjudged by a million, but how is it possible, say, in one position to make a loss of 150 million? How is it possible that at the beginning of the year DRI has 420, and now it has 270 million? How is that possible, is that a mistake? It's not a mistake, it's a political misunderstanding, at the beginning of the year now. How is it possible to reduce the expenditure by 50 million in individual positions relating to the minister's discretionary rights, here's the Ministry of Infrastructure, is that a failure in planning? Miss, but a very trendy failure at the beginning of the year, all of which the SRS indicated to you. We suggested at the beginning of the year that you reduce the budget deficit by 30 billion, 30 billion dinars by reducing the minister's discretionary rights and reducing some of the positions that you now see fit to reduce, because either you didn't spend the funds, or you didn't start those projects, they were waiting for certain political decisions to be promoted by some in the government. It couldn't have done that at the time, and now you could have informed us in the budget rebalancing that you would reduce the discretionary expenditures of ministers to 75 institutions that are financed from the budget. How is that possible now? This is proof that you deceived the public at the beginning of the year, that the budget did not have to be the way you adopted it, that you were able to accept the SRS proposal and the fiscal policy of this country at last to lead differently and more responsibly. In certain positions where you reduce discretionary expenditures, your reductions are now higher than we suggested. This points to the political plight of those who have been sending requests to the Ministry of Finance to approve budgets that have been approved by individual users. What fiscal responsibility are you talking about here? What's fiscal here? What principles are being respected here? I can't respect fiscal principles selectively, I can't be selective, so we'll respect fiscal principles just where to spend it, but when the state needs to earn and invest money in smart things, we won't respect fiscal principles. Now you will come to the Assembly to represent your increase in expenditure as if you were thinking well, respecting fiscal rules. Who are you kidding? What will be the average increase in pensions and salaries and social benefits? You think that's gonna work out for you this time too, the elections are, it's election night, so this time we're playing with citizens and the public, so for the same time, the consumer basket is going to grow by five thousand dinars, and pensions and wages are going to increase by only 200 or 300 dinars, and now you're big, now you're socially responsible government, you're taking care of our pensioners, you're taking care of the socially endangered, you're taking care of public sector employees? It doesn't increase public spending just like that, there are a bunch of other mechanisms you've had to use so far to increase general spending in the country, which means to raise the standard of living for our citizens. How can you respect fiscal rules when your budget deficit is now 4.8 and 4.5%, and according to your declared fiscal rights, it had to be 3.6%, at this point and smaller? Who are you kidding? Why is that? I really believe you're not just going to take political responsibility for all this, those who are responsible for this. The SRS promises you, if it is in a time frame, it will indeed be called upon by one member of this bill on the budgetary system where public sector managers are concerned. How come you don't respect that principle? How come some people don't call for responsibility? How come this principle of fiscal responsibility is not dear to you but only where you can increase your expenditures and fund them out of debt? You are the Government, and you are the majority of the congregation that has funded the current spending of this country with the money of our grandsons, and anyone who has sent such a law to the Assembly should be pictured. If he has no conscience, I don't know what it is to make him feel guilty about this country's finances. We would also like to ask you how is it possible in March to abolish the ministries that you are still leading to positions in the budget? Not only have you defined salaries, you have defined both discretionary expenditures and a bunch of other expenditures for ministries in this budget that no longer exist, which you have legally abolished. In that law you wrote that the workers, salaries, contributions, assets, rights and obligations of these ministries were taken over and you have now identified new funds for these ministries in this budget. We're the only state with two departments of commerce. It's possible for us. You're ultra-Europeans. Anything in Serbia is possible today. How can you boast of economic growth in a country where incomes fall? How is that possible? How is it possible that the state does not collect the revenue needed and planned? Five hundred billion dinars owe the state to Serbia on a variety of grounds of the 100 largest debtors in Serbia, including the first ten largest Serbian tycoons, those who sit with you on economic forums, owe 300 billion dinars and was estimated by the professional public that 300 billion dinars of their debt are remunerated. Gentlemen who will raise your hand for this, that's two deficits of this budget. You didn't have to charge everything this year, you could've made it half to zero. Isn't that right, Mr. Vlahovic? That's right, but there's no political will to do that because the laws are written to you by people who live on the coat of arms of the state and of the people. Three hundred billion dinars 10 and 100, respectively, and two thirds of that debt belongs to them 10. You know very well who these are. What, you don't have the mechanisms to charge for it, there's no institution, there isn't? They do not exist because they place people in them, their people who manipulate you, and we are all victims in Serbia today. The SRS has made it very clear what they want. Through our amendments, we ask you to define 10 billion dinars and to settle commitments from the Republic of Serbia's budget by the end of the year to domestic goods and services producers due to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The total debt of the general state is 110 billion. That's what someone was talking about today. Ten billion owes the real sector a republican budget. The funds in this budget exist and the SRS will ask you in the debate in particular to settle your commitments to the real sector by the end of this year. We were even correct politically and said that the act on the basis of which it would be proposed by the Government to establish the principles, but that consent to this act was given by the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that no one's interests could be dominant, and even if they were, the public would be assured to hear what's going on, would this mechanism that would definitely affect the reduction of indifference be misused? There is no better way to show for 10 years than once a good will and a proper attitude towards the real sector. Since you care about the public sector, who is left to the real sector? Who cares? You have no idea how much Icarbus workers look forward to this budget since we were with them last night and since they're being supported by their parents, this 200 or 300 dinar increase in their pensions is going to get these disreputed workers kicked out of work to secure a consumer basket in a month, which is 55,000. You're talking fairy tales here about moderate economic growth. Whose concern are the people of the real sector? Who's gonna take care of them? Here's a mechanism for you to really help and in some ways to ease the pressure of indifference to the Serbian economy, to those who suffer you, to those who finance your VAT for bills they never charge. Show good faith a little and towards them, not according to public agencies, according to public companies where your directors, your constituents, will make losses, make robberies, abuse public procurement, and then they, these same directors, will suggest that we turn the losses in the companies they have made into public debt. Imagine, please, that the losses of public enterprises now go to public debt? A brilliant idea and that is suggested by those who have damaged the public sector, robbed it and brought it to the branches to which it is, that of the 700 companies in the public sector, two operate positively. A genius to a genius. All this stuff you've suggested, you're funding exclusively out of debt. The debts aren't over this year either. You sold bonds at the beginning of the year, you sold bonds now, a billion dollars. In a few days, gentlemen dear, the procedure will be entered into by a law that will take over a billion dollars in debt from public enterprises, public institutions. Do you know what you wrote in your explanation? They're not capable of making money, making money and paying off their debts and loans. And you, instead of sanctioning them, know what you're doing? In this budget, you provide them with new guarantees and new borrowings. So, who's crazy here? What does this country look like in this environment? Is there any political responsibility? You are announcing, the prime minister announces the formation of a development bank. Why doesn't he tell the citizens how much money it takes to make it? Where did billions of dollars come from for a development bank? Not to mention a law that is also under discussion on amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act. After this, who will control the public debt in Serbia, when you give municipalities the opportunity to owe what they want? Public debt changes are the point of a very small and perfidious intention, which has begun to provide more money to local self-government. You gave them more money, you gave them property, now you give them a legal basis to borrow, and when it does, the only thing in that story is safe banks, because they provided for themselves funds, or investment funds that would buy them bonds, or give them loans. It is evidence that in a dirty intention to make money in such a way that local self-governments were not only involved by the people of one party. It's the government's political concept. Dear gentlemen, the SRS has no intention of supporting this. We are obliged to tell the citizens that you brought the state to the brink of over-indebtedness, you brought the state to the door of bankruptcy. Once again, we invite you to reconsider. If not, the Black is the fate of a fiscal Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61716	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, at first I would like to say that the budget rebalance, each budget, and this budget is actually a technical document and that it does not depart in much from the memorandum on economic and fiscal policy, which is adopted at the end of each fiscal year for the following year. In other words, there are no major changes to the budget adopted in this National Assembly last year. So, I would view budget rebalancing, first of all, as a technical document, which is essentially what it is, because it recognizes some facts and some changes in macroeconomic aggregates that have occurred since the time of budget planning for 2011. On the other hand, the budget rebalancing cannot be seen isolated from the memos on economic and fiscal policy, or the budget that we have adopted over the past three years, because only if we are looking at this continuity can we conclude what fiscal and economic policy of the Government we are talking about. In fact, if it is known that the government has joined fiscal consolidation since its formation, which has been mirrored by even temporary funding from, if I am not mistaken in June 2008, then by the restrictive budget already passed for 2008, by an even more restrictive budget and by continuing financial consolidation in 2009, 2010 and 2011, we can conclude that the budget rebalance actually follows that line and is part of that continuity of the financial consolidation of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. What exactly is this about? I will not repeat much, as Mr. Prime Minister is at the very beginning, and some MPs have also said that this is about amended macro-aggregates, primarily in the work concerning GDP growth projections. There has been a reduction in GDP projection to 2% as a result of the new wave of the global economic crisis. Serbia is not an isolated island. It represents a part of the European and world economy and it is quite logical that the problems that exist in the environment are passed on to our country as well. As a result of the decrease in GDP growth rate, revenue or public inflows are expected to be reduced on the basis of a value added tax of 14.5 billion. On the other hand, we had a recently adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, which differently redistributed the income tax of citizens, instead of 60-40% in favour of the central budget, we will have a much more generous financing from this tax instrument of local self-government, in the coming period of 80%. All in all, we find that public revenues are reduced by 19 billion dinars and 19 billion dinars do not represent this set of VAT revenue cuts and reduced tax interventions, as some increases are also planned in some other tax instruments. It has repeatedly been pointed out here in the debate that public expenditures remained completely unchanged, more precisely by less than 0.5%, by three billion they amount to 850 billion, but precisely because of the change in these macro-aggregations it was necessary to change the structure of public expenditure. Here I would point out the first, and besides continuity, the second key feature, which is the economic and fiscal policy of this government throughout its lifetime, and that is one high social responsibility. So because inflation was bigger than planned, which we cannot directly blame the government and its economic policy, we know very well that inflation is due to food price hikes, which is a characteristic not of our country, but of the whole environment, there has been a adjustment of salary growth and pensions rather than 2.9% to 5.5%. It is therefore necessary to restructure public expenditure in order to cover these expenditures of more than 12 billion dinars through savings in other individual positions. These other positions are reduced transfers by 1.7 billion, a position no one mentioned today, these are interest cuts. What does this tell us? The reduction in interest is due to the appreciation of dinars, meaning, better, or stronger domestic currency. That interest reduction is about 2.8 billion a year. The part also found a space to cover these new unplanned expenditures in part of the expenditure, i.e. the transfer to the PIO Fund. We're coming up with capital expenditure. This eight-billion-dollar figure seems to be very high, given that the government is parallel to the socially responsible budget and economic and fiscal policy is leading all the time an anticyclical policy, as it has had the misfortune to find itself in the midst of an unremembered global economic crisis and that it must pro-actively act on raising economic activity. She seems to be tall. However, if it is known that part of the income tax money is left to local self-government, it was quite logical to transfer a part of the capital expenditure as a responsibility of local self-government. If I'm not mistaken, it's those five or 5.5 billion dinars that have been transferred to local self-government. The rest of the eight billion was found in capital projects that remain at the central budget level in terms of their funding. However, what is important is not central capital projects at risk. In other words, the anticyclicality in the government's economic and fiscal policy continues to continue to apply in continuity, capital projects such as Corridor 10, the Zemun Bridge – Borca Bridge, the construction of apartments, etc., do not list them, continue to be financed fully from the budget in line with the pre-planned funds, and this funding will positively affect the overall economic activity, primarily the activity in construction, both low and high construction. On the other hand, I would like to say a few sentences about the deficit, respecting your time and respecting everything my fellow Members so far have spoken of and, of course, what Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, spoke of at the beginning, in his exposé. First and foremost, the deficit in every country, including ours, should be an instrument for realising economic policy. There were times when many said that the deficit should be zero and that it was the ultimate range. That's not true. The deficit must exist. The greater the deficit, of course, within the limits defined above all by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, there is more room for anticyclical action in the period when economic crisis results in economic lagging, i.e. a reduction in overall economic activity. This proposal increased from 4.1 to 4.5%. However, different levels of deficits need to be distinguished, and this was initially explained by Mr. Prime Minister. We have a deficit in narrow terms of words, a deficit in the central budget, and we have a deficit in the broad sense of words, a deficit in the central budget as well. If the central budget deficit is viewed in a broader sense, it is lower by nine billion, as savings are achieved in individual positions that are not covered, I am talking about the budget users' own revenues, in other words, the account in the vault will be more than nine billion that can certainly be used interveningly, if necessary, to cover the existing deficit, and you will see later that it is not necessary, since the deficit is already fully covered by real sources at this moment. This is precisely leading to a seemingly paradox, and essentially very easy to explain situation – that the general government deficit, when the AP budgets and budgets of the local self-government and the company of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" are now included, is lower than the central budget deficit is growing. This may be a little complicated to explain, but what was I going to say about this? Other areas for new savings have been found to ensure the realisation of such a budget, which has been defined by the budget's rebalance. So, these other spaces are, as I mentioned, a reduction in expenditure in that part of the balance sheet of budgetary users at the position of their own incomes. What's important is that the deficit coverage is fully secured from real sources and that it's secured right now. More importantly, at this point, the state of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, has fully secured the budget deficit and for the first half of next year. In other words, this government does not only care about the period, what many are accusing it of, from today to tomorrow, but also has this medium-term view, thinking about how the deficit for 2012 will be covered, and as I said, it is provided from real sources. These real resources don't endanger domestic liquidity. We are witnessing that everyone is talking about the liquidity of Serbia's economy being the biggest problem. I would dare to agree with many critics, however, the government has actually shown by broadcasting Eurobonds on the international market that one responsible government can refer precisely to its own economic environment. And I think that's where they achieve multiple positive effects. First, the internal liquidity isn't pumped. Of course, it would be much easier to borrow from domestic banks, perhaps more favourable conditions could be met in terms of price, not in terms of manuality, but this would directly affect overall economic liquidity, banks would work with the state rather than with the economy, which is their primary task. I consider it an extremely good and quality move made by the government. On the other hand, the emission of international bonds has shown the level of credibility of our country, and it is reflected in the fact that the interest in buying Eurobonds was twice the nominal value of the emissions, that more than 80 investors from more than 16 countries participated, and not only investment funds but other real investment funds. What do I mean? The Eurobonds show that the world and that it has great confidence in what the state of Serbia is doing, that is, in the economic and social policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. In the past few months, we have had the opportunity to host two Nobel laureates and one, perhaps the most famous at this time, a professor of economics in the United States. We had Robert Mandel who said he was amazed that Serbia was without consequence going through the global economic crisis. He's a Nobel laureate, gentlemen, and if you don't appreciate him, I respect him and appreciate him. We had before that Steve Henke, a famous professor at Jones Hopkins University, who also found that macroeconomic aggregates during the crisis were preserved, that the government had a smart economic policy that was primarily reflected in this anticyclicity in the part of fiscal policy and that we today have a very strong financial sector and relatively preserved real sector. There's something else I want to tell you. Of course, I'll use the time until the end, but right now, in this part, I want to tell you that the deficit that the state of Serbia has in the budget, I'm talking about the budget deficit, the smallest in relation to the deficits of all other countries in the environment, except for Romania, which has entered structural fiscal consolidation. If I'm not mistaken, today is the deficit in Greece 8. Croatia has a greater deficit than us, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Bulgaria, all countries in the environment, including Hungary. This also testifies to the fact that macroeconomic aggregates and macroeconomic stability have been preserved, thanks to one smart policy led by the Government of Serbia, which is a policy that has been reflected in high fiscal responsibility, a continuation of fiscal consolidation and a policy which, of course, had its anticyclical character with the idea of helping the domestic economy to overcome the difficult times in which we have been in the past two and three years and, of course, what awaits us in the coming period. I heard a lot of what-what from the MPs today, and I won't comment on it, it's none of my business. But often mentioning that it must have an impact on the central bank to do something, I am deeply concerned, because it means that we here who are representatives of political parties who are parliamentary parties actually do not respect the independence of the two institutions – the central bank institution which has a very clear task of preserving macroeconomic stability and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose task is to realise economic policy and, of course, fiscal policy. Some repo operations are mentioned for which, frankly, I have no idea what repo operations have to do with the Republic of Serbia's budget, because these repo operations are just being done by the central bank to pump up liquidity and reduce inflationary pressure. That's the point of repo surgery. What I'm trying to say is, that's a few public debt sentences. There are a lot of economic analysts, or call analysts, who are very dramaticly projecting the coming period, saying that the public debt has reached the upper limit and that some apocalyptic period is waiting for us in the coming period. Gentlemen, since relative data are the only data that are relevant, because we can't talk about an absolute level of public debt, I want to tell you that at this point public debt is exactly where it was in 2006. Public debt was around 46.47% in 2006 compared to the gross social product, and today the public debt is lower. Today is a public debt of 44%, that when Eurobond emissions are included, and with dinar appraisal probably lower at the moment, I don't have today's most recent results. I'm sure by the end of the year, public debt will be at 42%. Public debt has been going below 45% since 2007. This is the period for which this government is responsible. The period for which some other governments are responsible is characterized by different data. We have had since 2003, or since 2002, not to forget that previous government, when the write-off was made, or successful negotiations with the Paris and London Club, we had a reduction in the total public debt, which was about 70%. Later there was a decrease, but that reduction was 60%. It is not until Mr. Cvetkovic's arrival as finance minister, later for the prime minister, that there is a shooting, I'm not saying it's only his fault, but I'm saying that it matches nature when someone is responsible for such a thing, that there is a public debt collapse below 50%. True, it should not be forgotten, and I want to say, that the private debt, too, is very high, but it should also not be forgotten that this private debt was created by 2008. It did not take place in the mandate of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What happened in the mandate of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that thanks to a very successful initiative, together with the Central Bank, the so-called "Current Bank" has been achieved. The Vienna deal, where banks have committed to maintain exposure levels, the one that was found before 2008. So, what I'm saying is that the public debt story has been rarely popularized, often used for self-revelation and promotion, so-called. Analysts and that these apocalyptic stories are most often not true, fortunately. To recap what I was talking about. The budget rebalancing is a technical document and it follows a memorandum on economic and fiscal policy. For him, of course, MPs of the ZES Group will vote. It is a continuation of fiscal adjustment to a responsible government policy, in line with a defined memorandum on economic and fiscal policy. It is the result of a balance of social and development impact. You have seen, the social function is strengthened by restructuring expenditure, but not at the expense of key capital expenditures. It represents respect, strict compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act. I just have to say, it's also about planning ahead. What awaits us in the coming period is essentially structural fiscal adjustment. (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. One sentence, if I may just finish, Madam Chairman, if fellow MPs do not get angry. Thank you. So, what I'm saying is, in the coming period, there is certainly a fundamental structural fiscal adjustment, and it would be good if we here in parliament had a consensus on this necessary step, which would indeed ensure the lasting self-sustainable stability of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61718	The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61719	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Cvetkovic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, budget rebalances and budgets of each government, including ours, is far from being a technical document, which is the essential and most important document to be brought every year. The budget should define the government's policy and define what the government is doing, because words are words, promises are promises, and only when it turns into a budget, revenue and expenditure, can we see what a real picture is. Your opening statement, Mr. Cvetkovic, was very inspiring. Everything's going according to plan, there's no problem, we're expected to grow, we're expected to progress. Obviously, we're not expected to take any risks. Therefore, Serbian citizens, life is not what you see on the street every day, in fact, everything is much better than you see. That reminds us very much of what you told us a little less than a year ago, when the 2011 budget was adopted. Then you said that the budget is a reflection of the economic power, that it is real, that it is one of the pillars of the country's economic policy, that it is stable, that in 2011, it is a year of chance and years of realization of the new economic model of development. If the budget, the one that was then adopted and this one is now, the pillar of our country and all that we have, then and how we have reason to worry and we have reason to fear. The budget expects a million and 700,000 pensioners, expects 750 thousand unemployed, expects 550,000 public service employees. This budget depends on the life of all Serbian citizens, directly and indirectly. Citizens don't expect empty words from us, they expect to hear if problems exist. They chose MPs, MPs chose the government, those who voted for it, to get a solution to the problems, to hear what was real, what was waiting for us. No one can benefit from the distorted image and from closing their eyes. You've left us three weeks to analyze the budget, that's correct, but you haven't given us any data that might allow us to analyze the budget. The 2010 budget looked like this. Rebalance is a few times thinner. Of course all those items are the same, the reasons are missing. Unlike you, I think the budget you've proposed has three characteristics, completely different than your three. The first is that the budget, i.e. the rebalancing, proves that the government has no policy whatsoever. Another feature is that this rebalancing represents a complete closing of the eyes to reality. The third characteristic is to continue unreasonable spending far beyond possibility. That's three characteristics of this budget. Rebalance comes to him as a passing time in a race, you run a race, you plan a time when you reach your goal, and the rebalancing represents a passing time. Here you can see what your projections were and how your plans were. As far as our rebalancing is concerned, there is no analysis whatsoever and it is clear that there is a new growth model missing and that the plans were completely unrealistic. When we look at the reduction in growth projections this year from 3% to 2%, 1% is not much, but from 3% to 2%, you'll agree, that's 1/3 of the decrease in growth, as is the reduction in the projection for 2012. When we look at countries in the environment, including EU members, which are Hungary, Croatia, Romania, Croatia is not a member, but Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, including Croatia, the countries in the environment, Albania, according to the Fiscal Council report, our projections went down the most. Does that tell you anything? Obviously, our projections are the worst and it's obvious that our predictions are the furthest from reality. If there is an economic crisis, it affects all countries, including ours. But how come all other governments, other than our own, had far more realistic assessments? How could everyone predict that there were problems besides our government? You don't even admit there are problems today. The deficit rose from 4.1% to 4.5%. It can be commented in different ways. The predecessors commented on it, each in their own way. The fact is that incomes are lower than expected, and expenditures are slightly higher. The reason for the increase in deficits is that this will affect the increase in economic activity and will affect the increase in economic activity and will affect the non-decrease of economic activity. Why is there no analysis in the bill to confirm this? It can be that way, and it doesn't have to be that way. You proved in these three and a half years that none of your judgments were as you told us. None. All the estimates were up. You always came to us and told us about how everything would be ideal, how no crisis would hit us, and we were getting worse and worse every day. That proves your evaluations are completely wrong. If we're going to help the economy, if we're going to help economic activity, then why does the budget reduce capital expenditure the most? I guess that's what helps the economy, huh? How else can we help the economy if these investments don't go into business? Practically all items in the budget have been reduced. The VAT income is drastically reduced. Income from the tax, revenue from the contribution has also been reduced. It's just that the store is a little bit 15 percent smaller than last year. It says enough how much the standard has dropped in a year and how much purchasing power has fallen, if the revenues from the retail trade have fallen a little. Of course, there's an increase in uncharging claims, because no one can repay the loans anymore. It's a reality. The number of employees has been reduced in the last year alone, according to official government data, by 55,000. It's 55,000 new people who don't work in Serbia. That's the data we need to worry about each and every one of us. It's a long way from no problem. When that fact is not accepted, if the solutions are left behind, then we can expect it to be worse than it is today. The number of pensioners in Serbia is growing at a rate of 1-1.5% annually. That trend will continue. The greatest success of this rebalancing, it says also in the Fiscal Council Report and in the budget, decreased the mass of pensions. We have chosen an excellent model that will reduce pensions from year to year and will eventually fall below any economically justified level and that is success. What kind of success is that? Now we see why it was deleted in the law of a provision that pensions should not be less than 60% of the salary. Because today is less than 60% of the salary, with a tendency to further decrease. When we refuse inflation, how much do pensions increase? When we refuse inflation, which eats everything, including pension growth, pensions will actually rise by 1% this year. You have to admit, a drastic increase. Of course there's only two and a half months left by the end of the year. We're now discussing rebalancing, and in 15 days, we need a budget that, of course, won't arrive this time of year. What can we expect by the end of the year? The VAT revenues are also overrated in this rebalancing. They'll be smaller than they exist. Excise income is overrated. It was seen in June and July that excise incomes fall on both fuel and all other excise products. It's such a product that by increasing the price you can't get an increase in income that goes proportionally. It's estimated to be at least five billion less than you estimate. You've made savings that you want to solve. It just shows what a lack of politics is. Ad hoc savings won't yield any results. At an item that can't be saved, which is capital investment, 8 billion dinars are saved. It's called savings. The local self-government, which, under the Law on the financing of local self-government, received funds, was again damaged by two and a half billion of what you planned a year ago. The Budget Act can't change other laws. Then why do we need other laws? Let's get the Assembly together once a year, that's the biggest savings for the state, adopt only the budget law, that law changes all the necessary laws, and then we don't need any other law besides the budget. How can the Budget Law change the Law on the financing of local self-government, and then a member of the law proposed by your coalition partner and not a second member of the law that stands in the law, and now as a local self-government gets, and in fact loses? If we hadn't changed the Law on the financing of local self-government, only if we had applied 1.7% of GDP, local self-government would have more resources than it gets by this law. On the other hand, you know that for the government's mandate alone, local self-government is damaged by 55 billion, except for those privileged to receive money from the budget reserve, they don't pay for electricity, water, all other taxes. Now that they have increased funds, how many of these funds transferred to local self-government will go to capital investments? Very little, so capital investments, which are no longer financed from the republican level, will very little be financed from the local level, because local self-government has no means to finance it. Own income has been reduced by nine billion. It's like a great thing. Not that it's not great, it's an extremely bad thing. Why is it bad? This only speaks of two things: that all budgetary users, who have the right to their own income, obviously planned and gave major burdens to businesses, that these revenues are unrealistically high and that they have extra resources. That could be one interpretation. Another interpretation is that if you take away those nine billion, they won't be able to do the job they're supposed to do under the law. How can they if they don't have the money? So it's either one thing or another, but in any case it shows there's no politics. If they got a job under some law, they'd have to do it. This task requires certain funds, these funds must be in the budget. Your government tried to collect its own income in 2009. She was then the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, but the budget is not the finance minister's budget but the entire government. You remember how the project went through taking its own revenues to budget users. There's Mrs Stojljkovic, she knows very well how the project went unfamously. That's how it's gonna go now. As for these things with the savings plan, ad hoc overnight, you decide it's going to be savings and you call it an effective policy. It's not an effective policy, it's a lack of any policy. In the budget they start to exist agencies previously treated as self-financing agencies, e.g. Privatisation agency. The privatisation agency is no longer able to finance from privatisation revenues and the Privatisation Agency is now part of the budget. Three hundred million dinars go for salaries at the Privatisation Agency. What one of your government's greatest successes, it's a wake-up agency, it's hundreds of agencies and directors. They are not in the budget, because everyone has the opportunity to dictate through public authority the burdens of businesses and citizens. It is the only employment that exists in Serbia. As long as it takes, we'll see. Your government, apart from the agencies, is marked by borrowing. According to official data from your ministry, since you and the finance minister, our debt at the moment you took over the government was about 8.8 billion dinars. Today he's five billion dollars bigger. In three years and four months -- five billion just being treated like a debt, which you want to admit is a debt. There aren't three billion that we took from the IMF, there's not a billion bonds here, there's no new loans we hear you're negotiating every day, there's not a set of loans we're going to discuss tomorrow. The basic question is, if this borrowing is the result of the devastating economic situation that we are in, then the basic question is what will the next government do, which no longer has the ability to be in debt and which problems will you leave at every turn? It was only this year that Serbia needed to keep its head above water, so that not all of us would drown together as a state, 550 billion different loans, to be head over water. Of course it's not a complete debt, but it was necessary to be in charge of various markets, collecting money wherever we got to, to survive. That's why banks don't want to invest in the economy. Why would they invest in the economy if they could invest in the state? Only the cost of interest this year was 42 billion. What do we do when other expenses arrive? You're happy to know that you sold Euro bonds. Anyone in your place would be looking forward to it. If you're in charge, you plan to spend that money, and someone's gonna pay them back in 10 years, then it's probably the dream of every government president running a government like yours. Let me remind you, when America broadcasts bonds for 10 years, they pay 2% interest. When Serbia broadcasts bonds, it pays 7.5%. It's a reward for fear when you invest in Serbia. All investors know that. That's what everyone's thinking. What's that money going to be invested in, and what can make a 7.5% growth at the annual level? That's the topic we need to talk about, that's the topic that's an integral part of the budget. Whether someone is satisfied or not, it's his private business. What happens when you sell those foreign exchanges on the domestic market? What's going to happen to that mass of dinars? What problems will the NBS have with this pressure on inflation? Serbia and this parliament approved another 270 billion dinars of various loans that cannot be withdrawn because there are no projects. There are 800 million dollars, about 80 billion Russian loans, there are some Chinese loans, there are loans on very favourable terms. All you pulled was budget loans, everything else stands. How do we help the economy if we can't withdraw loans with projects if we reduce capital investments? You've completely stopped the reforms. Reforms are not measured by the number of laws. We have a great example, but this is an example of Greece. Greece has been an EU member for several decades. It passed thousands of laws, but Greece today looks much more like itself than 30 years ago, than it looks like any EU country. As a result of all this, Greece has lost its sovereignty, its economic sovereignty, its good work. And that is proof that reforms are not only measured by the number of laws, but measured by the number of good laws and by the number of laws that apply. The deficit exists in all countries, but the deficit is measured so that for years when the debt goes well, in years when it goes badly, debts can be made. Of course, to measure several times what each dinar will be invested for and there is a good borrowing. Any debt to infrastructure, to projects that will help the economy develop good borrowing tomorrow. Any debt that goes into consumption is bad borrowing. Apparently, our borrowings are bad borrowings. Apparently, the public debt grew drastically during your government. What's worrying, it can be measured by percentages. Of course, every country in Europe and the world is its own in its own way and what's little for someone else is a lot. What concerns is that there is no guarantee that there will be no need for borrowing in the following year, neither in 2013 nor in 2014. She's talking about fiscal responsibility, these are stories for someone who doesn't look at the documents you're delivering because what you're saying, it doesn't write very often, it sounds very nice, but it doesn't say in the documents. You couldn't wait to knock down the growth rate so you could increase the deficit, and what's going to happen in 2012, and what's going to happen in 2013? Let's ask someone from Ireland, someone from Iceland, someone from Greece what they think about it, let's ask them what they think about the deficit and the borrowing? Let's ask today, because all the things that lived well for a few years or a few years back, we'll be back in the years to come. Each of us can spend our money rationally and irrationally, but the government has an obligation to take care of every dinar rationally. What's the only unknown to me, at the end of this debate, since your government has remained for a few months until the end, everything else is familiar, I can't just assess how much longer you'll be in charge of us and I can't just estimate how many people your government has left without a job and go out on the street. It's just two things I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61720	It was used 19 minutes from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. In that case, I'd like to inform you that they're in agreement... The Prime Minister wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here at the end of this part of the debate I would like to take my word and make a few comments about the debate that has been so far. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this part of the debate and how I would like to thank those who supported the government and give positive reviews of the document that is here and also those who have given critical assessments. Of course, I don't want to get into controversy with each individual, but I think it's necessary to give certain opinions in some summary form, and especially information about issues that were present, and perhaps some misunderstandings. Without some special systematicization, and according to the discussion, about my comments are next. First, there was a story about the RZZO, meaning the difficulties he now has, and information has emerged that the new RZZO budget has now led him into a situation that has not had enough resources. I have to say, that's not true, so the new budget or budget rebalance hasn't changed the position of the RZO in any way. The truth is, however, that those same reasons that led to the need to come, to rebalance the budget, which is the fall in revenue in the budget, also had an appropriate effect on the RWD. So, just as our incomes fell from pension and social security contributions, so the RZZO also fell from health insurance income and therefore the RZZO found itself in certain difficulties. So the difficulties aren't them, they actually exist, we're aware, we're going to go into the debate to try to solve them but there's no functional link between these difficulties and the budget rebalances that are here. During my exposé, I noted that we would consider and introduce a system of mandatory payment of contributions, not only net wages, which will have a direct positive effect on the RZZO, but we are also ready to open the debate for all other issues and opportunities to help them. Second, regarding the Vojvodina and the debate that it was. I also want to say that, like the RZO, the draft budget rebalance has absolutely not changed the position of Vojvodina, nor its rights in relation to those that existed in the current budget, so before the rebalancing. Certain savings found in individual positions did not refer to positions which are tangling transfers or other funds intended for Vojvodina, so that overall there was no change in the situation. We are prepared to open the talks, to see that amendment that has been submitted, to see what its essence is, but what is important and the fact that it is necessary to understand, which is that the position of Vojvodina is absolutely not changed by this budget. The issue of agricultural pensioners was also raised, and the budget did not intend to pay them for the last war, the lagging pensions that were lagging behind from the previous period. I have to say, I don't remember who said it, that he didn't get a good look at all the parts of the budget, so now I officially tell you that he did, there's a point she's not in expenditure, of course she's in paying off earlier debts, it's kind of a public debt whose payment he's going to pay off. So, the part of the public debt is scheduled to be paid and, within the next two or three months, practically by the end of this year, our obligation will be settled and all agricultural pensioners and the debt to agricultural pensioners will be settled. There have been several MPs talking about a reduction in investment and that this reduction in investment rather than helping to help the economy, etc. I also have to say that it's not true on its basis. Namely, it's about the next one. If the budget is viewed as a whole, I said it at the outset, its expenditure remained in the woods the same as the expenditures of the existing budget. The difference is minor. The main reason for the increase in deficits is not the increase in expenditure but the reduction, the expected reduction in revenue for the reasons I explained. Now when the expenditures are looked at and the need to strengthen the social component, given the legal rules, of course there has been a reduction in individual positions, and therefore capital investments have decreased there should be taken into account the way in which they have been reduced, principles and the way in which reductions have occurred and the effects of this reduction have also been achieved. First of all, we looked at each individual item and determined that in a period, let's say seven eight months when we were doing the budget and watching what the degree of realization was. To our surprise, we found that in a large number of items that have the character of capital investments, the degree of realisation is extremely low, and even below 10%. So, from the planned 100 dinars you spent five in eight months. In such situations it was logical to sit down and make a plan again and see why you planned 100 if in eight months you couldn't spend more than five or six. During this planning, again, for each individual item and at different levels we have come to the conclusion that in some places planning has been done so that the over-optimally envisaged rate of payment in the course of this calendar year. In the good part, it refers to certain loans. So it's not about the liquidity of the budget and the financing, it's about the simple question of whether or not we're going to withdraw from those credit lines by December. On this basis, a re-evaluation was carried out and resulted in a reduction in capital expenditure. In other words, simply to be understood, the reduction in the capital part of the budget will in no case slow down the work envisaged to be carried out but will normally be carried out as planned. It was a matter of concession, why it wasn't in the budget, a bad performer, etc. I would say very briefly that the concession is not in the budget, of course, because it is in arbitration. I don't want to say anything, given that it's one process that's under way. What I can say is that here is a question of the quality of the performer with the quality of the investor. If someone's based on the concession, he's practically an investor because based on the concession, he gets the right to repair and use the subject matter of the concession, while when it comes to doing the work, it's just what the slave-money relationship is, you pay him, he finishes your job, and that's it. This is much more complex. I can only say, for the sake of illustration, that after reviewing the documentation, the northern part that we have completed in the meantime was actually built for a significantly smaller amount of funds compared to those proposed under that concession. I don't want to manipulate numbers, especially because of a process that's under way that I hope will be completed, of course, positively by the state. The issue of rebalancing and the proposal that it should have been done in March after the government's reconstruction, etc., I think that this question has been raised as a fruit of ignorance of regulations and misunderstanding of the way it is done. When it comes to regulations, the regulations say that in the event of a change in budget users, by bringing some of them together or apart, it is not necessary to go to rebalancing but for those users who disappear to transfer funds to the current budget reserve, and then from the current budget reserve they return to the new user who was created after the merger of the two users. That's what the law says, there are members, and that's what this government has done. So unless there's a breakthrough in the total amount of budget, and there's no breakthrough after the government's reconstruction, then there's no need to go to rebalancing. It's completely wrong to think that any legal offense has been committed. On the other hand, we can speculate like this, and the question arises that then there was a rebalancing of whether another rebalancing would be needed. My answer is – absolutely, yes, since that first rebalancing would be a rebalance with so-called. With a zero sum, and we here have a rebalancing resulting from those two circumstances that I was talking about at the beginning, which are synthetically affecting income cuts. So our rebalancing is due to reduced revenue due to certain rules that have been passed due to a new GDP growth assessment. When it comes to estimates and why we had an estimate of three, so it's two, so it's not big, so it's relatively large, etc., I have to say that, since this is about an estimate of income that, conditionally speaking, is some exon size that the state only collects, of course if these revenues are bigger than the state will not say thank you, don't pay taxes and contributions anymore. On the contrary, if this assessment turns out to be too conservative, it will only result in a reduction in the planned deficit compared to the one that was, and no increase in costs or expenditure. As an illustration, I can tell you that it happened in the last calendar year, when our deficit was planned with 4.8%, and in real life we had between 4.5 and 4.6. I'm really convinced that this 4.5 in real life is going to be smaller than this 4.5. Therefore, when it comes to whether our plans are good or bad, it can be concluded that they are conservative and that we are actually doing more and better than we are giving forecasts which, after all, some of the principles of caution and also shows our relationship and cooperation with the IMF, when we have done all that we agreed on and beyond that was envisaged. There have been a lot of questions here about a fixed course or swimming, about re-ops, about reserves, etc., I think there really is one big interest in the broader aspect of the government's economic policy, and I appreciate it very much. Many of these issues are not very dry political, but they are highly professional. For some of them, I do not feel competent enough to give professional answers, but certainly what needs to be taken into account is that these two pillars of economic policy, monetary and fiscal policy, are complementary but a key document of fiscal policy is actually a budget. So here we are talking about a key fiscal policy document, and whoever is interested in monetary policy is also welcome, but I simply think it is inappropriate for us to consider the issue of monetary policy as well. On the side that monetary policy, as we have heard from one speaker, is in the hands of an independent regulatory body called the National Bank. In the end, I would mention about the public debt because someone mentioned three billion monetary funds, etc., and that applies to these bonds at the moment. I think it's especially important for citizens to know that when someone is in charge, as long as he doesn't spend that money, it doesn't endanger his financial position. So it doesn't grow public debt to you because you took the money, but it grows when you take the money, you spend it. I can tell you that as far as the IMF funds are concerned, they're not three billion, but they're 1.5, but what's on the reserves and it's not a public debt. So, we have this, since it was led about by the controversy a couple of years ago, and the official interpretation that they were formally, but they're not essentially public debt. In the same way, the funds collected from the euro bond can also be treated and it will practically not endanger any of our positions until that moment until they are spent. Since at this point we have not only the funds of this billion dollars in reserve, but we also have about 600m euros in reserve, it is all that we hold and it will provide us with the liquidity of the budget not only in this calendar year but also in the good part of the next one, so we can count on whether this government will leave the future government with significant funds and will not put it in a position to make extorted moves. As far as the spending of these funds is concerned, it's now speculation, they have money, so they're going to spend not on purpose, and that's where I'm saying no one should worry because we're spending money exclusively in accordance with this budget that you've received and not a dinar through the positions that are here will be spent. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the concession in this debate, and I want to continue this way in the next period, when we discuss the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61722	Thank you, Mr. President. We move to the participation of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled single search on the proposals for the law set out in the agenda. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61723	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, as you already know, will support the draft budget rebalancing law. However, I must express my dissatisfaction, because I honestly expected this budget rebalancing to be resolved at least part of the debt problem towards the beneficiaries of military pensions, which occurred, is already safe and familiar between August 2004 and December 2007. I have repeatedly asked questions and requests about this problem over the last few years to resolve the debt and comply with the provisions of Article 193. The Serbian Army Act, which was adopted in January 2008, and I would remind you that the government member was obliged to propose a debt settlement within 90 days. The previous government did not do so, and this one did not solve the problem at the end of the mandate. There have been promises to find solutions and attempts to propose solutions that are at the expense of the beneficiaries of military pensions. The silence is still on the scene, the problem still stands. I would remind you that the initial debt amounted to about 4.5 billion dinars, and since there was no desire to settle the debt, individuals launched judicial proceedings to exercise their rights through the court. According to my data, about 32,500 lawsuits have been filed so far, of which 15,974 court rulings have become executives. So somewhere around 13,000 military pensioners, it didn't do it, or it didn't file a lawsuit. Also, according to the data that I have so far been forced to charge about four billion dinars, means almost the basic debt from what the lawsuits have become executive, and I expect that by the end of the year at least two billion more will be forced to charge. It's an interesting structure of the debt paid. It actually amounts to -39.5% is basic debt, 37.5% I would round, there are decimals there still, there are interest rates. So the basic debt is almost equal to, 20.75% are litigation costs, plus the cost of forced collection of about 2%, so all of that together when you add it up, that's about 23%. Debt is increasing on the basis of interest and court costs, so now that it's counting and paying off, it's between 11 billion and 12 billion, I don't have the exact data. So the debt has been increased nearly three times and it will continue to grow since there is no solution. And the question is, is this what someone should answer for, and I find it very interesting what funds they've been paid off through forced payments and who's actually damaged on that basis? I don't know. I expected, as I said, that this rebalancing debt would at least be partially resolved. However, he continues to be told that he creates dissatisfaction with pensioners who still have such a hard time living. This is a problem I'm potentialing to resolve. I think he's in the interest of both government and state. I know it's a big asset, but it shouldn't have been allowed to triple the debt. Discussing this problem, and given that I have repeatedly highlighted this problem, frankly, I am becoming boring myself. What may be even uglier is the impression that all I see is the pensioner's problem and that I'm not interested in the rest and that I don't see other problems in the country. What I'm trying to say is, I'm denying it and I'm interested in all the other problems, and I'd like this country to flourish. However, I also owe it to protect the interests of those people who are really damaged. Also, I must point out that the pensioners were ready to accept any variant... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... which by government, I say, is the most favourable to resolve this debt, whether in a few years, through certain compensations or any other way... (President: Time. Finish your sentence. I mean simply, although I had something else, when there was a problem that the government needed to really solve this problem, to resolve the satisfaction of the pensioners above all, and certainly the state that had no more of these obligations to the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61724	Thank you. The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61725	I would briefly refer to what you said, I don't know how much you've been informed. However, we have considered the issue. Of course, the problem is that the debt was created at a time of prosperity between 2004 and 2007, and we need to get it back when we have a crisis. On the other hand, we are aware that there must be something to be done and in this context a working group is formed that will make the law and it is going to work. Lawmaking is under way, and under the law, the return of the debt will be defined in a similar way as it was in some other cases, when we took over the commitments made in the previous period. So you can tell your voters, your pensioners, that it's no longer in the drawer, that it's pulled out of the drawer, that it's being seriously considered and that this bill, I believe, in due course, and certainly for the term of office of this government, will see the light of day relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61726	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give my word to Parliamentarian Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61727	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, as last year, and this year's rebalancing cuts budget funds for the co-ordination body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. However, I say again, as last year and this year, I expect there will be an additional reduction through the known lack of funds and returns at the end of the year to the state budget. Unfortunately, that's the situation we've had in the last few years. Mr. President, you have decided to save exactly on the means of coordination and on the resources of the Office for the Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. Nothing new, and your predecessors did the same thing, so we have a huge lag behind undeveloped areas, and in the case of Presevo municipality, we know how many times I'm saying it, which is corridor 10 goes through, and we have a very busy border crossing towards Macedonia and also towards Kosovo, and the situation is that we have seven times the population income per capita compared to the national average, and the unemployment rate you know is more than 70%. A very difficult economic situation, along with additional closings of doors and state-owned public institutions, stimulates the mass departure of Albanians from the Presevo Valley for young Albanians to the University of Pristina, Tirana and Tetova, which has also resulted in an ongoing problem with a large number of our residents in the area seeking asylum in Belgium and other European countries. In fact, the closure of all perspectives for normal life, with the government unprepared to at least create minimum conditions for the return of the refugee population from 1999 to 2001, the time of emergency and wartime conditions, has led to a catastrophic situation, that the Medvedja municipality is now in front of the final stage of total ethnic cleansing -- from earlier 5,500 Albanians, there are only 500 left in this municipality. To all my questions of this nature, I easily get superficial answers, or sometimes incorrect. Since I have received a written response these days for the economic problem by the interior minister, who in an effort to deny my claims that the unemployment rate is more than 70%, it is also estimated that this rate in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja moves between 24% and 25% according to statistical data, i.e. between 32% and 44% according to the National Employment Service data. I've been providing official information to both institutions all along. They're unique, they match. And what else can be said in a municipality of 35,000 people, when there are about 9,000 unemployed, registered in the competent service, and only about 3,000 employees, and then if we are serious, there is no way to hide this disastrous situation from the public through game codes, or in good words. Mr. President, there are totally counterproductive delusions in style, that the coordination body is doing great, and on the other hand, the situation in this area is getting harder. The position for salaries in the service of the coordinating body has increased about three times since 2010 as the number of employees in this service in Belgrade has certainly increased. On the other hand, untapped very significant resources remain necessary for the socio-economic development of this area. Instead of strengthening the capacity of the local self-government of the most undeveloped municipalities, to train them, to cope more successfully with very difficult life problems and to make the relevant ministries more concrete in the economic development of these municipalities, the government has created a new state bureaucratic structure that imposes arbitration measures from a distance, which clearly do not produce results. In a situation where the Republic Agency for Privatisation sells even a protection company for only 2,500 euros, in order to keep more than 30 workers out of work, in a situation where even retail stores cannot be bought by local businessmen, but to impose suspected businessmen from Vranja and Budva, who now have court procedures, and we know why, in a situation where local businessmen do not have access to the use of the economic capacity of Corridor 10 and the border crossings, in a situation where the section of the highway between Presevo and Bujanovac, which was officially opened two and a half years ago, the whole government was at that opening ceremony, still not completed and traffic is still very difficult due to the work obstacles that have been set up there many years ago, also in a situation where more funds have been spent on military projects than on social economic projects, especially in the situation where there is still not provided for the provision of goods in a normal way, some economic development of goods. That is why, without neglecting the role of local authorities, the government's dominant role to address these problems is necessary, to achieve some necessary minimum for economic development, for the normal lives of people, and only then could we be able to talk about the responsibility that local authorities have to create and these foreign environments for favourable economic development. These things I've listed here are exclusively from the domain area of central government competence. We cannot solve problems concerning trade movements both in the direction of Macedonia, and in the direction of Kosovo. Without it, there isn't. What businessman, what crazy man is going to invest in that area when he can't sell his products? That's what the government can do, to provide a new and more serious approach, to finally move into that area, I say and repeat, a normal life, and that we have a perspective for some development. I repeat again, and I end up with that, let's give people a chance to live there normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61728	The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61729	Dear People's MPs, if I understand your discussion correctly, you consider budget rebalancing reduced funds for these purposes you spoke of. I have to say, that's essentially not true. Actually, it's about the next one. With a review of your positions, so these two positions on the coordination body and on the Fund for the Development of underdeveloped areas have reached the conclusion that, as of 31 August of this year, the expenditure of budgeted funds was between 14% and 17%. In other words, in eight months you spent, not you, but the spending was below 20%, and it was planned to stay for the next four months and spend more than 80%. Since it is mainly about construction works needed to pass certain public procurement procedures, to choose a subcontractor and to perform the works, to give the invoice, to verify that invoice, etc. We've come to the conclusion that it's not possible for you to spend the planned amount by the end of the year. For this reason we have shortened those positions for you, with the commitment we have made, and now I am taking it publicly, if we have made a mistake and you are able to spend more than this reduced amount, we are prepared to make up for that part of the current budget that you can spend more than the amount currently in your budget. It's not about any desire to cut it short, it's about getting into real planning, and that's why it's budgeted in those positions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61730	Thank you. There's no reason for Mr. Halimi's replica. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61731	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister or Finance Minister, I think you are still the finance minister, respected citizens of Serbia at the moment. At a time when we have just over 30 days of legal time to reach our 2012 budget, we are discussing budget rebalancing for some money that has already been spent, at a time when possible elections are announced by the end of the year and when MPs of the ruling coalition are criticising you, Mr. President, for what and for what you are not guilty of, your problem is your problem, and perhaps the problem of Serbia that you accept, but you have had three and a half years to tell the public and citizens of Serbia why you accept it. So, when fellow MPs from the ruling coalition criticise the draft budget rebalancing, while saying they will vote on it, an elementary logic is being set up -- why vote something that you disagree with and what do you think is wrong? In protest of such campaign management, Mr. President, I am taking the opportunity to ask you to accept the amendment that I have submitted, and it is about sick children in the city of Chačka and the surrounding area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61732	Thank you. MP Dejan Radenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61733	Thank you. I was surprised by the short speech of my colleague. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, in the budget rebalancing process, we have received one quite reasonable analysis of the fiscal council, which highlights where the rebalancing is taking us, why the rebalancing is going to take place and what the consequences of the same rebalancing will be. There's just nothing we can add to that. What the SPS fully agrees with is that this rebalancing remains within the limits that we ourselves have prescribed and set out in the legal frameworks. It is also true that the space for these manners will be less and less in the future. But with this rebalancing, we do not address the question of the future, which we have drawn up with development strategies and which we have not given up on, but we are solving something which is one of the current problems, which is, above all, the consequence of the movement on the world market, and, if you will, the political developments that follow the realisation of our foreign policy. The fiscal council has made it clear that we need reform structures and we are not running away from that goal. We believe that in both the next government and the assembly majority, only minimal deviations from Serbia's economic and long-term development policies, which this government has routed and partially achieved in conditions in which we simply say, there has been no government in the last 11 years. The first and biggest public objection that can be heard here and from the oppositions of this assembly's majority is that Serbia is fast-tracking in debt. If only figures relating to the movement of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia are looked at, that is unequivocally correct. But the real question is, could it have been done differently? Serbia is not the only country in the world that has well-based anti-crisis policy on the rise of the budget deficit and its funding through government debt. If we're black sheep, what do you say to the centuries-old capitalist economies that have reached for the same solution? Just to ask, what's the alternative? I don't see why we'd be the only ones who'd be a troubled country when the deficit wasn't just our practice. I don't see why there are alternatives that exist and that have been going to a significant reduction in social programmes. Let's say that there are also grants that go for pensions from the budget, there's our education and health care, to say that there's also silence before non-payment of services to public enterprises by the poorest citizens of our country. I don't just know who would tell the pensioners they live too well tomorrow or who would go into open conflict with their own health and education. We from the MPs' club are not lawyers to our ministers, but what we have to say and what is evident is that right now the SPS didn't want to give in to the insurgency of strikes and that he was always offering the most compromise and reasonable solutions in the sectors he'd accepted. No one can impute demagogue and easy to share money they don't have and anyone can hardly prescribe that we want to defend the government, whose part we are, at any cost. The policy of this type, which was present in the past, is foreign to us and we prove it through our work and refusal to be popular by sharing the resources that are not available and by blaming others that we cannot do anything that is impossible or harmful, both for our partners in power and for the vast majority of Serbian citizens. Who does not realize that the consensus on where Serbia's decent policy is going is the most important resource of our society, then it will be difficult to understand the other consensus we have achieved and which have allowed us to deal with major challenges over the last three years. The surreal alternative of this would be to try to collect even more from our economy, which is in very poor shape and which objectively is not able to contribute more to the state's revenues, except to lose a good part of the company or to drive the largest number of companies into the gray sector. Transferring the economy to provide even more resources is hypocritical, and citing individual cases of irresponsibility is throwing dust into the eyes. Actions to push financial discipline, leading to the closure of businesses, are essentially and practically very harmful. If we had any fundamental regrets or objections when it comes to rebalancing, it's that it's precisely the economy that needs to benefit more from this deficit and that part of the burden is removed from it. But we're aware there's been some maneuvering space. No one can deny the need to preserve our businesses through the partial subsidisation of credit lines and other measures that lead to the cost of funding. In the very close past, there was an option to sell our best public enterprises. By selling Telekom and a few smaller public enterprises, they would close the budget structure and we wouldn't have a problem and have funds for more ambitious capital projects. So, although we had a desire to deprive our country of the burdens of public enterprises in sectors where private businesses can do better business, we did not consider it necessary to give them away, especially those that bring profit. It is known to all of us that at present, only from Telekom's profits can be financed on the basis of interest on possible new debts, and that the years that come are inevitably bringing a better and far more acceptable price for Telekom and other public enterprises. Moreover, our goal is to get partners through the privatisation of businesses to solve strategic issues, such as the case in energy, and not to remove another privatisation from the agenda, as was the case in our recent past. The question could be asked – where are the investments that are not the result of the privatisation process? With the sensitivity of the political moment and election year in mind, investors who have defined themselves for Serbia as a good place for their business are simply waiting. We will not give up on the economic policy that Serbia needs to make a good investment destination, but we do not believe that any other congregation majority would do anything other than deepen and increase current intentions. Who thinks we don't pay the price of defense of our sovereignty and through the inflow of investments, either he doesn't understand politics or he hides that fact. But also, concerns will go away, because we are precisely peaceful activities showing that we are not going to lose investments or what we defend, because we can't do otherwise. The public debt already mentioned here is something that is persistently imputed and viewed through the 45% of GDP criterion. We have set our legislation a goal that is more ambitious than the objectives of countries that claim to become part of the euro zone. To become a part of that European club, 60% is a satisfactory option, and we've set the border to 45% and we won't even break it with this rebalancing. Those who point out that debt payouts are growing because they are unfavourable conditions of borrowing are somewhat right, but we still have no problem serving our obligations. We have to point that out. Moreover, the euro bond emissions of the Republic of Serbia by 7% says investors do not perceive us as countries with particularly risky public finances. Compared to the country's bonds, which show us as Serbia's immediate future, our bonds are top-notch securities of value. You can discuss the debt of the country for a very long time and analyze it from a number of angles, but only one option is relative, and that's the assessment of the market, investors who must have thought about it many times before they decided to buy paper from the value of the state that we simply have to say, there's no one long enough to buy credibility if it doesn't create it. So neither we're over-indebted, nor our assets are spent on nonsense. There are objections that are quite in place. That's what we have to say and admit, but it doesn't collapse the rebalancing itself or the budget itself. Surely more can be done on items whose purpose is extremely general. Better use of state property is a great way to go. More transparent and efficient public procurement, too. Revision of certain rights, too. Although there are many opportunities for Serbia to become a more efficient state, they are not within the scope of this rebalance. It's a matter of persevering work on the middle and long term and this rebalancing and it needs to give us enough material to not happen to us from too optimistic assumptions. But, dear colleagues and colleagues, on the other hand too much pessimism could also lead to rebalancing whose causes would be atypical to our situation. So we can figure out that there's a problem, that it's working on their solution, that it's going to move on, because there's not a lot of maneuvering space to jump out of the direction that we've plotted. What should be achieved is as high-quality public finances as possible, a growing division of responsibilities between the private and public sectors, a clear social consensus on important issues and, above all, this rebalancing is not a big question, not one more proof of what you want, but just one technical adjustment of the budget towards the real possibilities of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61734	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61735	Thank you, President. There are no Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. I was hoping when I saw that the authorised representative of the List for European Serbia, Mr Vlahovic, would contribute to the seriousness of this debate. That was indeed so, but then after that, Mr. Vlahovic, of course, is very skillful to point out the positive side of this rebalancing, to it all the honour, I would say better than the prime minister. But after that, we entered a completely incredible debate, and I am sorry that Mr. Cvetkovic is not there, that I should discuss it with him, where, in fact, it was best shown that this government, or as its prime minister, is experiencing both the budget and the public finances and the economic policy. With Mr Arsenovic, as a PUPS representative, he speaks at the level of sending a message to the electoral body, or he tells Mr Arsenovic that he can calm his voters. Mr. Halimi, when asked about the money for the Coordination Centre, he says, "You've spent it." So there are no budget items in this country that each party, or one nation, or one national minority, are in charge of each of them, so that the votes necessary for the adoption of this budget are raised in this way. I have to disagree with that budget categorisation, that is, budget rebalancing as a technical issue. I can't imagine any parliament in Europe and the world, and especially not at this moment of crisis, facing Angela Merkel, or any other prime minister and saying that the rebalancing is a more technical problem. There's another reason why it's not a technical document. Unlike some others, I hope to correctly quote the president of this assembly, who today stated that the election can be called by the end of this year. So, no maintenance. This puts us in a position that this can actually be a model for our budget, or for the financing of our country, and for the next four, five or six first months of the following year. It is a very certain situation that we may also enter into temporary financing and that different items of this budget, especially those that are not nominally distributed on these large and technically more properly done tables. So they will be spent during that period. That period can be called the pre-election election period of the black days, as the Prime Minister pointed out at the meeting of the Finance Committee this morning. I have a problem, first of all, Mr. Cvetkovic, with your argument that 87 billion dinars, or 870m euros, which are actually surpluses, or the rest of these funds that we've come to sell not only euro bonds, as you said, but practically 400 billion dinars of other funds that we've received on the basis of the sale of state charters to be spent. You said you were responsible for the government, that you left them for the dark days. I find it a little strange that in mid-October you are already planning black days by the end of this year, or in the first months of next year. Of course you're absolutely right when you say public debt doesn't increase at the time you take those funds, but at the moment you spend them. That's the problem. Our fear is that you will spend it by the end of this year, and in the first half of next year. Also, your argument that you are here all the time, that whether the government is in a technical mandate when elections are called or the government is full of capacity, it won't spend money outside of those items prescribed in the budget, it doesn't make much sense. We never accused you of taking money in bags and suitcases and paying off some kind of obligation. Of course you will meet what is formally provided for in the budget, but the budget item is both a non-wave category and a constitutional preamble. The budget item and subsidies to the 160 million railways, that and a whole series of subsidies in the economy, that is to pay back leftover claims, etc. Since we live in the country we live in, we have the experience we have, what our fear is that you in the finale of pre-election fights or races will try to run a new investment cycle that will look great in front of TV cameras, but the accounts will be put out to the next government. If you meet some obligation from this budget and you can't do it from regular budget revenues, but for that you take the funds that you get by selling the euro bonds, then you no longer have the euro bond money for any other type of investment or cost that you otherwise planned in the next year or years. I would not say that this kind of spending planning is run by a socially responsible policy or policy that is responsible for the next government. For me, it's an expression of quite low ambition, of course, not you personally but of the political parties you represent and on whose behalf you run the government. I suppose you're hoping that the next government, in something different, will be your government. I don't understand how you plan to serve all those obligations you're going to make in the meantime. Secondly, your concept that this rebalancing is both social and developmental incentivizing is correct. Unlike some colleagues, I don't think these are two mutually exclusive goals or motives. The problem is, what your perception means is both. He is socially responsible to the citizens, first of all, because he is of some kind, to say charity to them. This second part, which is called development-encouragement, is also a kind of charity, according to the economy itself. If you look at your share of the rebalancing that is called – subsidies, where the funds you characterise as development-incentive, almost half of these funds go to large loss companies. The part you reserve for bail, it's hardly a developmental incentive. Citing the provisions of this budget rebalance, I will remind you of several items outside. So, in 2011, the Republic of Serbia issued guarantees, let's say for Galenika, to refinance short-term commitments of 70m euros. It won't be that it's the result of a global economic crisis or an elemental accident. You, more or less, are constantly presenting this reason for the adoption of the rebalancing, or the fall in budget revenues called lower GDP growth, as some sort of nothing caused or undeserved elemental disasters. It won't be like that. There must be some mistakes in the economic and general policy that have led to such results. There is what Mr Radenkovic was talking about a few minutes ago, that a reduced income from investment, and then means a weaker functioning of budgets and bigger problems and in the functioning of our economy and state, pays this kind, Mr Radenkovic says good Kosovo or patriotic policies, and I say completely wrong policies that will lead us to bankruptcy, not only economic or budgetary but also, I would say politically. I think we see it very convincingly these days. So, the Galenika 70m euros for short-term commitments came directly due to poor governance of the company. It's a pharmacy. It's not some business area where I don't know what kind of disturbances have occurred, and where the company's been in big trouble. It's more likely that it came because we have a completely wrongly set system of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which is what we're talking about here. "Srbigas", also refinanced short-term commitments – 190m euros. "JAT" 10 million. Construction Directorate, for the big development project, apartments "July 4th", 25m euros on this basis alone. It is excellent to run these processes of building state apartments or apartments that are at a socially acceptable price of 1,300 euros, which is more or less at the level of commercial, or market prices in that part, so where the state will help, but you don't even have a basic 25m euros to start the job, and while at these sites you already have some companies that perform certain works and I think they are already in serious problems because the state can't service the kind of obligation it has to them. It is the other side of this large budget savings of 8.5 billion euros in the position of capital investments, which Mr. Nikezic, your State Secretary, will tell you whether carelessly or with your decision, just a few weeks ago, representing the budget, announced that it will be financed or covered or found by changing the dynamics of paying to performers, which will be practically transferred in the first months of next year. I don't think the prime minister should boast that the savings space was found by realising capital projects, that is, their dynamics with 15, 20 or 25%, or because these delays are huge. We've been building this highway through the plain for decades, but we're expecting a lot of hard work, regardless of how these stories of failed concessions will end, etc. So, only in these few items that I was talking about went 300m euros, i.e., it will go 300m euros. Over the past few weeks, various MPs have asked the government how many bank guarantees or state guarantees in favour of primary debtors were activated in 2011. The data is last, I think it was an answer to Mr. Buha's question, that by September 20th, none was formally activated, but the state at the moment of the commitment actually paid itself, without calls and without the cost of paying the guarantee, some six billion dinars, and only according to this budget rebalancing will the guarantees be issued for the next few years, of course, of about 300 billion, three billion euros, and the vast majority of the jobs or reasons for which these guarantees are to be issued are related to this current spending that I spoke of or showed in the case of only these few users who will spend 300 million euros, in the ultimate line of state money, because the state will pay out commitments on these loans. Several times, a report from the Fiscal Council was quoted. I look forward to it, especially when such comments come from representatives of the ruling coalition, but I don't think there are many reasons for optimism, if this report is carefully read, or the evaluation of the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council says personal spending in Serbia fell by 6 per cent in the first half of 2011. You said that in the first two quarters everything was practical, you didn't say very great, but very encouraging in the Serbian economy, and then in the third quarter you see the tendency of a serious fall. It's rather strange, given that this kind of budget rebalance with a change of projections is being prepared and sent somewhere in early September, practically, when the third quarter just started. The only growth in real income in the first seven or eight months of this year is in the position of excise income, only because of the fact that last year, two days before the new year, you first introduced double excise duties, and then in May or June of this year, you leveled them at a higher level, and that is the only revenue growing in your budget, Mr. Cvetkovic, in the first seven or eight months. You have a huge fall in the value added tax position, which is the highest revenue of the budget. I was shocked by the sentence you said – that the state would also agree to higher tax revenues, especially based on VAT and will never say: thank you, don't pay any more, if you have more. So that's the key problem of this country. These people to whom tax obligations arise, or VAT obligations, do not pay you because they have more, but because it is an obligation imposed on them and that has nothing to do with whether they have paid for the work they have done, the service they have provided or the goods they have sold. So they'll pay you at the moment when the invoice is issued, as before, and not at the time when they really charge that claim, and especially when they charge it from the state, it'll wait six, eight or ten months. Those who have waited so long will wait a few more months, until next year, since you have made such a thing possible for yourself, that kind of privilege with this kind of budget rebalance. I wouldn't go into any more detail, there'll be an opportunity to discuss the amendments, whether Vojvodina was taken or not. Some things are already at a symbolic level simply wrong. So, you can't today, especially you who practically wrote this constitution and participated in its adoption, do this at the Finance Committee's session, discuss whether the author's intention was to say how much the duchy budget would be, and that there is no obligation for the Republic of Serbia to provide it. It wasn't like that, Mr. Cvetkovic. Signing up such a member, or such an obligation in the Constitution of Serbia, was also a condition for the duchy parties, but primarily parts of your party from Vojvodina, to support that kind of constitution. You know that even with that kind of support he didn't get most of the referendum in Vojvodina. Then don't at least write such a rebalancing that it says that in that part of the NIP's former assets, it also erases the one billion that was guaranteed for Vojvodina. You'll say it'll be paid on some other basis. But the budget and budget rebalancing are not only technical acts, but also political acts and it is therefore important to what kind of message is sent to different social groups or parts of the country, and that will end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61736	I thank and give my word to the People's Messenger Vlajk Senić. Let Zoran Nikolic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61737	Dear President of Parliament, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to Mr Cvetkovic for coming to the meeting of the Finance Committee today where they were representatives of the Fiscal Council and the DRI and I think it was indeed an opportunity for anyone interested to discuss the details of someone related to this budget without some great public presence and take this opportunity. I am convinced that such a practice will continue, that we simply and in this way demonstrate to the citizens at least the will to show greater responsibility when we talk about spending money that is in real taxpayer money. I will not say anything spectacular if I say what the reasons why we are adopting rebalancing are and if we want to be correct and realistic, if we want to turn around, we will see that a large number of countries and the most powerful economic ones in the world are struggling with the budget deficit, to fight the decline in income, and to fight unemployment, to fight the tax ejaculation, and that is simply some trend that certainly couldn't bypass our country, our finances, our budget, is just a question in any way we can respond to such challenges and it's perfectly normal that when a country that had a growth projection of 3% of social product, that projection is revised to 2%. When income is reduced, when inflation is higher than projected, and we respect as the Assembly and as the Government fiscal rules and in line with real, rather than projected inflation, we increase wages in the public sector and pensions. So on the one hand, you have a lack of income, and on the other hand you have more expenses than was planned. Certainly, budget rebalance and greater deficit is something that was economically necessary and normal and is just a question of how we respond to that fact. What I'd say is a good indicator, if we found a decent answer. The fact that we have received the support of the IMF, that their representatives were present all the time during budget rebalancing, that I would say, the opinion of the Fiscal Council positively, that we have respected everything that we together as MPs in the Assembly have adopted by making certain concessions as a result of the fact that all the states that are now in the economic crisis, and I don't know which are not, make up certain, I would say, fiscal gymnastics in an attempt to intervene the state, how much they stop the decline in economic activity and affect real life and real economy. Of course I'm going to say, that's what we heard today, it's a question of the law on the financing of local self-government and it's not hard to remember what they were like here, to say, the arguments when we fought for this law, that there would be less wages and pensions, that there would be disaster, that the International Monetary Fund would not support that rebalancing, that the state wouldn't be able to endure that, etc. As you can see, several months after that, there are no such problems and there is no problem with the fact that this country has decided to introduce the principle of decentralisation into practice and that local self-government has been available since 1 October of this year, and in the coming period every year with much more resources than it would have been if we hadn't changed that law. If you look at a very neat Internet presentation of the Public Debt Administration and look at the state of responsibility of local self-government with some exceptions, you will see that they are in a perfectly decent state of duty. So, 90 percent of local self-government municipalities and cities are in charge of less than it is under the law. There is room for additional borrowing, and even if you look at the cost structure of local self-government, you will see that there is a significant part of many local self-government that represents investment. When we heard the story here that capital investments were sacrificed at the expense of that law, it's absolutely not true. First of all, capital investments can be viewed at the level of the consolidated budget of the Republic of Serbia, not at the level of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Secondly, we all know that the practice of one-year capital investment planning is something that probably brings all of us together every year into a situation that at the end of the year we are practically revising the amount of these investments because the procedure is such that it makes it impossible for some projects to be implemented. So, maybe there's a will, maybe there's a means, but there's a simple procedure, which is often six to nine months tender, means that some things just can't end up within a given year, and I guess the next government is going to think about introducing a little, let's say, more drastic multi-annual planning of capital expenditure, that in that way we have a better relationship between what we're planning and what we can realize. So there's a lot of capital expenditure at the local level as well. Secondly, I am sure that most of the resources of any responsible local self-government leader who will get on the basis of this rebalance will be spent on expenditure that is important for this local self-government and concerning future development and some future generations because that is logical. If they were able to finance salaries with their income so far, they could finance social expenditure, it's quite logical that the extra income, some kind of elemental logic, you don't need some big profession, it states that the extra income can probably go either for partial financing and debt refinance, or for some investment and capital investment. I want to look back on really certain individual cases because he stayed here, I'd say, a bitter taste of the fact that we practically made a substitute for some kind of means and that local self-government didn't get any more funding. The amendment submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia clearly speaks about how they are shared, so in the fourth quarter of the funds that are non-purpose transfers, also how those funds are shared by the special Solidarity Fund "Thank Belgrade", which is practically the creator of the fund and I think local self-government has a very high degree of financial certainty to plan to end this financial year. No one can tell me that, for example, Vienna, a municipality in Vojvodina that was supposed to earn 90 million dinars earlier in the law, before the adoption of amendments to the law to finance local self-government, will now earn 126 million in the fourth quarter and have an increase of 40%, that Cačak will have an increase of 100 million which is 39% compared to what was planned, that a small Cicevic will have 63% more resources, that Kragujevac will have 37%, that Kruševac will have 34%, that Lapovo, a small but very significant municipality on the highway, will have 74% more income, that Leskovic, who is struggling with different problems, will have 123 million 901% or 41% more income, that Surdulica will have 54% more income, so he will find Uzice, we remember how much more of that city, have 50% more income, etc. I wouldn't bother you with those numbers. Besides, they're standing in the budget. So, I'm talking by the concept that we're up against. The aim was to manage it differently with the resources available. These eight billion dinars that are a net effect when we look at the transfers of dedicated, then the transfers of solidarity and twice as much income tax, the idea is that they are so distributed, that they are no longer spent on the decisions of a central budget, but that opportunities are given to people who run local self-government to make financial investment decisions in which they will use it. You all know well whether we come from Belgrade, which also, not to skip it, although the story of being the victim of this law, can count on significantly greater funds in the last quarter, so it certainly makes sense that financial decentralisation is done in a way that people at the bar can solve their problems better than the government of the Republic of Serbia can solve it and that they have appropriate financial resources to solve the problem. Of course, I'm not saying this as some kind of money that we've just invented and given to local self-government, we're very grateful to all the partners who have supported this law of ours, and we simply believe that this is in the interest of changing the way our financial system works. That's why I think it's important and what we're going to pass the public debt law, that the possibility of the municipalities being in debt will be regulated, that this process will be more transparent. I hope that the possibility will be opened for citizens to buy these municipal bonds, not just the banking sector. So this system isn't something that brings benefit to some kind of current... At the end of the line, local elections will be held the same way as these, so anyone else who comes to power, especially next year, will be able to count with more money. Capital expenditures at the state level have been reduced, but are not really reduced at the level of the government's consolidated balance sheet and at the central budget level, are not reduced on the basis of the consolidated balance sheet. So I believe there's room for smart investment only in another way there's enough. There was talk here and some kind of country duty. It would be best if duty was zero, but I don't know any country that doesn't have a public debt in the world today. Let us look around at what is happening in many euro area countries. I'm not saying that what's going on in Greece is supposed to be pushed out and said -- here we are better than them, we should also think about today's level of duty being practically at the border of what's allowed by law and think about how we're going to keep it in the future. Of course, we're open to this kind of debate, but what we can't say is that the government couldn't borrow or accuse the government of being in charge for no reason, is really the principle of united courts. If we are a country still living in the EU environment, all of those economic trends that are happening in our environment must certainly happen in Serbia. We can talk here about who we're in charge of, under what conditions, in what way, for which purposes we're going to spend these funds, but no one can dispute the elemental fact that the state, at the time of the crisis, when its income falls, has to be in debt. The question arises if we have already approached that 45% figure, if we have passed the Restitution Act which will also burden our public debt in some future period, in which way we will have fiscal sustainability in the future. It is already a question that will be opened when we speak very quickly about the 2012 budget which we will probably have to pack with more pain than we do with rebalancing today. Of course, that fact that we found ourselves in will force us to engage further in public sector reform. If you look at the budget, it's very clear on the Finance Committee, you see that these are pensions, salaries, social issues, defenses, education, etc., that the classical administration draws about 3.2 or 3% of total expenditure. So, it doesn't exist and it's impossible, you see, even in the case of Greece, to constantly save, it's impossible to constantly cut expenditure, because when you cut wages, you cut pensions, you reduce citizens' purchasing power, you crash economic activity, the social product decreases, there are fewer incomes. Therefore, there is no possibility that maximum and some permanent cuttings can be maintained fiscal stability in one country. So we have two processes to run. I think this government has shown good results when we talk about this fiscal shagging and trying to cut some unnecessary budget costs, but I also think that for this government and for some next major challenge will be how to implement this truly fundamental public sector reform, in which way we think about alimony to say pension funds, to pay in the public sector. Is it possible to have one decent fiscal sustainability if we don't actually make some drastic changes in the public sector? Because if the economic crisis continues, and unfortunately there are some indicators that point to this, we will be in a very difficult situation to have fiscal sustainability in Serbia in the medium term. That is why I am sure that we will open this topic, I would say, serious reforms within the public sector, which includes public enterprises, and I agree, a more responsible approach, in which way they operate, why we provide guarantees, where these reports, where these funds are spent etc., etc. When we talk about the transparency of the central budget, we can't say that there are really no huge shifts. The fact is that there is a Fiscal Council, the fact is that we still have some set frameworks, not just us, but any other government within which we can move. And it doesn't seem like the fact that the government is now in charge, I don't know, a billion dollars, and that money is in some account, and it's clearly written that the goal, to say, is to maintain liquidity and that now someone in the ministries can use it for a pre-election campaign. So this is a pre-election campaign. So, here's what's written in the budget, that's it. We can use it and it's safe to use it, but what we're gonna do and I guess we're gonna do something, we're right to advertise, when we're in opposition, then we're gonna do something else. But there's no way you're using other funds now that aren't planned for the budget. I'd say one more thing. There's an open question here that's not directly related, I would simply say a question and some ideas that were here, to introduce a fixed course, etc. I think it's really unserious and that a state like Serbia, which is so sensitive to that extent, which has a high trade deficit, can't even think about introducing a fixed course or some currency board. She can only think about stabilising finance that would lead to a stable course and I don't think anyone seriously in this country is thinking about it. I would simply like to say it here in the Assembly, it is important that those who are interested in this topic can hear that message. So, all in all, to say that we will support the Rebalance proposal because it respects economic reality, because it carefully takes care of the projected public finances and because it has now respected, I would say, and realistically what we have been fighting for over the past year and a half – to change that funding concept, therefore, to distribute more of the same funds in such a way that more will be for local self-government. I am sure that all of you who come from different municipalities in Serbia will be able to leave, whether you vote for rebalancing or not, it is not so important, that you can leave, satisfied with the fact that you have, however, participated in the work of this National Assembly of your municipalities, made it possible for them to have more resources and I am sure that this is something that may also make you support you in the elections, although in that part of the legislative activity you did not support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61738	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. Let Vice President Gordana Komic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61739	Dear citizens of Serbia, Mr. Petkovic, I will read what you said in December 2010 when we adopted the 2011 budget. You said the key principles on which this year's budget is based were development and savings. How much development we've had this year, some citizens themselves, and as far as saving is concerned, I'd also like you to give us the data, but you're certainly not going to do that, how many jobs in the public sector have actually been increased solely by the principle of party membership. You were then defending the budget along with then finance minister Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic. You took part in the debate, as you normally do, very briefly and very little, and she, as finance minister, courageously defended the budget. She defended him for a long time and not so successful, even though she thought she did it that way. Then I told Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic the next thing -- that it was the last budget she would defend in this assembly and that she would no longer be the finance minister. She laughed ironically then. I see that you are perfectly indifferent, but I will tell you – and this is the last rebalancing you will defend in this House. You may propose this assembly budget and you may defend it, but I'm not sure about that either, but certainly you will be in the post and place of prime minister in 2012. I see that indifference, but I hear comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61740	Please don't shoot in the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61741	Ma'am, maybe the SPS is taking action the way you just said it. The prime minister is primarily shot by Serbian citizens, so this is an important difference, and instead of reminding me, you should remind the ruling majority who throws it away, and throws it away because, besides Mr. Cvetkovic is perfectly calm and that it might be good for him to be no longer prime minister, that the man who is now getting a good rest is very upset, because he will no longer have such a weak prime minister who will give them everything they are ordered and will order the prime minister to meet with all his calmness that he constantly demonstrates.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61742	I really wanted to ask you to leave this kind of perception, when it comes to the prime minister and the post of prime minister, for the dignity of this house for yourself and for private comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61743	I use that right in my privacy, but as a national MP and for this speaker I want to express my opinion, I am deeply convinced, the vast majority of citizens, when it comes to the position of prime minister and the position of this government, because if you say that the budget is developmental and thrifty, it will be in development and savings function, and now we have this kind of rebalancing that actually tells us how weak we are in the financial and economic sense of a weak state, as far as this government, headed by this country's prime minister in the wrong direction, then a different comment and I can't make. The prime minister, among other things, praised the great success of reaching an agreement with the IMF. I'd be careful if I made such statements. Any country that entered such large-scale arrangements with the IMF did not go out with a positive balance and was normally in the growing economic problems. You boast of success, that preliminary issue of bonds on the world market. You said it was a great success. What interest, 7.25? Let's translate it so the citizens can understand. A billion dollars a interest of 7.25% a year, we're going to pay back $725 million in the next 10 years. You consider it a success. Well, let's compare how other countries do it. What kind of interest do government bonds issue? A lot less interest. That's what the problem is. You owe this country day and day to the citizens. Economists have calculated that every day between three and 3.5m euros you owe us as citizens of this country. Is that a responsible policy? Of course not. When we talk about saving, which you said this budget proposal was going to promote, the only thing that wasn't legally saved were the transfers of local self-government. In these three years since you're the prime minister of the local self-government financing Act, you've managed to cut the transfer funds to local self-governments of 55 billion dinars. Now with this rebalancing, these funds are shrinking. To tell the citizens and to give them basic information - it is not yet known whether this budget will be adopted. By the start of this debate, a great danger has been removed whether the RAS MPs will vote, by breaking up with you, or blackmailing you not to enter the O.R. if you do not meet certain requirements and do not adopt an amendment concerning the determination of the exact transfer funds. You were forced to do that. It says how weak your government is and it says how weak this coalition, which is currently in power a very short period of time, is actually a weak coalition and is subject to different influences, or blackmail within itself. What I'm trying to say and inform the citizens, although they know it, I think it's good to do it again, the DSS has filed a criminal report against you in more than 100 cities where you cut off funds under the Law on the financing of local self-government. DSS representatives filed criminal charges against you and then Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic. The result of the reduction of these transfer funds is catastrophic. You forced local self-government, cities and municipalities to take loans, to borrow and to do what is specific to this government, also do not pay for the works they ordered from different companies. What does this budget rebalance consist of? By deepening the deficit, by saying yourself that GDP growth will be less than projected. And in fact, there's a great deal of danger in that. If this growth were greater or if there were conditions to be greater, even with this deficit we might be able to deal with, but also in this situation, with this energy of this government that you are symbolizing, it is clear that GDP growth cannot be greater and that this deficit that we are now adopting will be a great burden for citizens in 2012 and in later years. What are you saving on? Save on capital expenditures. On the other hand, you're saying that this budget in the function of economic development, fostering economic development, and by 8.4 billion you're reducing capital expenditures. Subsidies, too, are being reduced, and you say that this budget is in the function of encouraging those who export, who produce, etc. What's particularly dangerous is that by 3.5 billion you reduce the cost of paying off interest. At this point, with this budget rebalance, you're letting us know that you're unable to service the debts you've made over the past 3-4 years. When we calculate GDP growth estimates, industrial production, etc. It is clear that 2012 is the year in which we will really not be able to service these debts. The point is, actually, since you are the Prime Minister who is not only dealing with the economy, but also other important state affairs, but when we talk about the budget, finance and the economy, you have greatly compromised the economic sovereignty of this country. What makes me especially angry sometimes is that you are so perfectly calm, which the state is threatened and economically, but not only economically, but is threatened and territorially. It's a good thing you're smiling right now. The government that has not fulfilled any of its pre-election promises, the government whose jobless mandate is left between 300 and 400,000 people, the government that owes these citizens 3.5m euros is a government that has only one goal, which is to remain in power for as long as possible. Now I'm telling you, you have the opportunity to remain in power but not for much longer, a few more months. The citizens, when the next few months pass, will say what they think about your government, about you personally, about President Tadic and all the ministers of this coalition, which is certainly this country to this extent humiliated and its own built, destroyed their dignity, that it actually deserves to be, as one colleague from a now renegade party said – the garbage of course goes to the garbage dump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61744	It's really a termology that you've used inappropriately, but it's a thing that you'll be estimating and those who have voted for you so far. The word has a prime minister. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61745	Dear People's MP, I will not look back on your terminology or your political messages, it is your right, in any case, it is not my level, to speak in this way. I wanted to look back at the two things you mentioned, which are in the domain of the professional question, the issues of this budget. It is a question of deficit ratios and economic growth and the issue of interest levels in this budget. I would appeal to you to read a little literature, from which you will find that when it comes to the relationship between deficits and economic growth, there is a reverse correlation – which is the economic growth higher, the deficit should be smaller. Chuck, you need to create surpluses in high economic growth and vice versa, as your economic growth falls, you need to go to a larger deficit. It's just one legality. The deficit in the low economic growth situation is one of the instruments of economic policy to stimulate economic growth. Therefore, your idea that high growth results in high deficits is something that I have heard for the first time and I hope that economists will not take it as a recommendation, but rather as a political attitude. Secondly, when it comes to interest and the reasons why interest is reduced, I would like to say that the vault papers that the Ministry of Finance has been issuing for two years and which have served to finance the liquidity of the budget have been issued on a relatively short deadline. First it was a month, three, six, anyway, since they showed up as parallel papers with repo papers that were placed by the NBS and that she paid for them so-called. The repo rate, otherwise repo papers are two weeks, completely liquid, in order for the finance ministry to provide interested ones to buy his papers, she had to go with a rate that was above the repo rate. That difference was once not great – half to one percent, but remember that our repo rate last year was 13%, 12%, and now we've reduced it to 11%. She's expected to go down with a drop in inflation. By reducing the repo rate, our rate we pay for our vault papers is reduced as well. Thus, the interest that has been calculated in sums and projected at the level of x you have seen, new calculations have shown that at lower rates, which we have already begun to make, this payment interest will be lower. There's no story of us reducing interest because we can't pay back our debts, it's completely pointless. If that's what you really mean, I'm telling you, you're in complete error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61746	Thank you. Vice-President Gordana Comic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61747	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments and additions to the Budget Law are being brought into several situations in each country. One of the frequent ones is that during the term of office of one government, the number of ministries and the competence of individual ministries is changed and that changes and additions of the Budget Law are necessary at that time. Another significantly rare situation is when we have on the agenda, after the adoption of the budget, amendments and additions to the Budget Law, when we have undervalued economic growth that year, so we have high economic growth and then we need either to change the methodology or to re-enter the Budget Law into the Assembly, in order to bring what is actually in line with the positions on the income and distribution side. The third kind, the most unpopular and most unpopular, is the obligation to make changes and complement the Budget Law in times of economic crisis, and that is the time that, by now, corresponds to the government's mandate, led by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and you have to make changes and additions to the Budget Law, because, in order to meet the challenges of the economic crisis, which we are, of course, affected by, but much more, by the global financial and economic market, which we are ultimately an unbreakable part of. When you look at the last three and a half years, since July 2008, when the government is formed by Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, we have had eight budgets and budget rebalances, so basically what's called a fiscal period is summed up to some four months. It's the management of public finances. Why is this introduction, without any doubt, that we present in the hall know this information, although sometimes we are ashamed to show our knowledge, we prefer to be proud of our own ignorance in attitudes that are nothing at all founded, because we think it entertains, whether the public or us in the O.R., but well, it's a question of character and completely natural for parliaments? Because people in Serbia need to know why we are even discussing amendments to the Budget Law. Another important thing I want to share with all of us and with the citizens of Serbia, which is that in meetings with EU representatives, with representatives of developed countries, Russia, America, I do not rarely hear a sentence – why are you in Serbia talking about yourself worse than it is about Serbia? I don't have the right answer, I don't speak ill of Serbia. I can only say that it is one habit in Serbia, that there is one bad mentality habit to speak – everything is bad and everything sucks and that is considered a criticism. It has nothing to do with criticism, criticism is good news, but there is one tendency of various circles in Serbia, which, without any need at all, and so, unfortunately, by hiding what is really bad in Serbia, often use a sentence – everything is bad and everything sucks and nothing is wrong, and they view it as a criticism. It's not a criticism, it's a classy cynicism and pessimism, which is actually running away from every kind of responsibility. Why do I think the government led by Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic is responsible for the government? When you look, no matter how short the fiscal period between the two budgets, no matter whether it is brought on an annual level or as a proposal for changes and additions, then you will see a clear line of strategic governance of public finances and you will see that it is clearly seen that the trade is known when it comes to fiscal policy. In one sentence, only much more because of those who are following us, than because of us who would have to know, which is that fiscal policy, that taxes, different types of taxes, collect money practically from everyone, quite certainly from everyone, because we're all taxpayers of some kind of tax, and that by the divisive side of the budget, again on a legally established basis, that money is spent only on some or only something. It's the key to a good budget. Is it best that you spend that money, when we've already decided by law what it is or who it is that it's going to be spent on? When we talked about the budgets over the past three and a half years, we talked about the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget in one special time, in which the EU countries, developed countries, what the English would like to call "lands of prey", the countries of abundance, the countries of good standard, when they entered a time of poverty. From what is currently happening in the United States, in part even in Russia, which remained slightly less touched by the global economic crisis, at least in China, but it is clear that there is a time of poverty for the developed. Why is this important to Serbia? Because, as a result, for us, it means a slower time out of the poverty we've been living in for quite a long time. In a funny way, when the news, which was obvious at the first time, about the financial crisis of the world in 2008, one of the funny people said – in Serbia such a mood is such and Serbia is such a place that even the crisis won't work. I have to say, unfortunately, she did it, we felt the economic and financial crisis. The time in which we look at how developed countries are just entering a time of poverty, all the EU countries and the developed world, is the time that we need to measure how slow we will be or how much more time we will spend to get out of the poverty so far. There is a time for some of the good news we heard today when it comes to the Law on Changes and Budget Supplements, not only from Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, the Prime Minister, but also from my fellow MP Radet Obradovic. He had an idea about the adoption of a one-proposed law that would hand over payment, one of the biggest problems we have in Serbia, which is that so-called. Business practice in Serbia calls – no one pays anyone. I supported the idea that this law was being discussed and I would support the idea that, together with Mr Radet Obradovic, we also discuss this on the Finance Committee, and if it is necessary to listen publicly, precisely because the government, namely Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, has announced that they are thinking absolutely strategically identically, when it comes to limiting the time of payment. So, it is said that as for not only small and medium-sized enterprises, I will spend another part of my time on them, but the incentive for the planned budget rebalance also implies a series of additional measures in the post-crisis period, which should allow for the dynamic growth of the Serbian economy, which is a limitation of the payment deadline for the republican and local authorities to 60 days. The important thing, I would like my colleague Vlajko Senic to be there, given that he is a promoter of a specific kind of fiscal decentralisation, by moving money from one position to another, is that all these local self-governments that will be strengthened, which will be facilitated by this additional money next year, to remind them that there are small and medium-sized enterprises. What we hear from the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, from people who employ from two to three to 80 people, is that in the organs of local self-government, even in tax administrations, at every meeting with a public service, they see them as enemies, that instead of making their job easier, they put obstacles to them, completely unnecessary. I think it's a topic that, along with my colleague Radet Obradovic, I would like to bring into debate in our assembly, with a possible agreement on the law, when it comes to the limitation of payment. The long good news, except for this one to limit the payment deadline by 60 days, is to secure favourable credit lines. One is already available, according to the Prime Minister, and concerns the European Investment Bank credit line app, intended for small and medium-sized enterprises and exporters of a total value of 250m euros, with an interest rate of 5.5%, three years of grace periods, plus nine years of repayment. Why do I think these are key measures, for me, the key news shared with us by the Prime Minister? Because only countries that still have now and after a time of poverty, where otherwise developed countries, which have both energy and food, oil, gas, diamonds, whatever you want, can afford the ease of not paying attention to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in their own country. Serbia does not have that kind of resources, and small and medium-sized enterprises are what constitutes the backbone of the development of a successful economy that is clearly being built in Serbia. I would like it to be a much more significant, much more visible subject and to be heard much more by people who work in their small and medium enterprises, because in that case, we will all find it much harder to be proud of our own ignorance, because we will discuss the facts with them. Announcing the establishment of a development bank that really represents a new quality in supporting the export segment of the Serbian economy, also good news. And the announcement that we will also have amendments to the Tax Procedure Act which will introduce the obligation to pay employees' contributions in the payment of net earnings, thus ensuring not only a more orderly payment of employees' rights but also a higher level of competition on the market. We in this Assembly had several times, practically, laws that we paid out of all the funds to self-deliver employees who were not done by their employer, regardless of whether the employer was from the public sector or from the private sector. If this is not proof that this is a socially responsible government and budget, then I don't know what else would be similar, as I'm going to remind you when it's arbitraryly and manipulatively speaking about public debt or when it's about the government's unwillingness to really deal with financial stability, that in 2001 we had 143%, the Prime Minister will correct me if I don't remember a good figure when it comes to public debt and whether I am personally and whether I belong to a government or not, but working on stabilisation, or reducing public debt, fiscal discipline and introducing regulations that normally apply in normal countries. Finally, only one remark that is often heard when it comes to whether co-operation with the EU means anything to Serbia today or Serbia next year or in years ahead. When this is justified by the time of the poverty in which some of the EU countries have been given more, one of the EU countries is less, but in any case all the significant changes in fears or fears about their population, now compared to 2007 when the crisis was only announced. An example of Greece is mentioned here, as proof that the modernisation and that the laws that you once applied really change the structure of your society, that it means nothing and that Greece is now the same as it was 35 years ago, but nothing like that. Who went to Greece 35 years ago and who was in Greece today, Greece is nothing like itself 35 years ago and should not lose sight of it if we really want to talk about the bad and good qualities of what each EU member state has brought to European integration. In this assembly, Mr Cvetkovic will also propose a draft budget law for 2012, and with the hope that he will not have the need to propose amendments to the 2012 Budget Law, except in the case of surpluses, I thank you for these good news concerning, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and I thank my colleagues from the ruling majority and the opposition who are willing to work on the basis of facts and knowledge and good political will to open up and keep a permanent theme on how to improve the conditions in which small and medium-sized enterprises operate in Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61748	Thank you. I give word to the Messenger of the people, Zoran Mašić, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61749	Madam President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will speak tonight about something that has not been mentioned by Mr. Prime Minister or by any MP who has taken active part in the debate. My discussion will, above all, refer to budget rebalancing and the agrarian budget and, above all, to how much this country will define in the agrarian budget and how at least 500, 600 000 people in this country are interested in working and living on agricultural production or at least 350, 400 thousand registered agricultural holdings or at the very least 80, 90,000 landowners who regularly receive, meaning, exercise the right to grant or subsidise agricultural production. I simply find it incomprehensible that the Prime Minister here, as the most responsible in the government, and at the same time the finance minister, does not mention in a word what this country has made possible through budget rebalancing or how much increase, and certainly the expectations of the agricultural producers that this country defines most of the assets in the agrarian budget and provides greater subsidies for agricultural production, because we also had protests by agricultural producers, precisely because of the failure of the Government of the RS and the Ministry of Agriculture to agricultural producers, in the part of the subsidies. However, as could be heard, those citizens who, if any, have followed this debate from the beginning, have not said a word about the agrarian budget, or our agriculture, or our farmers. This country and this people live like this, it has this standard and this kind of price largely from that agricultural production. Finally, this country and this people will have and will have this year, and we hope in the coming years when this government is changed, that they will have much greater foreign income from agriculture and from exports and food sales, because it is also important today on the world market. I must disappoint our agricultural producers that this time too, unfortunately, this government has failed the trust of agricultural producers and has not increased subsidies in the area of agriculture. Not that it did not increase, but even reduced the amount of subsidies. If you look at the 2011 budget, on the other hand you can see that there is an amount of 20 billion dinars for farm subsidies. If the budget rebalancing, on the third hand, EC 45 – subsidies for agriculture, are proposed by the budget rebalance of 19,785,378,000. So, for some 215 million less. Is this really what you permanently promise to agricultural producers and say that agriculture is a strategic branch and that this country and how it cares about this economic branch and agricultural producers. I think you've failed their trust this time, and hopefully, very soon in the election, they'll assess and qualify in the right way. I also want to remind you this time, although on several occasions during these two, three years, that just before the election, when you received this authority and the citizens' trust, I promised the citizens that the agrarian budget when you came to power would be 400 million euros, meaning somewhere around 40 billion dinars. For all these years, you haven't come anywhere near that amount, but the subsidy amounts have mostly moved somewhere below 20 billion dinars or around 20 billion dinars this time. The truth is, I mean, those funds that were allocated from the budget in Section 19, increased by about 500 million dinars, but they don't qualify in this review as EC 45. Therefore, you cannot even say that subsidies have been increased, even though such information has been announced that the budget rebalancing has entered the assembly procedure, but it is true that the way it was designed and that tomorrow the auditor will evaluate. I hope that total amount of subsidies is reduced. It was exactly the expectations of the agricultural producers that were different and three days ago we had protests of raspberries, and before I know how many, also protests of raspberries, and I'm going to say a little later what raspberries in this country mean and whether this government and the Ministry of Agriculture should have the strength to declare that fruit culture, even strategically compared to how much foreign exchange income is generated precisely from the sale and production and sale of raspberries. First of all, I want to tell the citizens that with the policy that this government is leading in the agrarian industry we have a permanent reduction in agricultural production, primarily the volume of agricultural production, and this is the place where we make much more foreign exchange income than the sale of agricultural products, we tap into the place, we have some small increases in that export, which means that this is an extremely vital sector, an economic sector, and that if we were to be helped in the right way, at least roughly how agriculture is being helped in countries that are in transition, in countries that are able to run for EU accession, as we may hope to be already from tomorrow. Agricultural production in this country would be far more high quality, far more extensive, and this country would have far greater foreign resources coming from agricultural exports. Certainly agricultural production is under significant influence by atmospheric conditions, primarily plant production, so in this year we have a marked decrease in the volume of corn production even though more than two percent of the area was sown than in 2010, the estimated total production will be about six million and 300 tonnes, which represents a lack of corn production by about 13-15% compared to last year. As for soy, it was sown by about 14% less than in 2010 and decreased production by over 20%, about 23.1%. Furthermore, sugar tail is also sown on smaller surfaces than last year, by about 9%, approximately a decrease in production by about 10%. These data I present are absolutely credible and are from the September 2011 Chamber of Commerce report. So you don't question the credibility of this data. Also, I want to point out here how irresponsible the relationship is towards organic agricultural production, which is increasingly significant on the world market, means organic organic organic products are 50- 100%, and some are even over 100% higher at cost than in conventional production, that in our country where we have opportunities and resources is currently under organic agricultural production of about 2,876 hectares, and 90% of the agricultural products produced are exported to the EU, USA and Japan market and where all around 80 agricultural producers are engaged in this production, certainly with an incentive of only 10 million dinars, as much as they are allocated to organic agricultural production is impossible and could be designed more than that, but that this government has a more responsible relationship to agricultural production, then those areas should certainly be at least equidistant, and objectively they could be. As vital as this sector is, I would also like to point out that, primarily, agricultural producers and processors have achieved this, so in seven months, it means from January to July of this year, that exporting agricultural products to markets outside our country has generated a foreign exchange income of two billion 147 million dollars. Imports in the same period of agricultural products are at 662 million dollars. So, a net surplus in external trade of $822 million has been achieved. This for this economy and for this state of affairs in the country and how significant it is, but having a more serious relationship with this sector could at least have been doubled in the first six months. What are the main items in exports to world markets or should I say to the markets in the environment and in the European ones, they are primarily cereals. Unfortunately, here someone has already noted that we export most of the raw grains and total exports account for about 30%, then makes fruit and vegetables with about 23%, sugar with about five percent, and we know that we have the right to preferential exports to the EU, about 180 thousand tonnes of sugar. But what is devastating is that in the total exports of agricultural products, meat is only two percent, and once Serbia has exported 50 and 70 tonnes of meat and different meat products to the European and world markets, and now we can't even have 1,000 tonnes of junk meat, and we have preferential exports of over 8,000 tonnes, we can't even export 1,000 tonnes to the European market. As for fruit and vegetables, as far as the raspberries are concerned, I'd like to say that the first genus of raspberries this year is about 85,000 tonnes, and the total of raspberries exports are in this foreign exchange income, or the foreign currency is exported somewhere around $96 million. So, just from the raspberries, frozen, 63, 64 million dollars and the raspberries, frozen 32.6 million. I think that the raspberries deserve to be met if they come out and meet the demands of various parties through the budget, then these serious agricultural producers have the right to ask for help in the price that is lower on the world market than it has been in the past, but at least to cover the total costs and hope by coming serious authorities, and I think that it will be the party to which I belong, that a different relationship will also have to the total agricultural production where it will absolutely be a strategic branch, and also to the raspberries and all other workers who contribute significant foreign income in this sector, the agricultural sector. What I want to say for a little while, and again by irresponsible policy has been brought to our agriculture, which is that it is unprepared, completely unprepared for obtaining candidate status in the EU where we are given the opportunity, i.e. where it is possible for agricultural producers and for the use of access funds, and in particular those fifth components relating to rural development, means to help agricultural producers in these rural areas, where we simply didn't educate agricultural producers, or create many other technical preconditions so that tomorrow, when we get that status, we could use all those incentives, which, the estimates should be up to 200m euros. Also, our agriculture is not prepared for the state and situation that awaits us in 2014, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement expires and customs duties are lifted on agricultural products where only seasonal and total customs duties will remain at 2.5-3%. Our agricultural production is completely uncompetitive or mostly uncompetitive with agricultural production in the EU. We will have a flood of various agricultural products in our country and it will be difficult for our agricultural producers to defend themselves, and only by being irresponsible did we not make the effort, first of all, when we negotiate to keep that deadline or some customs duty, or that deadline different or in extreme terms, which could have been done even more, to encourage our agricultural producers to be competitive on that market. In the end, given the need for more colleagues from my constituency group to speak, I want to ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, this year the government has made a decision, i.e. on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture to buy out 100,000 tonnes of wheat for the Republic goods reserves, and that was a very good move and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, to help in the harvest campaign for agricultural producers and to in some way stabilise the market with a price of 20 dinars from VAT and it was also welcomed on the Committee on Agriculture. However, what is unclear, in this budget rebalancing, you have not shown anywhere from which the funds have been paid for, as it is said, I sincerely hope that all those from whom the wheat has been taken, i.e. Those who sold to the stock reserves, that the debts were settled. That's the amount of 2 billion dinars. The budget did not provide for this in a position in the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is not also foreseen in the division of the Republic Stock Reserves which were then at the Ministry of Trade, so I ask you, for the sake of the public, for the sake of us MPs and for all to explain and to say from which funds were paid, the bought-out price of wheat for the republican commodity reserves, whether these are budget reserves. In the end, you know best. What I and my colleagues observed on the Committee on Agriculture is that there is no position in this proposal for rebalancing that clearly indicates the funds spent to buy out wheat for the Republic's commodity reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61750	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61751	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will also use this discussion to say a few sentences and express my satisfaction with the culture budget, but before I say a few words and a little more sentences, I cannot comment on the recent discussion of my colleagues from the DSS, inappropriate expression, simply because in this House we have long become used to a decent, civilized way of discussing the laws with all political differences and party differences. It just seems to me that kind of speech deserves a warning, but what to do is someone who doesn't have strong arguments uses serious insults. I would now return to the main topic of my discussion, and in terms of culture, this rebalance and expression of satisfaction, because culture is richer by 303 million dinars, thanks to this rebalancing. It is usually expected to confirm the folk – where it is thin, it is torn or torn off. Culture takes up this one smaller percentage, slightly less than 1% of the budget, so it could always be expected, and I have to say that it was a practice and in previous years, that exactly in these portfolios the funds are being reduced. This time something different happened and something quite positive. That's one positive thing. The second positive thing, these 303 million for culture is not from other resors, but one of the first positive effects of uniting ministries. Since this is now the Ministry of Information Society, Culture and Information, Communication, they have not achieved one part of the projects and thanks to this internal redistribution of cultures has gone well. Compared to some five billion and 800, after this rebalance, which I hope we will adopt, when it comes to culture, we have the funds of 6,116,959.000 dinars. Here I could finish my discussion and say that it's very nice, that it's very good, that it's one of the better budgets that culture has had in the past ten years, the only thing that bothers me a little is the explanation given to this budget that says that all these funds are intended for culture in the economic classification of 424 specialized services, somewhere right after the government adopted budget rebalancing the Ministry of Culture had a press conference. It talked about investment for the film, so it wouldn't be wrong to interpret that most of the funds that will be rebalanced to culture will go to this very position and that for the film. I'd like to say that this economic classification into film, for international co-operation, for events, so 144 million will go to that 424 position, not 303. What is commendable is that the rest of the funds, for example, 67 million, will be transferred to the authorities of local self-government, for libraries, for the homes of culture, for the protection of cultural heritage. Also, 81 million dinars for investment National Museum, National Theatre or the scene "Raša Pavlovic", the Museum of Contemporary Art, and I immediately say that it will go to the economic classification of 511 and praise the Ministry of Culture for finally completing some capital projects in culture such as the recent National Library. The issue is the day of the equipment delivery, when the Yugoslav Cinematheque will open. Now, thanks to these rebalancing funds, there will be work at the National Museum. What I also find also very positive and good and points to the way it should be done, is co-operation between culture and tourism, which is the best example of Lepenski Vir and precisely this archaeological site in which tourism and culture have been invested jointly. This is one of the best budgets, but I have to say, we haven't reached that 2006 budget that was over seven billion dinars yet. It is important to fix the RTS then with those 500 million that are from the culture budget and informing us to "Eurosong", but all we have to say is that these targeted 1% of the republican budget remains some hope and belief that when we reach that 1%, when it comes to culture, we will really be able to be satisfied with the funds for this area, but what we should also say is that at the Ministry of Culture, on users or institutions, the institutions, it is now very fast and efficient to organise these funds by the end of the year and spend because it is sometimes a problem. The prime minister talked about it, especially when it comes to investment, that because of the poor organisation or different other problems, the resources are not realised by the end of the year and in this sense I would call on my fellow Members to make our contribution as quickly as possible to adopt this budget rebalance as possible so that we would leave a little more time for the budget to be able to realise this budget in this sense and to say that MEPs will certainly vote for this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61752	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61753	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the budget rebalance in this form in which today is before us primarily depicts a catastrophic economic policy that has been being led in Serbia in recent years. What concerns is that even this budget rebalance is no turning point. As before, the most important reason for budget rebalancing is the agreement with the IMF. Under the same agreement, which Prime Minister Cvetkovic said was pleased to remind us, the deficit this year will be increased from the initially planned 4.1% of gross domestic product to as much as 4.5%. Indeed, Mr. Cvetkovic, we cannot be satisfied and we really do not see what a pleasure it is to remind us of such an agreement that increases the deficit. You boast about reducing public spending, and the budget deficit is still growing. What's being financed by the deficit? You say -- the deficit represents tools that all governments apply when there's a crisis. Did you mean that the deficit might finance economic growth? Well, economic growth is shrinking, and that's exactly what's going on in the budget. That's what you're saying. What's being financed by the deficit? First of all, the deficits finance the commitments made on the basis of earlier credit borrowings. On the other hand, expensive loans are taken to cover the same deficit. The last in a row was the broadcasting of a billion-dollar euro bond at an interest rate of 7.5% and so on. Is there an end to this, that is, how long can the budget withstand additional borrowings? If Article 3 is looked at, The draft bill on amending budgets, the list of loans the government was taking is really impressive and interest is amazing. Can we talk about a thrifty government if individual interest rates move above 8%, 8.5%? Can we say it's the government's responsibility? No, I don't. In this case, can we say that the government is socially responsible? Nor is it, because taking credit under such conditions, with such interest rates, means reducing the space for other appropriations from the budget. In the success of looking at reducing the share of public consumption, we could only talk if income increases occur, which is not the case here. Indeed, the government has a big problem explaining the benefits of Serbia's citizens from increasing the budget deficit, if everyone is well-known for the fact that the deficit in the state register actually pays at the end of Serbia's citizens. The government has once again missed a chance to change the situation, make a turn. But it's nothing new. We're talking about those missed chances after every budget, after every budget rebalance. In the absence of political courage, the government is already holding on to its safe terrain that has been trackling the IMF. The budget rebalancing does not bring a programme of special assistance to the economy. Although, Mr. Cvetkovic, you spoke of it in your opening statement, but something that will be in the future. When? We don't know. When we listened to Prime Minister Cvetkovic for a moment, it was the impression that it was not the government at the end of its term, but, above all, the government at the beginning of the mandate, which is determined to deal with all the problems that plagued the economy and society. However, this government is at the end of the mandate. This is the government that has missed four years of chance to reduce the number of unemployed, to strengthen domestic economy, to improve competitiveness in the local market. You are announcing support for the export segments of the Serbian economy, the provision of favourable credit lines to the economy, while on the other hand, the same government does not solve the problem of the country's huge debt to the economy. What about a government that doesn't settle its debts, but that's why it helps powerful and large-privileged enterprises? Isn't it just discrimination? I'll give you just a few examples from practice. Through the Fund for the Development of Tax Bonds, the money of poor Serbian citizens, financial assistance is, for example, "Delta agrar" Miroslav Miskovic. Based on data from our colleague Ivan Minić in the last two years, the Republic Development Fund has approved four favourable loans worth about seven million euros, with an interest rate many want in this country, but unfortunately it is inaccessible for them, from 2.5% to 4.5%. However, it is not only the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia that helped this company, but also the state Agency for Insurance and Export Finance. The documentation from the Treasury Administration, since the Agency did not want to grant us documentation, clearly shows that in the past two years the Agency has paid about 3.5m euros at the expense of the company Delta Agrar. After this, we can agree that no one can say that the state has not helped the domestic economy. But the question arises – who was she helping? She helped selected and privileged companies, and to remind you of only one segment, of the raspberries, for example, they've been protesting for several months, asking for a higher ransom price. Perhaps the Fund and the Agency would be good indicators why these parallel state bodies should be abolished, since they are already doing a job that is in the power of the resolution ministers, and perhaps there is savings. That's where the money needed by the economy lies. However, we want to look back at another segment. What to say about the government, about its policy, if most Serbian citizens barely survive, and it designs various programmes to help this poor population, and the biggest benefit from these programmes is from foreign banks. Of course, foreign banks are nurtured by this regime and are attracted to this area by the destruction, that is, the closure of most Serbian banks. If the government has already decided on subsidized housing loans, why hasn't it decided to place these loans exclusively through domestic banks, so help small and domestic banks? But no. Also, Minister Dulic, for example, said at the end of 2010, that foreign investors who are ready to offer quality apartments at the same prices the state offers will come to Serbia very soon. He said then – they are asking for quick authorisation and I am sure that for such large investors local self-government can guarantee it. Why hasn't anyone in the government advocated domestic enterprises? Why can't they get their licenses quick? No, it's a discriminatory policy against domestic companies. A true increase in standards cannot have a foothold in artificially heated consumption, but only in investment and the opening of new rands. Why isn't this government in the interest of protecting domestic production, domestic economy, agriculture? By abolishing customs duties, i.e. by applying the Transition Trade Agreement, the country lost several hundred million euros, only in this year based on customs duties of around 130 million. Further destruction of our agriculture is yet to be expected. Also, there should be anticipation of agriculture based on the CEFTA agreement. Next year, this import of agricultural products from Croatia under the CEFTA agreement will be free of customs duties. Besides, it was done with other CEFTA members. Simply, the state loses, and our domestic producers, or domestic production, are exposed to one extremely unfair competition. When you say – will you help the economy, the question of what economy is raised? Surely not to the Serbian economy. When you say so, we will help Serbian agriculture, agrarian. What farm? Does EU agriculture? When you say so, you will help the people. What population? Do the population of the Serbian state. These are some of the reasons, and my colleagues will talk about others, which is why the SRS cannot possibly support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61754	Mr. Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61755	Dear People's MPs, your disembarkation was mostly political. I tried to listen to the part about the budget and eventually answer it, but I have no intention of answering the political part, because you have the right to do it. But what you were saying about the budget, to a good degree, I don't think you understood. I'll give you one example. You claim that the deposit was created as a result of the coverage of previously committed loans. So it's completely incorrect, not accountingly or essentially, and that's why I just don't want to go into other details. As for the Development Fund, let me just say, you've heard that the idea presented here today is to create a different institution, with more transparency, which will be called development banks in this context will also determine the fate of the Development Fund in the coming months ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61756	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. The word is made by MP Milan Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61757	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this budget rebalance for 2011 absolutely needs to be supported because it preserves the standard of our citizens, especially those most vulnerable, because it places funds in the most important infrastructure projects, because it does not burden the additional economy, because it does not endanger macroeconomic stability, because it holds a deficit in legally envisaged frameworks. When we passed the Budget Law at the end of last year, we defined it based on some projections of planned expenditure and revenue. Of course, economics is not an exact science like mathematics that we can predict every size completely, so changes happen in the meantime. It is the practice of most countries in the world, including Serbia, to make some adjustments, in line with new circumstances. What are the new circumstances in Serbia, and why are we discussing rebalancing today? We've had increased issuances compared to the ones planned for salaries of about nine billion dinars, for pensions of about seven billion dinars, for social contributions of 3.3 billion dinars. In addition, this year provided funds for the payment of jubilee awards for 2008, 2009 and 2010, which were the requirements of a number of trade unions and should be commended. So it's about receipts that concern a large number of our citizens and their families. It's about millions of people. And if someone is against this rebalancing, they need to make it clear whether or not it's against additional releases for these purposes. These funds are there because they directly protect the standard of our citizens. Inflation in the second half of the year is no longer a problem in Serbia. We put a subject there at least temporarily ad act. We even had a deflation during the summer months. But at the beginning of the year, we all remember that inflation was higher than we planned and therefore it was necessary to preserve the standard of our citizens, pensioners, those who receive social protection, our workers, therefore, lower and middle-class of this society. As a result, it was logical to pay, pensions and social contributions to increase inflation, in order to preserve purchasing power and preserve the standard of citizens. It's not just justified from a moral point of view. That's justified from the economic point of view. One of the basic postulates of economic science is that when the crisis is in place, when the slow recovery, when the recession is, should be increased to a moderate extent, in a moderate amount of consumption, because this stimulates the economy. That's what the Fiscal Council told us, that's what the IMF told us, which is, after all, the basis of every economic literature. Too bad we didn't run an anticyclical policy and in the days of the previous governments, it would certainly be easier for us now. The government has also shown through the proposal for the rebalancing process that the overall long-term interests of society and in the pre-election year do not increase expenditure, but is looking for ways to reduce existing expenditures. Therefore, expenditure is decreasing, but what is very important and what is worth pointing out, the most important infrastructure projects like Corridor 10, will not be compromised. To me, as a Kragujevac, it is very important that no joint investment with the Fiat will be compromised, as well as the end of the Kragujevac-Batocin highway, because it is something that will certainly improve the performance of our entire economy and especially our exports. On the other hand, forecasts of economic growth in Europe for this year are certainly different now than they were at the end of last year. We have a case of Italy and Germany, where in the second quarter of this year, economic growth practically does not exist, from 0.1 to 0.3%. Because of this, and especially given our closer and wider environment, it is impossible to expect Serbia, from our economy, to jump three steps, while our entire environment stagnates. We have a respectable growth of 2%. Unfortunately, it's less than we predicted, and we predicted about 3%, but it's a reality and it could hardly have been better. Due to lower growth than anticipated, among other things, we have had fewer incomes from value added tax, but, to a large extent, and due to the growth of VAT vomiting. In fact, export growth in the first seven months is 21.6%, so more than one fifth compared to last year. Since our fiscal system stimulates exports through VAT refund for exported goods, the nominal VAT return growth is around 29.5% and this has also affected VAT reduction. Now, less money comes from value added tax, and what can the government do? Since it's not economically justified to cut costs, we've already said that, then one option is to raise taxes. If we can raise the value added tax to 20%, let's say, and thus fill the state register further. However, this is irresponsible because it would be an additional burden on the economy. On the other hand, we are left with another option, which is an increase in the fiscal deficit. This increase totals 13 billion dinars and is not large, around 0.4% of gross domestic product, totaling 4.5, which is less than most countries in Europe. That it is justified tells us the Budgetary System Act that we adopted last year, which is currently predicting these increases, but also the Fiscal Council and the IMF. The prime minister and fellow MPs have already shown that the budget will have fewer revenues and due to the fact that the Law on the financing of local self-government, since the income tax on citizens that was shared between the Republic and local self-government by 1 October this year compared to 60:40, is now divided by 20:80 and these are significantly higher funds in the case of local self-government and this comes out about 10 billion euros, 10 and a half billion dinars minus two and a half billion transfers, which is about eight billion less in the republican budget and more in the local budgets. That's good, and that's something I'd support. We must stress here our expectation that local self-government spends first and foremost on capital investments, so as not to increase general current consumption in Serbia. Since this was today an opportunity to point out the various economic parameters that have been criticised by the government, I'm going to say something that are facts, statistically confirmed. If I'm wrong, correct me. Since debt has been mentioned, it will also be less than 44% after the sale of the Eurobond, and we have set the upper limit to 45%, which is praised by top world economists as a rare example to follow. The participation of public consumption in the gross domestic product was 45.5% in 2010, and in 2011, there will be 43.8%, so we relax the economy and that is explained by my colleague Aleksandar Vlahovic in one professorial way. The nominal appreciation of course is 4% and real 14%. So the dinar is no longer unstable, the dinar is strong, and that's a trend all this year and at the end of last year. We have a slight growth in the economy this year and that's a statistical fact. In the second half of the year, we had very low inflation. Indemnity is among the smallest in the environment. The sale of Eurobonds - compliments to our country that speak of the trust Europe has with us. The course is stable. Exports are growing, bigger than in 2008, we heard from the prime minister today. I know all this is causing a lot of skepticism, and I know there are a lot of problems in Serbia. I live with those people who are in Serbia in trouble. There's a lot of unemployment still. But tell me, is this false data and tell me which government did more reforms during the global economic crisis than this government did, based on this data? Something that has rarely been heard in this hall these days and previous years, I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Cvetkovic and the entire government on the excellent results of leading economic policy, during the most difficult period of the modern world economy. That's really commendable. So, Prime Minister, you have our trust. Rebalance should be supported. It preserves the standard of the most vulnerable citizens, it holds the deficit in the planned frameworks, it does not burden the additional economy and it places funds in the most important infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61758	National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61759	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, I really have nothing to congratulate you on. You tell us, at first, when are we going to adopt the real budget of the Republic of Serbia? This is the budget, the rebalance for lying to the people. This country needs a real document, based on which we will be able to finance all needs and meet all obligations. In this budget, i.e. its proposal for rebalancing, you also foresee the growth of wages and pension growth, new investments, new jobs and better social protection. But since 2008, since you run the government of the Republic of Serbia, in this country only the public debt has increased, prices have increased, unemployment has increased and the poverty rate has increased. We all know here that both the budget and budget rebalance is an expression of the government's economic policy. What is the economic policy of this government? Folding from hollow to empty. There are a series of numbers, classifications and headings here, and when the proposal for this rebalancing is summed up, it envisions a billion- and 400m-euro deficit. So it's another big con from the Serbian citizens. In this room, when you represented your new cabinet, during the government's reconstruction, you promised a stable financial situation, economic support, a stable exchange rate and low inflation. Today we have heard that the deficit is large, but that it is slowly shrinking and that we can expect a surplus in the foreseeable period. That surplus will obviously be used to repay all these loans that you've raised in these four years. As I recall, the surplus was only in one period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and I'm sure you know it well. You also promised that Serbia is a leader in attracting foreign investors. So all these reports we've been getting, that we're the last in the region by all parameters, we can throw that in the water and trust you on the word. You said Serbia has a moderate period of recovery. This would mean that in this country citizens live great, that there is one general well-being, happiness and satisfaction. But trust me, Mr. Cvetkovic, which one of my colleagues says, in the morning, when the citizens open the fridge, they only see bars. In fact, what did you reformers, you licensed European Union promoters for Serbia, manage to do in the previous period? The sale of assets, endless borrowing and heavy spending and then who you make an illusion of a better life. The only thing a clear citizen, every citizen of this country, is that this government is incompetent, inefficient and irresponsible. Nothing can turn into anything, Mr. Cvetkovic. You're a problem. You first got involved in the problem, and then the problem got mixed up in you. You were the Prime Minister first, then you accepted yourself as head of the Ministry of Finance. It's practically the first time since you took that role we've had a chance to talk to you about the area and the resources you run. Indeed, I'm impressed by your energy that for four years you've been looking for creative solutions, but the problem is that you obviously don't find them. This document represents a classic repacking of the state register. It's like wood for a fence. Billions are being transferred from one side to the other, from this one to the next year. The gap in the cash register is 22 billion more than anticipated. That's over 200m euros. Nevertheless, you, without getting excited or blushing, are announcing an increase in wages, pensions and social benefits. You say there will be no delay or suspension of any significant infrastructure project, and the savings on capital expenditure will be eight billion and 400 million dinars. How, Mr. Cvetkovic? It is absolutely not clear to us that in a poor country, with a wasteful state apparatus, such a thing can be implemented. In real life, people don't get anything so fast, not even on a short period of time will fix and improve and there's really no reason, none of them exist, for that carefree look on your face and the casual attitude you're demonstrating here today. Because the average income of citizens in this country is 38,400 dinars, and the consumer basket is 56,000 dinars. The price growth rate in July this year increased by 12% compared to July of the previous year and the prices of basic food products by more than 30%. If not, here, you deny me. Tell me, what was the price of flour in 2008, and what was it today? What was the price of sugar, oil or any food product, so let's make a comparison and figure out how much compared to that year, and how much did the price increase last year? What about the promises that money will not be spent on current consumption, but on investment in infrastructure, which should provide new jobs, higher wages and higher pensions? When we compare the proposal for this budget rebalance with the budget, it is evident immediately that the revenues have failed significantly. Why? I really don't understand it from your morning presentation, because you said it yourself – thanks to the Law on the financing of local self-government and thanks to the growth that we predicted to 3% has not been achieved, but is a third smaller and is 2%. With your rebalancing, you predict saving in infrastructure by changing the dynamics of payments, because it is the work that needs to be charged next year. Next year's in two and a half months, Mr. Cvetkovic. It passed on October 30th, November, December, the first January will be very soon. The economy is owed more than a billion euros, the country is the biggest debtor, and the government is trying to re-route the deficit by transferring payments for the works carried out in 2012. Every company goes to jail for such a thing, but it doesn't seem to interest you, because you are aware that you will win the election ceiling 15%, that you will not be headed by the government, nor will you lead this country, and then you will transfer it to another government, that it is fighting and solving all these problems. Let's get this paid off by December, and then we'll see what we do next year. Where's the savings you're trying to explain to us here today? You iron a mere ten billion dinars, which was created by the adoption of the Law on the financing of local self-government. We've heard different discussions here, that local self-government is going to get something. I really agree and I support that local self-government gets a much bigger amount of money than it has ever been, but what is it going to lose, Mr. Cvetkovic? Will he lose funds for all local projects from the national investment plan? Someone mentioned earlier that my city, from which I come, will receive Cacak on the basis of this proposal 100 million more. Yes, but for these four years over 500 million dinars have been cut off from the city of Cačka based on transfer funds. That's why we filed criminal charges against you and the former finance minister, but the reformed judiciary, unfortunately, has not yet responded to that. This way of funding local self-government only by the end of this year in the last quarter creates a budget deficit of ten billion, increasing. How much is he going to be in next year? If we're looking at this projection, it means at least 40 billion dinars. I don't really know where you think you're gonna make that money and cover all those expenses. You're saying that the government's motive for proposing such a rebalancing is that it should allow for more economic activity and employment in the country. It's the biggest scam, because just for current expenditure, employees are projected to be out of 7.5 billion dinars. But for which employees? Where do these people work? Has the number of public sector employees been reduced? Every day we watch competitions that discuss individual ministries and hire new people. This money will eat the parasitic infrastructure that, unfortunately, we create here every day by adopting laws that predict new directorates, new agencies, new specialised bodies. Have you read maybe in the paper what's going on in "Nuclear Wastes of Serbia" or something like that, what's the name of that company? The director bought a car park of hundreds of thousands of euros, put it on the registration of its city's name from which it comes, to remind him that he knows where it came from. He'll run away in that car when there's a nuclear strike on Serbia. Is that what it takes to spend millions, tens of millions of dinars that citizens single out? Also, you say - dopings have been increased for the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and is seven billion and 200 million. I'm sorry they're not PUPS representatives here, to explain this pre-election promise that the average pension will be 70% of the average profit. The average pension in Serbia today is 23,000 dinars, which means, respected Serbian citizens, your increase will be 300 dinars on average. You can buy two kilos of bananas, some flour, some oil, but that's not what you can live on. I agree that pensions should be bigger, but all the adjustments you made in 2011 have been eaten by inflation. What do we have as an answer on the other side? Krkobic invites you to come out on the line. Is this life or is it athletic? Are we dealing with some races or do we really need to solve the problems of a million-dollar living who is just living off that church? I saw three hundred of them this morning in front of the post office at half past eight waiting in line, who knows when they came to take their pension. You said the rebalancing was in line with the IMF deal, but I'm really afraid it's out of line with common sense. Because, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, when we were together in the government, taught us to increase income by expanding the tax base, which the tax rate is reduced and then filling the budget. And we seem to have applied some other methods now, that is, your government. So you took from the IMF for each case a billion euros, so you sold Eurobonds worth a billion dollars and you say -- that doesn't go into public debt because those funds are not spent. Well, we know it'll be spent in the campaign. That's why this country owes the god of incense. The result of this government policy and such a Prime Minister is that Serbia is a colonised state. You for reforms and fundamental changes should seek support from your people, support for the citizens of Serbia, and not for the quasireform elite whose head you are headed. You've been entrusted by the citizens these four years to solve their problems, not to despair that you're feeling a lot of pain while you're doing it. It cannot, it is not a solution and there is no answer to the real needs of Serbian citizens. Apparently, you've all been swallowed by the chair, the citizens are getting harder to live, the state is falling apart, and you don't seem to have any solution for that, and you're not getting too excited. Apparently, the comedy that started with your choice of Prime Minister is slowly turning into a drama, and I think it's better if we end it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61760	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61761	I just wanted to give information about the wheat, because I didn't have it at the time. So the wheat is paid in whole, paid in 700 million with a direct distribution of the stock reserves and 1.3 billion of its own income. Look at section 56, not 56k.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61762	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a budget in front of us, which, in fact, is being extorted by one poor economic policy, a policy that has been led back years and is based on a model of economic growth that is unsustainable. The Prime Minister himself said, during the government's reconstruction, that it must change the model of economic growth. Unfortunately, in these six, seven months, nothing has been done to change this model of economic growth, which is based on borrowings and the sale of what was acquired decades ago, to change, to turn to production, to industry, to turn to exports. It's all the result of cowardice, I'd say, these governments, unpreparedness to go into the serious reforms we need in the pre-election year. All of what the SNS stood for in the previous months, and these are some extraordinary choices that would give one new government four years the opportunity to change a policy that is devastating, I would say in a decade behind us, they prove to be beyond what is necessary, but there was not enough understanding, political will and wisdom to do all that. As far as the budget rebalance itself is concerned, I think the deficit, given the size of our budget, is not negligible at all. We are constantly predicting that our budget is about eight billion euros, that Croatia, which is two times smaller, has a double budget, that Czechoslovakia, which is not a much larger country than Serbia, has about 40 billion euros in budget. This shows the economic strength of these countries. If you compare our budget, which is very modest with this deficit of 1.2-1.3 billion euros, that is not a negligible amount at all. If you are aware at this point that we have just been in charge of about a billion euros, the fact is that the policy that was being implemented in the previous decade continues, that we are in a position to have a pre-election budget, a pre-election story, and that we will have to have the consequences of such decisions of this government to pay in the coming year, first of all. The economy in Serbia is in a very difficult situation, the economy is in a difficult situation, citizens are in a very difficult situation. That is what unfortunately I think some government colleagues are ignoring, so they mention some of the excellent results of this government, and they forget that the European Commission said that in the previous year the decline of standards in Serbia is 30%. For a third, the standard of Serbian citizens is worse today than a year ago. These are not the inventions of the opposition MPs, it is a very serious and promising institution to which we must deal seriously. Also, if you will, the standard is significantly compromised in the opinion of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Among the 33 transition countries, when it comes to the economic crisis since 2008, Serbia has been second to hit. We've been through very badly. All that this government has done and everything that boasts in the previous period as measures that have contained the economic crisis in Serbia, I would say is not true, because the data show something quite different. The countries around them knew much better to deal with this crisis, they were much more responsible, they had much more courage, they didn't base their policies on short-term measures, they solved strategic issues, they went into strategic reforms. That's what's been missing from this government since the beginning. So, he arranged for more political entities where everyone was dragged aside and he probably couldn't create a government that was respectable and that could lead a different policy and give more serious results. I think all of us should worry, first of all, about the GDP decline. When, with 3%, which is also modest, since we're moving a little bit from zero, since we have some indicators, above all in industrial production, which is lower than before the coming DOS to power, from 1989, since we don't have any industrial production that's managed to reach a level before this crisis since 2008, all of this should concern us, if we take a GDP structure that's very small and depends on industrial production, if we're aware that exports from GDP are maybe one third, somewhere around 27-30%, the data is changing, but that we are also among the worst-ranking countries in the world. We shouldn't treat this GDP fall so easily. The government had to invest much more in the economy if it wanted any economic growth. There's no development without a 5-6% GDP. All of this is just one simple stagnation. To show how minor that is with GDP from last year, which you reduced from 1.8% to 1%, it would take us 80 years to increase GDP, which would mean that we would probably get double the salary for that period. With wages like this, which are the lowest in the region, I don't think we'd get too far. With an economic growth of 2%, it might take us 40 years to double our standard. It's a very low indicator, first of all, of the failure of this government. I would like to say that the debt made by this government is not negligible because it's about 5-6 billion euros. What's more devastating in the whole story is the fact that two-thirds of that debt went into wages and pensions. (President: Time. ) So, for SNS, this budget is unacceptable and we will have the opportunity to give additional arguments through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61764	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61765	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, this budget is unacceptable and we will not vote for it for any more reason, and I will only mention some. In an exposure to the adoption of the 2011 budget, the prime minister also said the finance minister said it was a development budget, that it was a thrifty budget, a socially responsible budget, fiscal, sustainable, etc. Everything said then doesn't stand. Now I will try, as the prime minister said, not responding to political qualifications, as little as possible to use political qualifications, and to be as much in the financial indicators you've shown through this budget rebalance and what we can find on your websites. Namely, the incomes, or receipts, that you've shown here in the amount of 707 billion dinars converted into euro when compared to 2005, 2006 we're talking about approximately the same indicators. The same are indicators, so our incomes are the same, our expenditures are growing year after year, which increases budget deficits from year to year. It is now at 142 billion levels and is the biggest deficit in Serbia's history. Here, through certain financial indicators that I have downloaded from the Ministry of Finance's website, I'm going to show how the deficits are moving. In 2005, we start at 13 billion, now we have 142 billion. During this government's period, the budget deficit was four billion and 100 million. What are we talking about? We're talking about borrowing the state, spending more than 20-25%, with these budget rebalancing indicators we spend 25% more than we produce. How do we handle all these borrowings? When we talk about fiscal responsibility, a colleague, Stevanovic, pointed to certain aspects of what the SRS economic team has, and this is the problem of the non-payment of certain claims. From who? From the people almost 100%. Who doesn't pay? They don't pay tycoons. We're waiting for this list of hundreds of top defaults and then you'll see who's on that list, who's in the top 15, who's in the top 30. The tycoons you made possible, you gave them everything, and they give you back that way. Who bears the greatest responsibility? Prime Minister. At the same time, the finance minister is now. Under his direct authority is the IRS. He can't tell if he doesn't know he has to leave, and in this case he does. The moment a list of hundreds of top non-payers is released, he has to resign and go to the DA's office to make a statement, he has to answer. He and the entire set of those who are responsible for this condition. If we are talking about four billion and 100 million deficits, we must also mention a balance of payments deficit that is somewhere around 13-14 billion, perhaps even 15 billion, euros for these four years of government. Stock exchange deficits somewhere around 23-24 billion euros. They're indicators. Now that we're talking about structure. The best indicator you've shown here speaks of the state of our economy. We can see that through paying the VAT. We have a rebalancing indicator of 341 billion, of which VAT in the country 104 billion, VAT from imports of 233 billion. Here's where we really are, where our business is. This is the best indicator. One-third we produce, two-thirds we import. And we're talking about development. Where's the development component? Furthermore, when we talk about the development component by alluding to what we heard from the prime minister, there is one item in the subsidies. This is the item – subsidies in the economy, i.e. subsidies for the economy – three billion 750 million dinars. Yesterday on the Committee on Industry we were considering these indicators, we received data that compared to the 2011 budget is an increase of 550 million. It takes a lot more. Do you see an item of 800 and some billions of three billion and something that is directly pumped through certain projects, through certain programmes, in subsidising certain enterprises, particularly those that are in restructuring. Too little and not enough. That's why we have 400,000 people less in employment, that's what the European Commission told us, we have 933 thousand unemployed from 2001 to 2011, these are indicators that we can see on your website now, you can't hide it anymore. What's the problem? The problem is that you are stubbornly entering certain projects, and there is not a single measure of savings. The opposition, especially the SRS, has repeatedly indicated, do not enter new openings, new agencies, new state institutions, etc. Give it to the economy, the economy will create, it will pump into the budget, and from that budget it will be able to be employed, it will be able to invest far more in the social state of Serbia's citizens, it's the only way, it's all the countries in the world that do it but we don't do it. We don't have any men who left the state administration. They're going through a certain social program, but we're hiring more. A law was passed two years ago limiting the level of employment in the authorities of the administration, and today we have two, three thousand new employees, and those who are on a certain time, those who are under contract of work in various forms, we come up with a sum of between seven and eight thousand people in the state administration. What are we talking about? This executive authority that needs to exercise directly what the Assembly adopted, it does not respect it. Is this then the authority responsible? It's not the government's responsibility and she has to leave the political scene. When we talk about indicators we have to point to a catastrophic state, you see here it's very nice and transparent. Receipts for 2011, 552 billion. Let me remind you. In 2008, eight and a half billion, in 2011, 552 billion, here comes the prime minister and I have to ask the question right now and I've been waiting for him to come here. I have two answers, answers to the parliamentary questions I asked, and one was put in place on 11 April 2011, where I said how much money was achieved in 2008 and 2009, based on the sale of state securities and then I got that data. The next issue was the same on April 11th, how much budget funding was foreseen for the 2011 state debt payment. So that's one item that's synthetically shown and I got the information that the total expenditure on paying off the government debt in 2011 is 410 billion. Since this did not fit in with what can be synthetically seen and analytically seen in the budget, I asked the question on September 30th 2011 and was answered by the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, and again I get the answer to the same question that it is 312 billion. A hundred billion more. What does that mean now? Same question, two data, difference 100 billion. What's the valid data now? I'm saying neither of them, and here I'm going to ask for a few days, I'm going to ask a third question, and I'm going to probably get a completely different answer. In Article 2, you say that the planned incomes based on borrowing are higher in the funds needed to finance the deficits, pay off the debt and purchase of a financial asset of 87 billion 541 million, etc. In this over-indebted budget you collect through the sale of securities of value, through borrowings, you collect and create, as you said on the Finance Committee, one basis for bad years, for bad conditions that can come. Should we take and sell? At which interest rates you sell charters of -12.5; 13, and for three years even at 14.5%. You're hitting your chest, etc. We're in debt, we've sold securities of value at an interest rate of 7.5%. If this is really such a situation, that foreign creditors believe, then why are we paying for these records, cash registers and other securities of value of 12.5% - 13%? Why are we taking long-term? Why do we sell charters from short-term to three, six months, a year, and not long-term, at a long-term rate of 7.5%? I have a few more sentences to say about certain obligations I've made as chairman of the Industry Committee. The state of business in restructuring is catastrophic. You captured them, you put the locks on them, etc., you put them under direct control of the Privatisation Agency. The Privatisation Agency is a crime scene, irresponsible and unconscious work. You were the manager there, you participated in certain actions. You were CEO of Ces Mekon when you were doing certain consulting services at the Privatisation Agency. About eightm euros have been included or included in the company Ces Mekon continues to do so, rather than putting those funds into the budget or the Development Fund and giving and lending companies into restructuring. You brought them to the brink of hopelessness, bankruptcy and the end of all business activities. We spoke with Icarbus representatives last night. They also point to the abuses committed by the company. Who's responsible? It is responsible for the privatisation agency which does not implement the procedure, does not terminate the contracts and is not committed to resuscitation, the work of those companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61766	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61767	Dear People's MP, let me answer these few questions regarding the professional work - why the interest rate of 12, 13, 14% is paid, why not take them in the long term at lower interest rates. The answer is next. When it comes to long-term money in dinars, there is simply no demand for them. In this country, there's little trust in a dinar on a long-term basis and everyone gives a short-term dinar. If you want long-term, then they're giving you a foreign exchange sign, which means you're questioning the exchange rate differences that arise in the long term. It's simply a known fact, it has nothing to do with this government. Second, why is 13.14%, I explained that, and you probably weren't here. Since there's a National Bank through what's called the so-called National Bank. Reop, she collects liquidity surplus from the market for a very short time, two weeks and a salary, there's exactly what the rate is. She was big, so she's slowly coming down. It's about 11% now. In order for the vault to collect dinar papers, since it is the same rate for dinar papers, it must be more favourable than the National Bank since it offers longer deadlines. He can't offer a two-week deadline, then it's pointless. That's why our rates are just so designed to be slightly above the re-op rate. Otherwise, when those records are taken or any credit is withdrawn and then the old loan is returned to it, the country's debt rate is zero. You've got a situation where you pulled one creditor, so you gave it to another. The one you don't have anymore, the other one shows up, so it doesn't affect the increase in duty. That should be in mind. So these are classic operations that are normally done, and we would like to provide really long-term money in dinars through the drug system, but so far, such a situation is on the market that there is no demand for it. We are even thinking about issuing Euro Bonds in dinars and seeing how the European and American markets will react, whether they will be ready to give us dinars and not foreign currency papers and at what cost. It's a matter of the market and it's a special project that needs to be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61768	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that it has already been forgotten that today's debate is on several laws, not just the Budget Rebalance Act. I will take the opportunity, unlike everyone else, to say a few words about the Law on Public Debt which, as far as I can see, the ruling majority for the second time is trying to get through the small door, although these amendments to the laws that you represent as small and irrelevant will have a huge impact on the lives of all Serbian citizens, and above all on the lives of the citizens of Belgrade. The Prime Minister himself spent 50 seconds, I listened carefully to him, speaking of this law, and there is much that is controversial in this law. First of all, I don't think you could have let this law go into procedure by emergency procedure. This is prescribed by Article 167. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which cumulatively prescribes two conditions that must be met in order for some law to be incorporated into the debate by an urgent procedure. The first law says that the urgent procedure lays down laws governing issues and relations resulting from circumstances which could not be predicted, and the law-making process, secondly, could result in adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, safety and work of organs and organisations, etc. It is clear that neither of these two cumulative conditions are met, but what to do is already the will of the ruling majority that we cannot influence. Another big remark is that you are introducing some terms that have not been legal so far and that are certainly not constitutional terms. So far, this law has talked about local self-governments, about the Republic, etc., and now you are introducing a term that says the territorial autonomy unit, so I would ask you, Mr Cvetkovic, to explain what you mean by the territorial autonomy unit because, for example, Jožef Kasa is known for the requirements for territorial autonomy of Hungarians in Vojvodina. Something like that, thank God, there is still no such thing in Serbia, and when you talk about territorial autonomy units, you also talk about local self-government units. I'm guessing you don't have any legal knowledge, that you're an economist by profession, so I have to teach you that the local self-government unit certainly can't be subjected to territorial autonomy. Imagine, for example, that the Lazarec municipality has some kind of autonomy. That would mean he's making a statute, he's making a constitution, he's got his own police force, he's got his own Academy of Sciences, and so on. It's just not the case. I am sure that by malicious interpretation by at least half of your coalition partners this will lead to a number of problems in the application of this, and I am afraid that this could be used later, to say the least – here, territorial autonomy exists, it has long been in laws. This is, as far as I know, the first such law. Now, specific problems and failures that would, I'm sure, result in a number of harmful consequences, which I urge you to withdraw this law on behalf of the Government. You have, as you say, introduced the possibility of long-term borrowing of territorial autonomy units, I assume it is the provinces and units of local self-government, says – by broadcasting long-term securities of value to finance investment development and priority programmes and projects. The second thing, which I don't think should have done, you say - this law exempts such borrowing from the restrictions prescribed for borrowing to finance capital investment projects. We have to go back a little bit in the past a few years, not so far as to see how this law has changed over the years and how these changes in the law so far have left behind. When you passed this law a few years ago, then there was the possibility of borrowing local self-government, but most of all up to 50% in the amount of your own budget revenue in the previous calendar year and that was the maximum amount allowed for borrowing and you represented it as a European standard at that point. Shortly thereafter, in 2008, you know that there was an unnatural coalition in Belgrade between DS, SPS, SPO, G 17, LDP and many others, with a dozen, 15 parties, no one knows exactly how many there are, and unfortunately, Belgrade's citizens have been elected as mayor by Dragan Gilas. At the end of 2008, the level of Belgrade's debt was 20 billion, remember that data, Mr Cvetkovic. Shortly after coming to power, Dragan Gilas started with a policy of borrowing the unholy and by the end of the year, or sometime by mid-2009, so about a year he needed, there was a limit that was about 29 billion dinars at that point, the line of duty. So the City of Belgrade was in charge for a year or so of about 10 billion and when there was a conflict between the protracted debt-free policy forced by Dragan Gilas and the Public Debt Act, it suffered, believed or not, the law. You then changed the Public Debt Act, you added only a few views to this same article 36, so you said the limit is 50% for debt, but to be extremely able, here I will read to us, where it says - it can be extremely owed to over 50% if it's for capital investments. Exceptionally, of course, that borrowing is nothing, because practically there is no session of the City of Belgrade that has not reached a new debt, sometimes a billion, sometimes two, sometimes three, sometimes five, and we have reached a new debt of over 18 billion dinars in a short time in about 18 months, exactly 18 billion and 639 million, if these data are officially accurate, and I will convince you and explain that even these official data are not true, but that this task is incomparably greater. How large is this debt, it shows that by 2.5 times it was increased by this short period of time and that from 33% compared to its own budget revenues in the previous year it came to a level of 77. You continue to claim that the City of Belgrade is not in charge and that it would bring the citizens of Serbia closer to the amount of debt per day, 41 million dinars and some hundreds of thousands of thousands of a day's debt to Belgrade during that period. You see what the previous amendment to the law has brought about and you are now offering an even worse solution, and by the position 6, the new one you are introducing, you say exceptionally that the limitation from Article 2 to 4 of this article does not apply. Therefore, all previous borrowing restrictions that existed now will no longer exist. Up to 50% so far, over 50%, and certainly no more than 15% for the next year's interest and principal. Now you're completely erasing those restrictions. I don't know if you're aware of that, Mr. Cvetkovic, the city of Belgrade is currently in charge of the next 30 years. What will the next authorities do, the next generation? Will they just pay back the debts that are the real power of DS or Dragan Gilas at the moment or will they be in a position to get some money that they make and spend or, God forbid, and they take some credit for some capital investment project. However, this responsibility is not at last either. Why? Because you don't even respect this public debt law. I'll tell you how and how you can check it all out. Neither Dragan Gilas nor the city government respect, as the City Assembly never votes those duties. I'll list you a few bigger ones: for the purchase of 83 trolleybuses, the total value was two billion and 419 million. The Public Procurement Act prescribes that the contracting authority may launch public procurement if it is provided for in the public procurement plan and if funds are provided for in the local self-government budget for the procurement. If no funds are provided, it is a public debt and a decision on public debt must be made by the City Assembly. Of the two billion and 419 million spent on these trolleybuses, the budget provided only one million, that's not even one percent, not even 0.1, that's 0.04% of the total purchase value. But he's vice president of the DS and this is an obvious crime and apparently a violation of the law, which you obviously don't care about. Similarly, it was done with these famous Spanish trams and with the Inexa building, where some of the public enterprises were completely illegally taken a billion dinars, so they had to re-pay the citizens of Belgrade through the collection of services. Now I'm asking you, one more thing I have to add, is that at this point, the deficit of the Belgrade City budget is somewhere around 13 billion dinars, aside from these debts exceeding 51 billion. How is it possible, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you are now completely removing restrictions at the level of borrowing? You gave the Public Property Act some kind of property to the municipalities a few days ago, today you said that this property would be used as collateral, i.e. as a guarantee to banks for cash claims. They'll have now and what to put into stock. It is clear that you are making this law not for the citizens of Serbia, but above all for foreign banks that are now going to lend loans, charge them fatly and have security in properties that are extremely valuable, which you have entrusted with cities and municipalities in Serbia in the previous days. You say the only one, so you don't have any control option, and anyone can be in charge of who has a sufficient number of council members practically for the next thousand years there are no restrictions and there's no only limit, you say, when local self-government doesn't settle that tranche of credit, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia will suspend the transfer of these over-indebted municipalities. I ask you, what will you accomplish? The fact that there will be no payouts, that there will be no more local self-government. Here, Belgrade is in charge of what, 50, 60, 70 billion dinars. When we can't pay off those debts tomorrow, you'll suspend the transfer funds, shut down the city administration, and then what will you do? Will you move the citizens of Belgrade into the surrounding municipalities, share new containers and free electricity connections? You cannot play with citizens of any municipality in Serbia in this way. Another very important thing, in order to be absolutely clear that this task and these changes to the law are being done again only for Belgrade and Dragan Gilas, since no other municipality or city in Serbia needs additional responsibility, because they have not taken advantage of existing legal opportunities, are far from it. I will give you a review that we received from the Public Debt Administration, so from the Ministry of Finance, how much responsibility it is to other cities in Serbia. I'll read, for the sake of time, just for the greatest. For example, Sremska Mitrovica has four million dinars, and Belgrade has 51 billion, so Sudotica has 900 million, Novi Sad, which is the second largest city in Serbia has a billion, and the city of Belgrade has more than 50 billion. The city of Nis 612 million. A niche that is five times smaller than Belgrade is 100 times less in charge. This means that, realistically, every Belgrade citizen is 20 times more in charge on average than the average citizen of Nis. And finally, after I'm done, I'm gonna have to ask you one more thing. Since the city administration, i.e. the mayor, addressed the Ministry of Finance, the Public Debt Administration, by letter dated 20 April 2011, number 40-1852/11 of 10 May 2011 and requested the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the long-term borrowing of the city of Belgrade totalling 17,5 billion dinars. We have tried through the Law on the availability of information of public importance to get the City Administration to answer the question – what is this 17,5 billion for? They won't give us. So as Prime Minister and as finance minister, whose organisation is the Public Debt Administration, I ask and ask that you deliver this document to me as a People's MP, so that the public of Serbia and we as parliament can find out what the additional 17,5 billion are for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61770	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61771	Dear People's MP, I'll try to make a quick comment on what you said. Of course, you and I both know that this isn't the city council, but it's the Republic, so I thank you for the information about the city hall's problems, but I still don't feel competent, or called, nor do I think that's the place to discuss it. As far as your parliamentary question is concerned, I hope you've already instructed him. You'll get an answer in a regular procedure. The essence of this law and where we have, it seems, some discrepancies in a professional attitude, is the question of whether decentralisation has some conconsequences on the other hand? If you're going into a decentralisation system, and that's a decision this assembly adopted, then you're giving a certain right, a certain means, but you're also looking for certain obligations. Therefore, this law goes only in the direction of ending the rounding of what the Law on Public Property has set out, which is now transferring property to different levels of government. The Republic is no longer a gendarme who will follow and own everything, but lower levels of government become owners. Of course, it's one big right. It closes with this financial law regarding responsibilities, but there is also a commitment. These obligations will be under a much stricter monitoring, which will be six times as strict as it has been so far. As you know, instead of six months, they'll have to report every month. Of course, local self-government doesn't have children, but they're just as people as they are here. Each of them needs to take responsibility for his city and the responsibility to keep that city out of some excessive debt and to take possession of his property tomorrow. You can't ask the Republic Assembly to be a tutor to anyone. She can make the rules, and the rules are here. He can monitor. He can, when the task begins, and she sees it based on these monthly reports, to react and say, you can't do it anymore. That's it and nothing more. That's what's proposed in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61772	Mr. Sarovic, you have no right to a replica, but you can within the time of your parliamentary group. You've got 25 minutes left. Do you want to talk? (Imanja Sarovic from the post: I really think she has the right to replication. I think it was a fair debate about this public debt law. I think I have the right to a replica within two minutes. ) It was a correct debate, but you do not have the right to reply. Take those two minutes from your MP group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61773	You haven't been able to tell me what defined you to suggest changing this law. You don't bring the law to stand in a drawer, you bring it to apply in practice. I showed you, since you obviously don't know what you're up to, what the adverse consequences of this previous amendment to the law have led to practice. You just weren't aware. I asked you to see what defined you to go on changing now. You have to answer. What you're saying is that it's going to be six times the monitoring level, that's total nonsense. You don't have any option of limiting local self-government, and what local self-government has been in charge of so far, is no capital project, capital investment. They were in charge of garden painting, of buying transport vehicles and of any other nonsense, which can certainly not be called capital investments. Capital investment is a highway, it's a bridge and it's some big traffic. The creation or purchase of two or three vehicles is not a capital investment for the city of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61774	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have carefully studied the rebalancing, especially this following memo that went along with the rebalancing. I have to admit, we're not clear. Because, on the one hand, and we saw it in the opening words of the prime minister, the finance minister, where it is said that there is an alleged moderate growth of 2%, that GDP is growing, and on the other hand, it is said in the rebalancing memorandum, it is recognised that unemployment in the period from April 2010 to 2011, has increased by several percent, and that it was around 19%, now 22%, that real earnings have fallen by one and some percent. It is also admitted that the external trade deficit is higher, if I'm not mistaken, even by 10%. You here in oral exposure claimed that exports reached a record amount, so that's contradictory data that excludes each other. We believe that, and you have repeatedly said that we use political terms, but to be concrete and to use economic terms other than GDP, all other economic indicators are negative. That, above all, shows unemployment and a profit drop, and that the standard of living is worse in these years than it has been. As for GDP itself, we can say whether it is expressed in current or constant prices. We can claim he's too big, because he's dinarrated against the euro. Let's just stick to this borrowing and your claim that Serbia is not a highly in charge of the country. We claim it's the opposite. That's exactly what they're showing. Not to be our source, but Mr. Mladjan Kovacevic said from the economic profession, simply, if only the current period is taken, the current debt is 23-24 billion euros, the average interest rate at 24 billion euros is 5%. So, just for interest over the next ten years, 17 billion euros will be paid off. Prime Minister, 17 billion euros. Either annually, interest on the external debt of the Republic of Serbia, public, private or whatever you want, goes 1.7 billion euros. These are huge figures, and these are figures that are comparable to 25% of budget revenue. Serbia is not a medium-indebted country, Serbia has a major problem that will explode and a situation like that in Hungary will occur, that the government and society do not know what to do with a huge external debt, which in fact destroys the economy. Of course, we believe that you could have applied many economic measures that would have prevented that growth by galloping the growth of external debt. We believe that within the framework of the budget, within the framework of tax laws and within your jurisdiction, as prime minister, you could have introduced, as your Spanish colleague, in fact a Spanish colleague, Mrs. Finance, a tax on the richest parts of the population. It would be one transition tax that would be over a year – two, just as your Hungarian colleague Orban did. We think that this particular deficit that we're concerned about, which is bigger and bigger, would be reduced that way. However, there is obviously neither economic nor political courage, because nothing has been done. We just got today's promises that a development bank will be created, that those who owe the tax will be forced to pay. However, we have not yet seen what your State Secretary, Mr. Djidic, has said, that the Tax Act will change and that we will see who are the biggest taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia, because a list of them is mentioned a hundred and they owe 3.5 billion euros in total. These are some guidelines that are realistic in terms of reducing budget deficits, which is growing and higher. We're also worried about us and we're against it, and as a party, and as people who are serious about this job, we're against this IMF glorging. You said today in your oral presentation that it was wonderful, Malten, that you were too pleased to conclude a new arrangement with the IMF. We think it's disastrous for our country, for our economy, for our society, because simply, here, a respected colleague quoted some Nobel laureates, we're going to quote Mr. Privic and say that no crisis in any country, no transition, no one, is solved with the help of the IMF, even, moreover, they're all deepened and there's been an economic collapse in Argentina, etc. It's already known cases. In addition to this claim, I would like to point out only one thesis of the gentleman who is in fact leading economic policy in this country, and this is Mr Bogdan Lisowic, representative of the IMF in the Republic of Serbia. He argues that it is a wonderful situation in the economy of the Republic of Serbia and that it is the best part of the banking sector. Even an incredible claim that the margins, which are huge, high in the Republic of Serbia, do not actually lead to higher revenues in the sector. I am now telling you, responsibly, that this growth in GDP, which you are calling on, comes from interest, from these incomes based on the parasitic and interest rates of the foreign banking sector in the Republic of Serbia, namely the banking sector from the EU, which has two thirds or a monopoly on the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. That's the main problem of our economy. Not the main problem of pensions, not the main problem of subsidies or deficits, but the monopoly of foreign banks on the Republic of Serbia's market. Please, we listen from the authorities, from the governor, from the representatives, that these banks allegedly have nothing to do with the home banks in Western Europe, because they are legal entities operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. However, you will admit as an economist that this is a pointless issue, because these are banks that are owned by Western European parent banks. In that sense, and I will end it, you have to show some kind of economic and political courage, that the burden of the crisis that you've been talking about today, that there will be another wave of crisis, to those who have the most money and who have a monopoly position in the Republic of Serbia, which is foreign banks. That is our constructive criticism of this budget, which we will continue in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61776	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the infamous end of the story today in the Assembly practically appeared in 2010, when, of course, with the blessing of the inevitable IMF, the preparations for the sale of Telekom Srbija began, and when the attempt to sell this giant failed, and, of course, the appetites of this complex government increased, it was clear that the current deficit in the budget would be further deepened. Of course, the only solution that I have in such situations is to resort to new obligations with domestic and foreign creditors, and this recent issue of a 750m-euro government bond mission, for the first time on the European market, is certainly done with the blessing of the IMF, but it is not announced who will make everything and at what rate, thanks to these euro bonds, to get rich. And who else would it be over the back of Serbia's citizens. Of course, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's thesis and his closest associates, that the IMF is expected to play a supervisory and control role, as well as that co-operation with the financial institution sends some positive signal to foreign creditors and investors that their investments in Serbia are secure, even the closest co-worker of the prime minister and state secretary at the finance ministry, Mr Nikezic, said at the start of negotiations with the IMF that the budgetary policy is in line with fiscal rules and that the state has a plan to keep the deficit in the prescribed frameworks. However, as the negotiations ended, it turned out that the deficit would drop out of the originally prescribed frameworks and that the country's fundamental plan meant a bigger hole in the budget, as we heard, for as many as 22 billion dinars in 2011. So again, the inevitable IMF decided to reduce the over-ambitious projected GDP growth rate from 3% to 2% in 2011, from 4.5% to 3% in 2012, and the most significant deal is that the deficit in the 2011 budget is certainly increasing from 4.1%) to 4.5%, which translates from 120 to 142 billion dinars. The deficit projection was also redefined in 2012, so it increased from 3.5% to 4% of GDP, or at projection level, by an additional 90 billion dinars. I really don't understand why the reason for optimism, satisfaction, or I don't know what it is in a situation that the facts support in this way. It is said, therefore, that, as it is well noted, the minus in this broken state register, of course, is in line with the agreement of the Government and the IMF. However, the only unknown is how and what calculation has actually been made. We could hear that the biggest savings of some 8.4 billion dinars were made at capital expenditures, but no investment was compromised, but only there was a change in payment dynamics. The truth is, it's my humble opinion, I don't think it's about the core savings, but it's practically just a string of those ten billion dinars, which came from the adoption of the Law on the financing of local self-government, so the municipalities, on the one hand, got money, and on the other hand they practically lost money. So it is evident that instead of reforms, problems are solved by borrowing. As long as that's the case, there will be no motive, of course, no saving, no reform. During its term of office, the government increased public debt by about five billion euros. It's only when the borrowing price is too high and when the state gets harder and harder to get money for its expenditures, of course, it's gonna start with reforms, but it's obviously a job for another government. Of course, as long as there's state property that can be sold like Telekom, Elektroprivreda, state land, etc. We can't have a growth rate of only 1% or 2%, and we can't be in debt after the inflation deduction of 6.7% or 8%. It's just not sustainable. It only further creates a problem for Serbia's weaker economy. Of course, the question of all questions is – from which sources will the growing deficit be financed? So, to be clear, public and state debt is nothing more than the obligations that its citizens must pay in one way or another, and that is, of course, achieved through larger taxes. What I would like to point out on this occasion is that, of course, an entirely new concept of development is needed for economic policy, because what I would like to say a little bit more on this occasion is, therefore, this is, in terms of tax policy, amending and supplementing the property tax law, because theoretically it comes from the fact that the property is an expression of an existing economic power of an individual, and that the income that it has is able to reconcile its tax liability. The exception to this theoretical rule is every average taxpayer in Serbia. In short, if we are talking about our tax principles and current changes, we should first start with the rate of annual depreciation. The old law predicted that as your real estate is old, its value is reduced at 1.5% each year based on depreciation by amortisation rate of 1.5% using a proportional method, so we have come to a change that leads to a reduction based on a depreciation rate of 0.8% and all that results from it is that taxpayers will be elegantly transferred to local self-government, given that the assembly of each local self-government is given the possibility that within 90 days of the entry into force of this law and determines lower tax rates than prescribed. Of course, the problem is that there is one provision left of that old law under which property tax companies pay for the book value of assets, citizens on amortised market value. What's a big problem is only this tax code is that the efficiency of the collection of the prescribed tax. All in all, to finish slowly, therefore, it is clear that only a few months away from the election and that those who obviously run economic policy in Serbia, which is, of course, the IMF, will only deliver new tasks in some future period. This applies first of all to some reform of the pension system, health care and education, and that we can expect anything unless something radical changes in the state of Serbia. At the end, it would not be fair if I did not admit that the government, so the government of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and recorded some growth, increased public debt growth, increased unemployment growth and increased the rate of poverty of citizens. That's the bill you'll pay the citizens for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61778	National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61779	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very end of today's discussion, I would like to reiterate the view of the SRS that the budget rebalance adopted is a mirror of the government in the Republic of Serbia. Everything this government has done since its formation in 2008 to this day has been faithfully painted on these pages. I am sorry that the prime minister's desire to conduct the debate cannot be heard exclusively from the economic aspect, because he himself knows that such a wish offends the opposition's MPs, because the budget is a document of economic policy, but with a good political background and concerns all citizens. We had a so-called. the reconstruction of the government in March. We really listened to the phrases and the good words. The rebalans, which we are discussing today, are another in a series of evidence of how farce the Serbian citizens' intelligence has been violated. This is one of the written evidence, and the unwritten have many citizens every day feel it on their skin. He listed the prime minister's priorities for the new government, I can't repeat them all now, I'll just remind myself of what he said about economic goals, and only one part -- that the Serbian government will implement economic policy measures in the coming months that will enable better living standards for citizens, and these measures include increasing employment, reducing public spending and fiscal deficits, a dynamic growth in economic activity based on the production of exchangeable goods, as well as higher investments in agricultural production. This and a lot more said by Mr. Cvetkovic on March 14th this March. This year, September 23rd, he put his signature on the rebalancing proposal, which was delivered to the National Assembly. Citing part of the prime minister's economic exposure, I stressed a reduction in public spending and a fiscal deficit. In that period, the government concluded that it was too bulky and thought that if they were a little less bulky, they would be both more efficient and cheaper. The results of this promised efficiency are in this proposal for rebalancing. The budget deficit is up by 22.2 billion, a total of 142.7 billion. The next promise, not blinking, on behalf of the new and old government, the prime minister made regarding economic goals, the dynamic growth of economic activity based on the production of exchangeable goods. On the first page of the evaluation given by the Fiscal Council on the Rebalances of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the members of the Finance Committee, it was written in the first paragraph: "During 2011 there was a slowdown in economic activity so that GDP growth estimates were reduced from 3% to 2% for this year." Another promise was to reduce public spending. From the beginning, this government has sworn, and it has done everything contrary to its oath. The argument on this claim is also on the first page of this evaluation of the Fiscal Council, and it says: "We negatively assess the fact that the cost structure has changed in favour of current consumption". As I said at first, when we talk about budget rebalancing for this year, we can't just look at the current moment, we have to consider everything the government has done during its term of office. In an excessive desire to court his alleged European friends, it has started with a unilateral application of the SAA since January 2009. When we look at customs revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we have also seen a significant drop in customs participation in total tax revenues. The SRS economic team made one comparison from 2006 to 2011. Things are like this: from 2006 to 2008, customs participation ranged from 10.09 to 11.62%, in 2009, it was 8.32%, in 2010, 7.06%, and the budget for this year planned to change the plan to 5.45%. This slight increase is due to a major decline in other tax revenues, income tax and VAT, rather than a slight growth in customs revenues. At the same time as you started with a unilateral application of the SAA, you increased excise duties to compensate for lost customs revenues, so in 2008, excise duties participated at 16.87%, in 2009 with 20.56%. Now this rebalancing is scheduled for excises to take place at 22.84%. This is just a small fraction of the argument that the SAA, i.e. Its unilateral application on the Serbian side did not bring the citizens a better standard of living that was promised. Instead of reducing unemployment and increasing the standard of living from citizens year to year, we have an increasing number of those who cannot survive, so the budget for social protection has increased. One government that calls itself socially responsible is based on the fact that social protection is provided to those who cannot work because of sickness, disability, child rearing and other things that fall under social protection. The rest are provided with work, work and make money. It is the position of the SRS and we will always express it because it agrees with the vast majority of Serbian citizens. Now you're acting like a doctor who treats the consequences of the disease, not the cause that causes the disease again and all that in the circle. What was actually done? An army of unemployed was created by losing their jobs, young generations who finish school have nowhere to work. It's like it's in your best interests, because you think you'll be able to manipulate it more easily with a group like that. No, you certainly won't. We in the SRS are sure that in the upcoming elections, Serbian citizens will not choose their future with social security benefits but will choose to work and make money, that everyone who works will be paid according to their qualifications, education and the abilities they show. You said the story with a higher amount of social protection funds is a way to give certain categories of users a chance to survive this time of crisis, that it's a fairer distribution. If someone wanted to create a fairer society, they should have made an effort to create an ambience in which new jobs would be opened, start production, ensure workers' safety, not to have someone work 12 hours a day for 12,000 a month. A government that calls itself socially responsible cannot be proud of its work when it knows that the health situation of Serbian citizens is catastrophic, and it cuts out on pain. Eleven years after political changes in Serbia, the death of citizens is among the largest in the world, due to dying before the time of cardiovascular and malignant diseases, and since 2008, infant mortality has been on the rise. The government simply does not recognise the biological threat of Serbian citizens. The budget rebalancing has done nothing to improve health care. Absurd is that we see from the plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund that, as part of the health care expenditure, the biggest reduction is recorded in the compensation for the benefit of the sick, for a billion and 300 million, and this will reflect the growth of the unmistakable obligations of the users on this basis. How they will be suffering from severe diseases without those 65% of the profits, that is the question that should be considered by the government that has overrun expenditures in the budget. You expect an EU membership bid. You'll probably get it. But when they look at official data that says that among the poor in Serbia are the most vulnerable children of up to 13 years, 9.8%, and from 14 to 18 years 8.4%, what when it turns into figures is about 120,000 poor children, you know what they're going to say? They will say, "What will these people do to us, they are unable to prevent poverty among children, they break away the sick from being sick, and they do not like to hear it when it is said to them?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61780	There are no more MPs on the list. Mr. Momo Colakovic did not use the right of Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, and I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61781	President-in-Office, the President-in-Office, the Prime Minister-in-Office of the People's Parliament, I need to say one more thing about the draft budget rebalancing law, and I am invited to present the DSS MP. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his response to the payment of the debt to the agricultural pensioners. In the meantime, I have received at least a dozen calls and thanks to the Prime Minister. Second, there was a word here that the PUPS aren't on the line. We're on the line here, and with our arguments, we're trying to defend our views, and those who don't have arguments aren't in the O.R. In my presentation, I said that the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, in the period of these nine months, confirmed its existence and in this sense that one of the least restrictive laws in the area of pension-inhabitation in Europe, especially in our environment, is particularly in countries in transition. In this respect, he provided one security and regularity in pension payments. The pensioners in our country today are the safest and most regular in their incomes. That's why there are no arguments that have been discussed here in individual discussions. I only mention that the law provides all those rights that have been so far, except for a few things I won't talk about, but also provides future generations that will replace us with approximately the same conditions for retirement. In this regard, the arguments presented here do not stand. Secondly, we have long since left the formula and established by law how pensions are coordinated. I think it's the right thing to do and it's confirmed in pension payments and pension coordination this year. As public sector wages grew, so did pensions. How come now the return and insistence at 70% or 60%? I'll just remind you that when this government, the ruling coalition and the government were established, we found an average pension or an average salary below 50%. She's 61% today. The argument is not necessary. Also, in this year, I repeat, pensions have been harmonised three times, twice extraordinary for the lowest pensions, for farmers, for all pensioners and twice on a regular basis. That's a total of 8.9% for everyone. For the lowest pensions 9.5% and for agricultural pensions 12.5%. In some data, I came across that wage growth in the public sector has really increased by less than 3%. The next thing I want to say, what about the measures that we stand for when it comes to those who can't have a decent life? I don't just mean pensioners, I mean other citizens. It is our duty to expand the mission, to allow them to live more politely. In this respect, we agree with the measures set out in the Budget Rebalancing Act. It's easy to see from the data that stands. At the very end, Dr. Vojic was told to call on the line. Everything Dr. Jovan Krkobiæ promised during this period he did. There's no dilemma. Somebody prove that's not true. Once again, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and repeat that our parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-11-0.u61782	Thank you. Is there anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of the law who wants to speak? (No) I am concluding a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2011 Financial Plans of the Republic of Fund for Pension and Invalidity Insurance, the RZO and the National Employment Service, then, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on property taxes and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. Mr. President, I thank you and your associates for your participation, as well as for you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, there are 84 of us. There's obviously more of us, so please determine the quorum via the electronic system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 88 of us, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Gordana Komic and Aleksandra Jankovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, Energy, to attend the session of Aleksandra Kocic and Visnja Kuzmanovic, are advisers at the Ministry of Finance of Public Path and Svetlana Ristic, who was the independent adviser at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled single search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda – on the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank AD Belgrade, following the borrowing of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia 1720, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Risk Insurance Project in the case of elemental disasters for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus), between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the ECS Guarantee Project for the Colubara between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint principled single search on the 5, 6, 7 and 8 agendas, and before the opening of a joint principled search and a single search, I remind you, it is appropriate to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups for five hours. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is 5 hours, I find that the debate time per parliamentary group is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Bojan Djuric – MP group LDP and MP Zoran Krasic – SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and unified search on the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank AD Belgrade following the borrowing of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia 1720, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project for Risks in the case of Essential Accidents for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Project for Kolubara) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there is no government representative yet, I'm going to ask you to continue our work in an hour. THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY (11,10 hours)
