ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63433	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 74 MPs. To determine how many of us are in the O.R., please insert the cards into the e-system MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are found to be MPs in the hall84, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Vitomir Mihajlovic, Mladen Grujic and Zoran Nikolic. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoters Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Policy, I have called for the session to be attended by Dr Miro Čavaljga, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Dejan Ristic, Adviser at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I welcome Mr. Minister and his associate. We continue with the work and move on to the principle search of the fourth item of the agenda – the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 30 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour and 24 minutes; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Nikola Krpic, PUPS parliamentary group; MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP group SPS – JS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the Proposer's representative, Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Politics, wants a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the amendments to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia. As you've had a chance to see, it's about three changes. It creates two brand-new holidays. On February 15th, Serbia's Statehood Day will be extended to two unworkable days and will be marked on February 15th and 16th. We felt that in this way we should affirm the greatest national national holiday and correct one illogical fact that the New Year and May 1st are marked and celebrated with two unworkable days, and that the greatest holiday held was marked one day. In addition, in most countries, both the EU and outside the EU, the Day of Independence and the Day of Statehood are marked and are celebrated on two unworked days. We think this will contribute to strengthening citizens' awareness of the importance of Statehood Day in Serbia. As for the other two new holidays, one is the Day of Recital in World War I and will be unworked on November 11th. Serbia for the first time since 65 years of 2005 marked different events this holiday, which is otherwise salved in all countries to the winners in World War I. Great Britain began in 1919, and then other countries, France, Belgium, Canada, the United States, most Commonwealth member states celebrated the 11th of November as a day off, so Peace Day in World War I. We felt that Serbia as a participating country in World War I, the country that suffered the most in the war, should mark this day in this way, given the size of the tragedy and the fact that a third of the population then lost Serbia. As for the third change, the introduction of a brand-new holiday, it is the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II. It will mark October 21st as a reference to the death in Kragujevac in 1941. Also, most countries have their national day of memory of victims in World War II. This is a press daily initiative supported by 16,000 Serbian citizens, all of the country's state officials, most of the parties and authorities and opposition supported, however. This was an expression, therefore, of a complete agreement on the 21st October introduction as the days of memories of Serbian victims in World War II. The fact is, 2977 people were shot in Kragujevac within three days, who were identified. That crime stands out for the monstrosity, the way it was committed. The fact is also that 40 children were 11 to 15 years old, that 261 young men, aged 16 to 19, were killed, spoke in favour of the need to mark the 21st of October in a decent way throughout the country, and it would be marked on the job, since nowhere in the world the Day of Remembrance is not marked and celebrated as a working day. I'm sure there will be objections to bringing in new holidays and new days of work. I just want to remind you that according to current law, we have eight unworkable days a year with the introduction of two new non-working days that will be 10 unworkable days and that's still less than the European average. For example, for 11 unworkable days, France, Hungary, Italy, 12 unworkable days have the Czech Republic, Poland, Macedonia, Albania, 13 unworked days have Belgium, Bulgaria, Austria, 14 unworkable days have Slovenia, Croatia, Greece, Canada, Romania has 15 non-working days in total. Also, I'd like to take another look at the 21st of October memory day. I think that we will complete the celebration of those World War II holidays, which will highlight the importance that Serbia gave anti-fascist combat and victory over fascism, and already under the current laws of 2006 marks the Day of Remembrance on the victims of the Holocaust on January 27th, which has been established by the UN General Assembly since 2006, and since 2010, it has been marked as the day of the death of the Roma in World War II. In addition, since 1992, the Law opening the Museum of Victims has been marked on April 22nd as the Day of Remembrance of Genocide Victims in World War II. Therefore, all victims from 1941 to 1945 in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63435	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees (the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs) want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63436	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I have an obligation first as a child of fascist terror, and in front of my party, and I agree that these proposed holidays are to be celebrated. But not only did the Serbs die. I belong to the Serbian Nationality and it bothers me with the name only Serbs, because in my King other residents, Roma, Jews, Slovenians, etc. I mean my only proposal or replacement, not to be the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims, but the memory of all those killed by genocide in 1941. We know that General Beme made the decision, which was made on 14 October 1941 for 100 killed Serbs by a German, and for 50 killed Serbs, a wounded German. Therefore, that number surely obliges us that the nations that lived on our country's territory at that time were all killed equally, so only if possible, Mr. Minister, is there not just a memory of the Serbian victims because they were not the only ones in our country in 1941. Otherwise, I agree it's October 21st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63437	National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63438	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia. We'll do it for the next reasons. Before that, the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia recognises the national holidays and this Meeting as Statehood Day, New Year's Eve, Labour Day and Victory Day. He then recognizes religious festivals, recognizes other holidays, as it is called here as the marking of the day of St. Sava and Vidovdan and finally gives the opportunity for all citizens of different religions to mark their glory or their days according to the religion they belong to. These changes that were suggested what Mr. Minister was talking about are absolutely in place. I will start from the first shift, and the first change concerns that the Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia is celebrated for two days instead of one. I think there's a lot of reason to be. First in the Law on State and Other Holidays and during the national holidays, this is the most important state holiday, which is the Day of Statehood of Serbia. I think it's important because Serbia is an old country, Serbia is not created in a new time, it has a long history, a long tradition and should cherish it. I think it's right that this change is proposed. The second amendment also concerns this part of the law that talks about national holidays, another new one is being introduced that is the 11th of November Peace Day in World War I. Serbia belonged to the countries of the winners in World War I. Serbia suffered very great sacrifices in the First World War and Serbia, that is, its army managed to free its own country in the fight against very strong enemies, and we should clearly and loudly remind all of them and in the future, that Serbia was the one who fought for its freedom from the start and that Serbia was the one who belonged to the winners in World War I. It was unnatural what wasn't a day to mark and win World War I. Here, in an explanation, he tends more towards it and warns of major injuries and casualties, which is undeniable. But it must not be ignored that Serbia belonged to the winners and that it must also be marked in some way. I think there was reason to think about some more days, days that would just remind us of victory, such as a breakthrough of the Thessaloniki front, such as Serbia's release from Austria, Bulgaria and other armies. The third amendment, given in this law, may be at first sight, at least seems to me, in the part where it is said that Serbia celebrates the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II as a memorial of October 21st, 1941, a bloody fall in 1941 when the German occupation forces committed mass war crimes against civilians in Kragujevac and throughout Serbia. I admit it may be my mistake, my failure, but to celebrate the day of memory, somehow to me, but I will not question the essence, it should be marked exactly this way as the bill and envisaged, so, on October 21st, the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II as a reference to October 21st, 1941, when the German occupation forces committed mass war crimes, above all in Kragujevac. I want to mention three things here. First of all, I think he was rightly elected on October 21st and Kragujevac right now, not to explain further, for the reasons Mr. Minister spoke of, because of the monstrosity of the crime that took place and who somehow left the most memories in people. The other thing I'm saying is, it's one day he's been elected, but which includes, I believe, that's what the proposer thought, all the victims and all the casualties of the innocent people in Serbia, and Serbs and Jews, Roma, so all the citizens of Serbia. Serbia was at the time able to commit numerous war crimes throughout its territory. Many victims were in concentration camps. Take the Eggs, the Banjica, etc. numerous crimes in Vojvodina, Serbia, KIM, various loosing sites, mass graves, etc. All of this should be covered by that date. That date was only taken because one had to be, and I think it was right to take a Kragujean date. Thirdly, Serbia has, in addition to all the crimes, made great sacrifices, but Serbia and the Second World War were on the side of a victory against fascism and it rightly organised resistance, took part in fighting and freed its country, with all due respect and due respect for all the victims must also be repeatedly highlighted. So, given everything I've been talking about, I want to say in the end that in the voting day, we will support the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on State and Other Holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63439	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, on behalf of the SRS, I would like to congratulate the citizens of Serbia living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina on two big dates that, for what reasons, have escaped legal regulation. This is November 24th, the day when representatives of the National Council from Srem decided to join the Kingdom of Serbia and November 25th, when the large National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slovenians in Novi Sad, led by Jasa Tomic in 1918, decided to join the Kingdom of Serbia, Banat, Baka and Baranja. This resolves the issue of Vojvodina as an integral part of the Serbian state from the SRS' point of view. As for the amendments to the Law on State and Other Holidays, the SRS has several objections, i.e. we have several views to make out which did not enter the bill. First of all, when it comes to marking Serbia's Statehood Day in the review of the provisions that are being amended, that is to say, in Article 1 -- the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia is the Meeting, the Day of Statehood of Serbia, the mention of the day the First Serbian uprising was raised at the Orasc Assembly in 1835 and the day in Kragujevac was issued and sworn by the First Constitution of the Serbian Library. Mr. Minister, the uprising against the Turks, the first Serbian uprising was raised not on February 15th but on February 14th, when Karadzic burned Turkey's Han in Orasac, and at the Assembly of the Uprising Elders in Orasac, on February 15th, so the next day, he was elected the top leader of the Serb people, or leader of the First Serbian Uprising. Otherwise, fighting against the Turks began a day earlier. So, not February 15th, but February 14th. You suggest that the meeting be celebrated for two days, February 15th and 16th. If I wanted to be maligned, and given the statement of the self-called Belgrade negotiating team chief with Pristina, Mr. Borko Stefanovic, who is doing everything in his power to admit so-called. to the republic of Kosovo, I could say that someone had come to mind that the meeting was celebrated for two days, February 15th and 16th to somehow catch up with February 17th, when the Cypriots declared the so-called 2008 so-called. an independent republic of Kosovo. I think that there are people in the Serbian government and in the ruling coalition at all who wouldn't mind celebrating the meeting for two days just because of it, not because of the meeting itself, and because of Karadjord, or the First Serbian uprising, but to somehow come out to meet the Shiptars, the EU, so that no one will call us tomorrow that, God forbid, we are violating the rights of Albanians in the KIM and that those who flock in the EU would not prevent you from obtaining EU candidate status on December 9th. As for the First World War Peace Day on November 11th, on that day, Mr. Minister, it capitulated Germany in World War I, and earlier, on November 3, 1918, it capitulated Austria, so that when it says "Peace Day", it is a rather relative category because some central forces, such as Austro-Hungarians, actually capitulated before Germany. Before she capitulated Germany, they suspended the battle facts against the Allies, so the big question is whether November 3rd or November 11th should be taken as a truce day. It is not proposed to amend this proposal by law on national and other holidays, but it is already in the basic text. As for New Year's Eve, a simple, little historical reminder. The new year is a national holiday in Serbia and in some ways it is an international holiday because it is marked in a large number of European and non-European countries, but I want to remind myself of some historical facts. Today's new year is marked as the beginning of a new summer on the Gregorian calendar, but the roots of this holiday are not marking New Year's Eve as such, the roots of this holiday are in Roman Catholic tradition. I don't know if you know that, Mr. Minister, in the early Middle Ages of the night between December 31st and January 1st, a Roman Pope, Sylvester the First and Catholic Church, marked on January 1st not because of the new year as such but as the memories of the Roman Pope Sylvester, so the evening between December 31st and January 1st in Catholic canons is called the Night of St. Sylvester, and you, dear Serbs who sing and play that 1st of January, may not even be aware that you are actually marking the memory that the day a Roman Pope died. As for the changes in Article 5, related to October 21st and the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II, the SRS supports the marking of October 21st as the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II, because German occupation forces in Kragujevac indeed committed an outrageous crime, massing thousands of Kragujevac citizens, including children of school age. It was until then an unrecorded war crime in World War II. At the same time, the SRS has another proposal that has not found its place in this bill. We believe that the day is to be changed when Serbia's uprising Day is to be celebrated in World War II. We're against it being July 7th. On July 7th, one Serb shot at two Serbs, so Zikica Jovanovic-Spanac shot at a fair in the White Church at two Serbian gendarmes – Bogdan Lončar and Milenko Brakovic and killed them. There is no reason for the Serb people to celebrate the day the unfortunate brotherly war began in Serbia. Otherwise, I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, that in early July 1941, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, or the Poliburo of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, and this, imagine, in the villa Vladislav Ribnikar na Dedinj, made a decision to raise the armed uprising in Yugoslavia. Before the decision was made, on July 1, 1941, eight days after Germany attacked the Soviet Union, Cominterna urged all communist parties in Europe to organise an armed uprising against the Germans. That message to Cominterne was transmitted to Tito by a Soviet intelligence officer who maintained a radio connection to Moscow, Josip Kopinich. So, Cominterna called on the Communist Party of Yugoslavia on July 1st to rise, and Josip Broz, in the villa Vladislav Ribnikar na Dedinj, with his party comrades, made a decision on July 4th to raise an armed uprising and three days later, Zikica Jovanovic shot at these two Serb gendarmes. Why am I saying this? For history. The Communist Party of Yugoslavia, a proven historical fact, is recognised by domestic and foreign historians, organised the uprising against the Germans only after Germany attacked the Soviet Union, and before Germany attacked the Soviet Union in Serbia and Yugoslavia, there was one other, democratic, anti-fascist, but at the same time anti-communist resistance movement, led by Colonel Draža Mihajlovic, who in May came with a group of 26 soldiers, a subordinate and an officer on one high-level on the southwestern slopes of Suvobor, who, on maps of the military-geographical institute in Belgrade, marked himself as Ravna Gora. On August 31st 1941, members of his movement freed the first city in Europe from German occupation. That was Loznica. It was the first Allied great victory in World War II. Until then, the Allies lost battle after battle against Hitler both on the European continent and beyond the European continent. In those days, Germany brutally bombed Great Britain and on August 31st, the military-ready squad of Lieutenant Colonel Veselina Misite freed Loznica. And the SRS would like to remind both you and the citizens of Serbia that as early as 1994, as a party in Loznica, we have erected a monument to Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misita, whom the Partisans killed the same night after Loznica was released while sitting in a pub. So they killed him from behind. There is no reason after so many decades we mark Serbia's Day as a tragic event in the Serbian people. Instead, it is due to choose the date when the first major Serbian victory, but also the Allied victories in World War II, which was on August 31st 1941, when the military-četnik squad released Loznica. Also, the SRS is proud of another fact. The late mother of the president of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj is from the Herzegovina family of Misita, so Vojislav Seselj and the family are connected to the late Veselin Misita and we suggest, Mr Minister, that when you think about new amendments to the Law on State and Other Holidays, you will definitely change the date for marking the uprising in Serbia, that it will no longer be July 7th, but that it will be August 31st. All Serbs should be proud of that day. It is a day of great victory at a time when everyone in Europe felt that Hitler was invincible, that no one could do anything to him, when the posters were glued to Belgrade -- Germany wins on all fronts, when the Germans were informing all of Europe that the city was falling after the city in the Soviet Union. At the end of August 1941, Chetniks under the command of Vesetina Misite were able to free Loznica, a large city, from the German occupation and this great victory echoed in all Allied countries. After all, Mr. Minister, an English historian wrote that in the spring of 1941, therefore, before Germany attacked the Soviet Union, and before the Communist Party of Yugoslavia decided to raise an armed uprising in Europe against Hitler, only Great Britain and Draža Mihajlovic fought. No matter how much it sounds to someone, no matter how much they're against it for ideological reasons, they're historical facts. What is forgotten, which has failed you from the government who wrote this bill, is to remind yourself of those great days of 1918 that happened in today's territory of the AP Vojvodina. Someone seems to have deliberately eliminated these great days of the bill and in some way wanted to destroy the memory of a Serb people living in Vojvodina on those big November days in 1918. Why am I saying this? Because for 20 years as a people and as a state, we have faced unprecedented historical counterfeits, that people who are today fighting for the autonomy of Vojvodina, and even more so, for the Republic of Vojvodina, are calling for a Serbian autonomous movement from the 19th and early 20th centuries. The Serbian Radical Party wishes this opportunity to remind citizens of Serbia, primarily citizens living in Vojvodina, that it is a major historic counterfeit and that parties such as LSV and a number of other autonomous political parties or NGOs have no historical, ideological and political ties to the movement led by Svetozar Miletic and Jasa Tomic. It was a struggle for Serbian autonomy in a foreign state, the Habsburg monarchy, which tried in various ways to change Serbs' national and religious identity. What happened in the fall of 1918, when it was clear that Austro-Hungarian had failed? The leader of the Serbian People's Radical Party from southern Hungary, Jasa Tomic, said nicely that any struggle for Vojvodina's autonomy in the future and united Serbian state is Austria's old age. The idea of autonomous Vojvodina made sense while Serbs lived in a foreign state, but when the time came to form a single Serbian state, for Jasa Tomic and for the leading Serbs of that era living in southern Hungary, the idea was spent because the time had come to form a single Serbian state. On November 1918, Jasa Tomic won a great victory over one and the other political wing in Vojvodina, which wanted Vojvodina to unite with Serbia-Montenegro but through Zagreb, to become part of the so-called. The Slovenian states, Croats and Serbs, so that through Zagreb we can unite with Belgrade. The merit is Jaša Tomic and the SRS is proud to have the heritage tradition and memory of Jasa Tomic. We raised, while we were the city government in Novi Sad, a monument in Jasa Tomic, which led to the idea of Jasa Tomic that Serbs from southern Hungary, meaning from Srema, Banat, Baka and Baranja, which these fake autonomists forget directly joined Serbia. These historical decisions were made on 24 and 25 November 1918. Serbs, Bunjeci and Slovenians from southern Hungary have made it clear those November days they want to join and in which country they want to live. In that sense, the SRS issue of Vojvodina and its status in the Republic of Serbia was resolved in 1918. The Serbian Vojvodjans have made it clear – we want to live in Serbia. We do not want to live in either the state of Slovenians, Croats and Serbs, in Austria-Ugaria, in southern Hungary, or in the Danube Federation, all of these were ideas that were in circulation at the time, we want to live in Serbia. Mr. Minister, if you had a little hearing, or you and your colleagues in the government, and given the events in Vojvodina concerning the adoption of statutes, for restitution, for rehabilitation, etc., these two dates or at least 25 November, they had to find a place in the Bill of State and Other Holidays. What we are talking about now is also important in the context of yesterday’s debate in the National Assembly, which was led a while ago and related to the proposal for a law on the return of seized property. What's this about? The ruling coalition in the Serbian Parliament, Mr. Minister, on a proposal from the government where you are sitting, passed the Restitution Act. Among other things, the state of Serbia will be obliged to return the seized property to the folks, i.e. the Germans who, in large numbers, inhabited the territory of Vojvodina and who until World War II owned most of the land, most of the trade and craft shops, most of the mills. Now the state of Serbia will have to return all these people, or their descendants, property. It's true, Mrs. Hope, only you didn't seem to read the law in detail. If it pleases you to throw it at me, just keep going. Yesterday there was a debate here, Mr. Minister, about the Rehabilitation Act. The bill gave the Serbian government the right to rehabilitate by law, again to the folks, because they, as it says in the bill, are declared war criminals on the principle of collective responsibility. That is why the SRS insists on marking November 24th and 25th, not to forget that Vojvodina is Serbian. Someone is systematically working that Vojvodina is not Serbian. Someone systematically works to get Vojvodina back to the Germans, to resurrect Austria-Hungarians, to resurrect the idea of the Danube Federation, to completely erase the Serbian character of Vojvodina, to completely erase the struggle of the great Serbs in the 19th and early 20th centuries, to keep the Serbian people alive in Vojvodina and to join the queen of Serbia. That's why, Mr. Minister, you had to take care of it. Don't be ashamed of those big days. The Serbian people in Vojvodina are also proud to remember these great people, who were far-sighted and said in a very difficult historical situation, as Jasa Tomic said -- first we will wear the Serb shirt, and then we will encase in the coat of Yugoslavia. If this idea had been carried out to the end in the Serbian people, I think many of the tragedies from the end of the 20th century would have been avoided.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63441	Time. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? (No) We are moving to work according to the order of Members of the People's Parliaments declared to be in charge of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia. I give my word to MP Milan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we need more dignity and more unity in discussing these points of the agenda. If these dots and dates share us in the congregation and in the people, I'm afraid the future is not too bright for us either. I therefore call for unity in the adoption of this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law on State and Other Holidays. There is nothing controversial about these amendments and additions to the law, and the least controversial in what I have reported as a Kragujevcan to talk about October 21st, the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims, the future Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II. The minister said it couldn't be a holiday. The holiday includes a relaxed atmosphere, a celebration. It's a day of memory. The question is, do we need a day of memory and why do we need it? I know we need it. We need first of all, because of the sacrifices that are numerous, not only in Kragujevac, but also in the Kingdom, in those days and in other parts of Serbia. In 1941 alone, 33,000 people in Serbia lost their lives, which in the struggles with the occupier, in the liquidations that the occupier conducted in central Serbia. We also need a day of memory to remember how important peace and peace policy is for Serbia's future. We also need to remember how many totalitarian ideologies and extreme ideologies were most fatal to small peoples during the 20th century. Today when I see, though, some marginal groups of Nazi celebrations and among the Serbian people, I get chilly. That's why we should remember these victims. What preceded October 21st and the death of nearly three thousand Kragujevans? It was preceded, I may say, on March 27th 1941, when, above all, the Serb people, rather than the Serb elite, were identified for the fight against the Third Reich. Most other countries are involved in World War II by being directly attacked by fascist and Nazi forces, or by a political elite decision to engage in the conflict. We have made that decision by the people, and I think it's for respect. It's a science for some future for all of us. Already in May, Serbia's third armed opposition to the occupations, and directly to Hitler's order, on April 28th, the Nazi occupier announced that for each dead German, they would shoot 100 and for every wounded 50 Serbs. As a result, 2,900 people, perhaps more, were killed in Kragujevac on 21 October, and about 1,700 people were shot in the Kingdom on the same day. Not only did Serbs die, this is the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims, but we cannot think about our victims in such a way. Many people in Serbia suffered. First of all, Jews, Roma, but also other nations. Not only in 1941, in 1942 we have in Novi Sad and Shajska a large liquidation of Serbs, Jews and Roma under Hungarian occupation troops. When a day like this comes, we should remember the Old Simishte camp, where thousands of our fellow Jews have lost their lives. I'm going back to the beginning. All these victims deserve respect, they deserve our memory, but they deserve us all to learn some lessons together. These lessons are lessons in peace, lessons in the fight against totalitarian regimes and lessons in the fight for democracy, human rights and the peaceful and compromise resolution of all conflicts in the future. It remains only in the end to thank all the parties who helped their initiative to make October 21st the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II, primarily their party DS, who together with the list "Pres" launched that initiative and collected about 12,000 signatures in Kragujevac, but also other parties who participated, there are also opposition parties, to thank the state summit and the president and the prime minister and the president of the Assembly, who signed and supported that initiative and I expect unanimous support from this initiative, I expect that at least we can unite in this assembly. We should remember these days and those sacrifices that our people have made in our name, because that is the only way we are human beings, first of all, and not first of all, members of ethnic communities, tribes, peoples and nations. That is why I call once again on all present MPs and those who are not present, to support this law and thus send all these lessons clearly to public opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63443	National MP Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we continue our legislative story on government proposals for laws that strengthen the Drina border limit, since through Government's international narrow Serbian laws, the legitimate Chinese wall is strengthened towards the western Serbian countries and the remaining Western Serbs. Drina, therefore, is the higher limit limit for eastern and western Serbs. Drina has halved Serbia's folk since 395, i.e. since the time of the Roman Empire's division into eastern Byzantine-Romayian and Western, which will become the bassion of Roman Catholicism. The symbolic Drinn ideological-political border has been imposed on Serbs since Roman and Byzantine times, and then from Vatican missionary proselytes, from Hamburg's colonialists, through German Nazism, American globalism, but also from this existing international Serbian government of carnophils and Euro fanatics, a government that already has many laws in the fields of culture, education, science, rights limited by the Drinian border, constantly reducing Serbia. The government, therefore, is intensively implementing the strengthening of the Drin anti-Serb misery. The old and rare Serbian book outside the territory of the recently adopted Serbian law remained in the wind of surrounding anti-Serbian regimes. Restitution of Serbian property outside the border of the Republic of Serbia has been left to the mercy of the surrounding new statesmen. Rehabilitation of Serbs who, for their misfortune, were born outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia was disabled by the latest bill we discussed yesterday. Unfortunately, legal provisions and this holiday law proposal do not cross the violently established border on the Drina. Celebrating national and national holidays through the history of the 20th century in Serbia and Yugoslavia was marked by ideological and political motives. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, according to the ideology of Yugoslav nationalism, the Monarchist key to the satisfaction of the progeny of the Serbian-Slovenian Yugoslav Jugoslavism took place, so St. Sava and Strosmeyer and the Slovenian prince Kocelj were celebrated. In particular, in the Kingdom of SHS, i.e. Yugoslavia, a culture of the Karadjordjevic dynasty, and as a state holiday, next to Vidovdan, which was marked as the solemn significance of the dead fighters for the homeland and on December 1st, as the days of the Yugoslav unification, were celebrated on January 9th, as the birthday of His Majesty Queen of Mary, September 6th as the birthday of Nj. K.V. Petra, December 12th, King's Christian glory, December 17th, King's Majesty's birthday, self-evaluation of the extent to which the cult of the dynasty was represented at that time. Vidovdan, as a sublime national symbol of the Serbian pre-Christian and Christian traditions, nurtured in a culture by the Serbian people through the 19th and 20th centuries. Many societies, associations, newspapers, magazines, bear the name Vidovdan. The Montenegrin propaganda of the Yugoslav army of the country particularly highlighted the dignity of Vidovdan. A number of Belgrade magazines bear the Vidovdan name. Thus, in the free Serbian mountains, the "Vidovdan" newspaper for all Serbian countries was published as a central note. Many Chetnic papers called "Vidovdan" have been published in Serbian provinces and regions, e.g. "Vidovdan Timoski", "Vidovdan Romanski", "Vidovdan Dalmatian", "Vidovdan cable", "Vidovdan Herzegovsky", "Vidovdan obljeniski i pesakski", "Vidovdan Vojvodjanski". He covered almost all Serbian countries. The Serbs are a people who fanatically fought to save Western liberal democracies in World War I and II. Then they sacrificed their ancient nation for some virtual Yugoslav Jugovina, as did the Yugoslav Chetniks in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in order to be rejected in 1943 by the largest Serbian bloodline Englishmen led by Churchill, who, contrary to General Draža Mihailovic and the Yugoslav Army and the country, had installed the communiqué and English agent Josip Broz, who had naively used Serbian partisans to create a large Croatian Yugoslavia and then the independent republic of Croatia since 1974. So the installed Brozovs, English, international croatosrbs were tailoring Serbian holiday laws and creating a holiday non-worker's consciousness, that it was good for any law, just so it didn't work. This was also said in the time of the godless Serbian nationalist Milosevic, who has persistently protected the largest anti-Serbian holiday that has shut Serbs into republican towers and that has wiped out all the centuries-old borders of the old Serbian countries. You'll guess it's a holiday that's real as a state in the woods above the Bosnian city of Eggs on November 29, 1943. All the laws on the holidays of FNRJ, SFRY, SRJ, SCG and these unfortunate constantly shrinking Serbia were sometimes anti-Serbian, mostly anal, i.e. Internationally, therefore, out of the holiday mood, they acquired a rich Serbian tradition and history. How today, the Serbian holiday people get used to celebrating the magnificent Vidovdan that they have marked for centuries and usually carried and celebrated the Serbs all three faiths. This Serbian holiday is a continuation of the celebration of the pagan deity of the Worlds, which was celebrated as the Serbian Supreme God ahead of Christian times. One of the greatest Serbs of all time, Saint Sava, was reduced to a holiday work day in the form of a celebration of school glory, but long ago it had to be turned into something more, i.e. in the holiday of Christian spirituality, as the holiday of St. Sava, founder of Serbian Christianity, reformer and first Serbian legislator. The amendments to the SRS provide examples of analogy in the proposed legislative decisions on holidays. That is why I have proposed an amendment to the very title of the law, which reads – the Law on State and Other Holidays. Therefore, the title does not highlight the necessary national moment and I have suggested that this law is called - a law on national and national holidays, since there is no third category in the law. On the other hand, termologically, the law must distinguish holidays from sad anniversarys, so I think it was meant to include a term in the title of the law – solemn meanings, because they are not celebrations that relate to more joyful and relaxed celebrations. However, the ceremony means, according to the bill, they again stop at the Drina borders by rejecting the victims from the Drin Serbs. Amendments to Article 5 The SRS sought to adjust the member's termologically with the problem of marking the overall national loss of the Serb people. In the new version, Article 5 would read – in the Republic of Serbia, memories of the Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II, mentioning the 21st of October and the bloody fall of 1941 when the German occupation forces committed mass war crimes against civilians in Kragujevac and throughout Serbia and the Days of Remembrance of the all-Serb genocide of NDH in World War II, the day of the establishment of the Jadovno camp on 26 June 1941 and the day of the establishment of the Jasenovac camp on 21 August 1941. The memory of the day of memory of Serbian victims in World War II is being evoked on October 21st, on the day of the establishment of the camp Jadovno, etc. I will submit a broader explanation of the amendment during the debate in particular. So in addition to the terrible German crimes against Serbs in Kragujevac, Kralje and other cities in Serbia, it is necessary to determine days of memory of even more terrible crimes of genocide against the transdrin Serbs, which the Republic of Croatia will certainly not include in its patriotic memory calendar. An epilogue of massacres, killing Serbs and throwing into giant caves and seas around the island of Pag has reached incredible conditions, more than 42 thousand were mainly killed by Serbs. There were about 1,000 Jews and in a small number of Yugoslav Croats. Jadovno is only a symbolic name for the largest site in Southeast Europe in the summer of 1941. It was a system of Croatian death camps with a centre in Gospić, which was a gathering camp that included camps in the village of Jadovno and other caves in Velebit, Karlobag and camps on the island of Pag, which were camps of Slana and Metajna. Jasenovac is only a continuation of the mass killing of Serbs and Jews, since he was founded in August 1941, i.e. After the execution of the death camp system with the centre in Gospić. The number of jasenic victims has not been correctly evaluated, but studies suggest that between 300 and 700 thousand people have been killed. So, with these amendments to Article 5, we were trying to level the victims from Serbia with victims from other Serbian countries. To point out that last year has finally begun to mark the Day of Remembrance of Jadovno, which was completely wiped out of the minds of the Serbian people. Thanks to Dr. Bastasica's private initiative in Banja Luka, it all started last year by going mass for the first time to Velebit in the village of Jadovno. This year, the action was continued and extended by organising a scientific event in Jadovna, Banja Luka in June of this year. Then a crowd of Serbian people, leaving Banja Luka, visited a terrible place on Velebit. To Jadovno, for God's sake, this year he was also Serbian President Boris Tadic, with a mother who was half-lived after the torture by her father and uncle, and these are Tadic's grandfathers, who were, by the way, residents of the injured Serb village of Raduc, who were simply leveled with the country in the last war to defend Krajina. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to give my colleagues a minute, and I'm going to finish this. Mostly, to point out, if the government adopts amendments to the SRS, the SRS MPs will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63445	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63446	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was preparing for this debate and when I came to the Serbian Parliament, the journalists met me and showed me a few, I call them, the daily tabloids, where it's said -- here, now MPs will make a decision at a time of great economic crisis -- a little bit of unemployed days, we want to have more days off. Indeed, I looked at the forums on the Internet a little while ago, they say – there are 19 days of unemployment in Serbia. That's one vile lie. They say – look up to Japan, Germany and other EU countries, there are very few days left. As I was preparing for this debate, I looked at how many days of unemployment are in Japan and, for the sake of the public, Japan has 15 days of unemployment during the year, and Russia has 12 days of unemployment. For those who say it's incorrect that Japan has 15 unworkable days and that it's not true, here's how it is. The following holidays are celebrated in Japan: New Year's Eve is celebrated in January and Day of Rescue, in February State Day, in March Spring Day, in April of the former era, in May in Japan celebrates three holidays - Constitution Day, Green Day and Child Day, in July the Day of the Sea, in September of autumn, in October the Day of Sports and Health, in November the Day of Culture and Thanksgiving is celebrated for the workers, while in December, the emperor's birthday is celebrated. In Serbia, we only have, under the current law, eight unworkable days, by allowing Orthodox Christians and other people who opted to celebrate other holidays, a day of baptism of glory or another religious holiday, to mark in such a way that they will not work that day. Also, they say, look up to Germany. Under the federal law of the Federal Republic of Germany, unification day is an unworkable day, but the Germans also have between 12 and 15 days of unemployment depending on the province they live in. The Russians, our friends, are also having a lot of days off. Russia is not working from January 1st to January 5th, then for Christmas on January 7th. On February 23rd, the Russians marked Homeland Defense Day. The Russians also mark March 8th as a day off, an international women's day, and this is a good practice because women have made an immeasurable contribution to the development of every society, both Russian and Serbian. The Russians celebrate June 12th as the Day of Russia, and November 4th is the Day of National Unity. Perhaps we should introduce a day of people's unity in Serbia, at least one day we should all be unique and say that at least one day we have some things that unite us all, let's say -- here we are, and in Serbia we found a reason to be united, not to argue. I'm not going to talk about historical circumstances, it's already known from the history textbook, it's being taught in elementary school, why these days are marked as days, but I just want to say that I'm really sorry that in this proposal, but I didn't want to endure the amendments, because we still need how much unity we don't have some dates, but it's possible to correct it in some different way. I would not mark as the day of the Serbian people's death as the day of the Jasenovac concentration camp, I think the most significant day of the breakthrough is the day of the Jasenovac concentration camp. Together with Serbian officials, I have been several times on April 22nd, when it marks the Day of Remembrance of Jasenovac campers, and perhaps Jasenovac as the largest Serb nation's 20th century strategy, in the monstrosity and manner in which Serbs were killed, by the number of Serbs killed, which is witnessed by tombs in Donjo Gradina, Jasenovac, Stari Gradišta, it might be good that Belgrade as the largest Serbian city, as the capital of the Republic of Serbia, in which the citizens of other delicacies, other nations, but still the largest Serbian city, has a place of memory of the Jasenovic victims. You know, when you come to Republika Srpska's parliament, in front of the Republika Srpska parliament, there is symbolically a warm horror, a place of the terrible loss of Serbs in the Jasenovac concentration camp, where Serbs are brutally deprived of life in that topola of horror. The heat of terror warns Republika Srpska's MPs how much the price of freedom has been paid and what monstrosity crimes have been happening. It might be good for the city of Belgrade to have some kind of memory alley for the victims of Jasenovac and to launch that initiative whoever it wants, but it is good for our largest city to show due respect for the victims of the Jasen camp. If there's no memory calendar on that day, I say once again, because of the number of victims of the Jasenovo camp, because of the way these people are deprived of life, because of the monstrosity of the crime that was happening there, it might be good to have an alley of kee memories, the Sava coast where the victims from Jasenovac surfaced. So, I'm talking about the 7th of July that will remain marked as the day of the uprising. History will tell if it's the beginning of a brotherly and civil war, whether it's the beginning of a uprising. The date will certainly cause many controversy in a divided, politically popular Serbian public. Finally, I regret that there is no October 5th in this bill. We must have a day of democracy, so let it be October 5th, and let October 5th be a day when we will remember that we have finally once and for all established the principle that free, expressed people's will, no one can undo it. It will be a day that will warn, it will be a day and will say that Serbian citizens are ready to defend their electoral will and the democratic foundation of this country. Finally, on June 28th – Vidovdan, as the most important date in Serbian history, when many things in Serbian history happened on June 28th, remains on the calendar. It is good to have the memory of Serbian victims in the Constitution in 1941 and during the fascist occupation, because hundreds of thousands of our heads of Jews, Roma and other anti-fascists have been built into the foundations of freedom. In the end, I'm gonna finish this, say one thing. Many cities in Serbia celebrated and marked the Day of Liberation of these cities in World War II because of the suffering that these cities and these citizens were exposed to. Four years of fascist occupation are certainly terrible, but they have easily forgotten the years of alien slavery. Some cities once marked Turkish Liberation Day by 1914, some cities marked the day of their work. A pear like his day has a vidovday. Vidovdan, as the biggest Serbian holiday, is the memorial of all the dead in the fight for freedom, to Kosovo, to Kosovo, and after Kosovo, and is a universal holiday celebrated by all the people who had their ancestors who had their bones built into the foundations of freedom. I think Vidovdan should take a special place in Serbian history, on the holiday calendar, because it is a day that we will remember not only in Kosovo's color, in many ultimatums, in many unpleasant events in Serbian history. It was not in vain that the German fascists fired on June 28th the largest group of Krushevians on Liberty. Finally, I regret once again that we do not have a day of democracy and a day of people's unity, because I think that the day of national unity should be for this country, this people and our citizens, as other countries of the world have, so that once and for all, as Patriarch Paul said, His Holiness – if we do not know who to look up to, that we look up to our enemies, because each day they are increasingly more and more complicated and more united, and every day we are less and less, we are increasingly contented and more divided. Therefore, it is a good opportunity to show that in this country, all citizens can unite, whether baptized, crossed, or worshiped, because we will never agree to the division of people to those who are baptized, baptized, or worshiped. The only division I confess and know is the division of people and inhumans. It is time for people to unite, so that there will be more and more of us and show what Serbia's unity is and what are the goals that will lead us to the future. There's a lot that divides us in the past, but I think we found what will bring us together in the future and that we can all agree on that. So it would be good if we had a day of national unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63447	I thank Mr. Milivojevic. I give my word to MP SretiPeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have finally been paid to go to poor families, make gifts, go to construction sites and visit workers. You are one of the few ministers who can boast and say – I have proposed a law in the National Assembly that is likely to be accepted and to be applied. All the laws so far have not been applicable, this is what everyone will observe – the holidays. I suppose you as a minister and in your ministry there are a lot more problems than bigger problems with national holidays. Basically, as you yourself said, one addition and two more new holidays. I wanted to take a statistical look at how it worked, so I noticed that 67 of the words contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State and Other Holidays. It's seven numbers, 12 are allies, and a total of 67 words. You've really had a lot of work to do. Basically, since all of this is applicable and is already there, there is hardly a lot of conflict. The main remarks against what you have suggested have been made by our representative and deputy head of the parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Some of them and I will say a word. Let's just remind ourselves, and you'll probably agree to it, we'd rather be on the agenda here on how to reduce inflation, join those you're persistently and headlessly running, join in reducing inflation, not in terms of membership, that our inflation goes down to a percentage of 2 – 2.5%. It seems to me that from 1804 to 1858, the National Assembly, although it was not a representative body, played a more significant role than is sometimes the representative body. She called out at the time when an opinion was to be given and when the regime felt it necessary, as well as when Serbian citizens needed to call on the assembly, she convened and made some decisions. It was proposed on February 15th and it already exists as Statehood Day. He really has some historical indicators and facts that indicate that it hasn't gone wrong since that date. And the beginning of the first Serbian uprising is about the National Assembly. It was the Orasac Assembly, held on February 2nd, or February 15th, after a new calendar. This assembly was comprised of national representatives from Belgrade and Kragujeva nahia. There were about 80 of them. The decision was then made to elect Karadjordje as the organiser and leader of the First Serbian uprising. You, in your explanation, are saying that February 15th is taken as Statehood Day, you also point out the adoption of the Constitution in 1835. It was one, it would say the Free Constitution, in that time the Constitution which guaranteed some rights of citizens, perhaps in some elements more than today's Constitution and the legal rules that are being passed in this assembly. He was not accepted at that time by Austria, by Turkey, so after not a full month of validity he was put out of force and then applied so-called. Turkey's 1838 Constitution. So the historical facts that have served as a basis for the foundation of Statehood Day can be accepted as such. There are citizens in Serbia whose national holidays are 365 days. There's more and more of them. From 2009 to today, 270 thousand, these are official data from the Republic Statistics Institute, and there are still people who have 365 days of holidays, and I think there are many more of them off the record, because in the gray economy sector, whether it's real or maybe some other sector, the number of unemployed is increasing. These are problems that plague citizens of Serbia more than how many days will be celebrated. There are citizens in Serbia who do not have state holidays at all. People who are engaged in agriculture and some other activities, due to increasingly difficult conditions of engagement and placement of their products, cannot respect even religious holidays, let alone national holidays. You've had an easy task here and there's not much to argue about, but we can point to facts that are obvious from day to day, not only for the MPs of the opposition but also for this authority. Speaking of those congregations that had no representative character, I must remind myself, some 14 congregations were held during the first Serbian uprising. They were so-called. small congregations. One was a large or regular congregation. It was somewhere between 60 and 80, let's say parole, the representatives of the people, and it was one so-called. A secret congregation. Today we have more and more secret congregations, but secret negotiations held on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of this country, headed by the President of the Republic and Borko Stefanovic, and that is not good. It's not a good thing we have a situation like this today. When we are at a holiday that, or perhaps in some future period, you should take care of, and if you get another chance to come before this parliament in order to defend the Bill of State and Other Holidays, as Dr Aleksandar Martinovic pointed out, we in the SRS believe that August 31st should be the day of the uprising. The Serbian Radical Party, while raising the monuments to the colonel, at the time Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misiti, was later gradually promoted to the rank of Colonel of the Royal Army, had problems from its coalition partners. But already in 2011, Loznica was attended by the vice-president of the Central Country Administration, MP Zoran Krasic, who saw that the meeting, organised every year by the SRS, or the municipal board of the SRS in Loznica, was attended by representatives of local authorities. So, in the people it came to life, the people matured the feeling that on August 31st 1941, a very significant date, not only for Serbs living in Serbia, but for the citizens of Serbia in general, we feel that this date would be very important for that part of Podrinj, because a great retaliatory took place in April 1941 when the first officer of the German army, the truth of the lower rank, in the vicinity of Lesnica, the town also near Loznica, was killed and then the first major retaliatory took place. In this explanation for the adoption of this law, you have cited historical facts and data that indicate that this part of our Serbia has given and submitted huge sacrifices. Not only in gratitude to these people, according to this geographical part or to the whole of our Republic, but simply because Loznica was the first major freed city in the then occupied Europe, I don't think we can close our eyes to that fact, that we should seriously pay attention to this historic event and put it as a day of uprising in the Republic of Serbia, and not at all that day where Serbs killed each other, where Zikica Jovanovic the Spanish killed, shot at two gendarmes in the White Church near Krupanja. If we could accept the amendments submitted by the SRS, this law would be something better. Without it, it's like we didn't do anything, like it wasn't paint. I believe that you will influence that a certain number of amendments, if not all, will be accepted and then the quality of this law would be corrected. Without it you may be able to pass, to vote this law, but the essence is not that. The fact that recently on the agenda of the Assembly session we have legal proposals that do not travel the future, although someone has said – without some laws we will not have a good future, whether we will celebrate this holiday or that holiday. It's not all the same. We're looking for a historical foundation, a foundation in some facts, but it doesn't solve the many problems that have grown. It will solve the creation of an ambience, which this government probably can't. If she failed to do so in the first year of her term, if she failed to do so at the moment when there were no great blackmail from coalition partners, surely if one of the coalition partners is told – let's not make problems until December 9th, then this government cannot expect anything, but probably a solution or part of a solution to the big problems for the citizens of Serbia will be the next choices where they have the possibility that those who did not work in their interest, on the contrary, have done a lot against their interest to assess by assessing what they deserve. Of course, the results of this government can be estimated with one estimate equal to the unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63449	It was used 11 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, Mirko Chikiriz, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63450	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, surely all the serious and responsible people, and that is what I think most MPs consider to be state holidays as topics on which we should not be divided. It is certain that there are different concepts and interpretations of historical events, depending on which current policy the MPs represent. What is acceptable for the SPO, of course, is that the Day of Statehood, Meeting, the day when Karadjordje on Orasac raised the uprising against the Ottoman Empire, the date that is very important to us as traditionalists and nationalists in Serbia's history, is as important as the day in Kragujevac in 1835 when the Constitution of the Serbian Library was issued under oath. History has said enough about these events, and I think these are the dates around which I haven't noticed that there is a dispute in the National Assembly and I don't believe there will be one. As for the Day of Truce in World War I, I think it is necessary for all those victims, including my great-grandfather Stevan Chikiriz, who died after the Battle of Cer in World War I, to say that Serbia was then on the right side of the world conflict that caused a series of chain divisions. The official cause of the war was the murder, or assassination of the Austrian Crown Prince Ferdinand in Sarajevo, but the real reason for the war was political and economic. Regardless of the Serb army in which our population was killed by about a third of the male population, which the country suffered a huge destruction, I think it is a moment to remember, that is, to remind us that both the Serb soldiers and the Serbian government were acting at the time, as well as the Serb population. Before World War I, the Serbian government took loans from the German government, with which it was in World War I. For three years, the government was out of the country, and after the end of World War I inflation, compared to the World War I period, 38%, and during World War I, the Serbian government regularly paid off the enemy German government's loans it took before the war, and the German finance minister then said it would be written into the world's financial analyses that a government that escaped from its country with a complete army would officially repay loans to the enemy government. No matter what the Serb army destroyed the three empires, the Serb army then did not crush anyone's faith, brought down no church, no religious object, no mosque. The Serbian Renewal Movement was also brought up in the tradition of such a Serb army. For this reason, in all the war conflicts of the 1990s, we felt that we should not behave in the way the Ustashas used to behave, that we should not crush anyone's faith, that we should not be included in the crime book and that the Serb army should not be included in the book of shame in that the facts of war will be used to retaliate innocent civilians or to trample their faith. As for the First World War truce day, of course it is one of the most significant dates, but it is also the date that the future leader of the Third Reich Adolf Hitler remembered well and how well it was in the place where the German government signed the capitulation in World War I, in the same place after the occupation of France in World War II, forced the French and in the same car to sign the capitulation. This is also important because of the Day of Remembrance of Victims in World War II, the victims of fascism, because the victims of fascism were mostly in the period during the period of fascist retribution, there were about 32-33,000 victims, mostly from central Serbia and the largest part from Shumadia. It is obvious that the German fascists well remembered who gave the occupiers in World War I a decisive blow from there the main force of the Serb army, and it is not necessary to remind the public that it is from these parts that the Duke Stepanovic, and Duke Misic, and Radomir Putnik and all other famous Serbian dukes and military leaders. The Serbian Renewal Movement of course believes that October 21st, the day of the shooting of civilians in Kragujevac, is a crime, one of the greatest in the history of world wars, a crime without precedent. Of course it should be a day of memory of Serbian victims suffered by occupiers of German, Bulgarian, Hungarian, Albanian and Italian. But for the sake of the public, and for the sake of the Minister and for the sake of all MPs, and for those topics that we talked about yesterday, we need to know that civilians unfortunately didn't just get killed by a fascist occupier. Civilians were also killed primarily by Ustasha in the Independent State of Croatia, in which over a million Serbs were killed. As a result, the Serbian Renewal Movement considers it appropriate that April 22nd should also be a day of dedication to the victims of the Ustasha genocide, as the Ustasha camp Jasenovac was released on that day in 1945, in which more than seven hundred thousand Serbs were killed. But what happened after, or before the end of World War II and after it was over. Unfortunately, Partisan troops have conducted revolutionary terror throughout Serbia. Several dozen mass graves of Serb civil class and Serb hosts remained in Serbia. It never takes the fact that there are more victims in one mass grave, it doesn't have to be exclusive and the only argument that the date is more important or that crime gets bigger. But unfortunately, more Serbs suffered from partisan and as a consequence of victims of revolutionary terror than from a fascist occupationist. Therefore, for us on July 17th, the day General Dragoljub Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic was killed in 1946 is the appropriate date for this to be the day of memory of the victims of communism and revolutionary terror. For what? Just because Draža Mihajlovic was in this victorious Serbian army in the First World War, he refused to sign the capitulation, one of the first leaders of the resistance movement against fascist Germany, and his executioner Josip Broz Tito was on the side of the Austrian army in the First World War, even wounded in one battle as an Austrian corporal, and that history played with a hero and a executioner in such a way that the executioner Dragoljub Dragoljub Draghi Mihajlovic came head. What is also important for us from the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Day of Victory over Fascism is also Europe's Day. For what? It is one of the most important holidays on the European continent and in a European calendar defining Europe's future appearance, because from the day of victory over fascism it has become possible to build Europe as we know it today. From the continent of division, hatred, wars, destruction, the genocide of Europe we hope to become a continent of unity of diversity. The place of dialogue and co-operation and Serbia, unlike some earlier years, will soon be a member of the united Europe. I'll remind you no matter what in world civilization is considered a lot of reasons that Europe is the fluid of world civilization, which is true, they call it an old lady. Our well-known writer Svetlana Velmar-Jankovic said that the old Europe lady, as proof of her civilizational flows in the 20th century, left behind unfortunately the most massive tombs. Most mass graves, I say, remain behind fascists, somewhere over 80 million people have been killed as victims of fascist terror, but unfortunately one step at a time with them are communists who were alone in the Soviet Union, in Stalin's revenge killed somewhere between 20 million and 35 million people, the exact number has never been established. That's why I think there's time for us to take SPI proposals through the board of directors and, in addition to the day of memory of the victims of fascism, which is quite justifiable. Indeed, as a Kragujevac MP, I must say that in everyday talks with the citizens of Kragujevac, I think it is necessary to remind that after fascist retribution in Kragujevac every house, every house was marked by a black banner, a maltene that there was no family from which at least one member of the family died, and there was a family that had completely disappeared. The students of the First Men's High School suffered, people were arrested in cafes, on the street, etc., at jobs, at schools in hospitals, people in the markets. I think this crime is truly unprecedented, but unfortunately, as I mentioned earlier on the arrival of Partisans, that number was also greater, the victims of unsuspecting anti-fascists. As a result, the SPO is every 21st of October in Šumarica, but also in Gromovic's Cessma, where we raised a memorial to the victims of revolutionary terror in 1996. If we were divided, if these people were divided during our lives, we feel that now that they are not alive, they should not be divided and that both victims deserve absolute respect. By hiding the victims, avoiding them talking about it, we achieve two negative things. First, the one who committed the crime thinks the crime is worth it, and secondly, if we don't label that crime and don't give him a place that belongs to him undisputed, we're going to be in danger at some other historical crossroads that the crimes happen again. That's why all I said on behalf of the SPO is not digging up old wounds, it's not an invitation to some new revenge. It's an invitation to bury Serbian-Serbian wounds, because we've had something really scandalous until recently. For decades, it was celebrated in Serbia on July 7th, the day that Zikica Jovanovic, the Spanish, shot neither at the German occupier nor at the Italian, Albanian, Hungarian, Bulgarian, but at two gendarmes. I think it's a huge responsibility to everyone in the National Assembly who talks about these things, but all the SPO has said is historical facts and it's all in the spirit of national reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63451	14 minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, and after it is the Messenger of the people Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps it would be most appropriate for this debate to start with that people's debate – the village is burning and the grandmother is combing. Today we are discussing four amendments to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, and we are not discussing what is really the most important at this time, which is the situation at KIM. Problems not to be reduced but to increase. Eulex soldiers, armed to the teeth, attacking the Serbs at KIM. In the barricades, the Shiptari kill the Serbs. Borko Stefanovic is walking around Brussels. This morning, we learn in the media that he has again reached some sort of agreement on the regional representation of Shipara, about the recognition of diplomats of the Shiparians. Prior to that, he recognised ID cards, registrations, cadastres, through the catastra Supreme Court of the so-called Supreme Court. Kosovo as a second-degree instance in resolving possible disputes with catastrian operatives and says it is still doing so under the full legitimacy of the government. What is the role of the government in this, we do not know because Parliament's president will not schedule a session where the entire government would sit here and discuss with the MPs what is the most important issue in Serbia today, which is the issue of resolving the problem of Serbs at KIM. Unfortunately, neither the ruling coalition in parliament nor the government of the Republic of Serbia understands these most pressing problems, and then also distracts the MPs and the public who follows the work of this parliament with laws that nothing in Serbia depends on. We're wondering which troubles you, Minister, has made you suggest that this law be changed by an emergency procedure. To remind you, you passed the law in 2001, DOS passed it. DOS changed it in 2007. Here we are in 2011, you still need to change this law. What, among other things, did you write in an explanation why this law should be passed by emergency procedure? For the sake of the public, I'll read this part. Really scary, scandalous. You say - that state and other bodies, companies and other forms of organisation would be prepared in a timely manner or organised in a way that ensures that there is no interruption in the performance and provision of services to citizens and in order to prevent the creation of adverse consequences for citizens and the state is proposed to ensure that this law is brought about by an urgent procedure. Minister, if you've read this, you must have laughed. It's more sad than funny, though. You're a serious man, take care, when you're representing the law at least read the explanation and let it get right there. What dangerous consequences do citizens and states suffer if this law is not amended and these four members of the law do not change? Tell us, we expect you to communicate with the MPs, see what damage the citizens and the states of Serbia will suffer. You have heard from colleagues of the SRS, and MPs of the ruling coalition, arguments for adopting or not adopting this law and for different solutions, at least as far as the SRS is concerned. Of course, when it comes to the title of the law, it is undeniable that the law should be called the Law on State and Other National Holidays. Of course, we heard here that we should not be locked up in some national frameworks, we should be citizens, etc. Of course, it is totally incomprehensible and unacceptable to us. If we are in the national frameworks, then of course we are people and citizens and we do not understand that remark we heard here from the ruling coalition MPs. I don't want to mention your name because I don't want to cause a replica anyway. The reasons for the adoption and clarification of individual solutions, which is one of the parts that you explained to us, which is why you have proposed amendments and additions to this law, and you say, in addition, that the Republic of Serbia celebrates and the day of truce in the First World War, mentions all innocent victims in the period between 1914 and 1918. Unfortunately, the history of the Serbian people, the history of the Serbian state, is filled with dates that we could mark in memory of the victims under these or those circumstances. You heard the excellent historical aspects of the SRS proposal and I won't repeat it, but this came to my attention, because you further explained that the allies did everything to recover and arm the Serb army again and it rose up on the Thessaloniki front in a terrible battle in Kamakcalan, a place in the clouds and a place in another Serbian memory. I must tell you that I also personally have a special relationship with this day and towards the Thessaloniki front and the Caymans for the reason that my late grandfather Stevo was a volunteer on the Thessaloniki Front and fought on the Kymacchalan, but we, his successors and not only his successors, but the heirs of all the Serbs from Livna, where I, as the day of my victims, marked Fire Mary, when the Ustashas slaughtered all the Serbs of the men in Lebanon at the end of 1941. So, since there have been a lot of personal opinions here, of course, and when I say this, I speak for the SRS, and I remind you that almost a year ago we submitted a motion for a resolution where we asked to condemn the crimes so-called. NDH, Ustasha crimes during 1941. It must have gotten to you in the government, but you've estimated there's no need to discuss it. Of course we should, and these are ways to remember the crimes committed against Serbian peoples in different historical moments. We don't know for what reason you've changed this law and suggest that Serbia's Statehood Day be celebrated for two days, that it be informally celebrated. As far as we're concerned with the SRS, we don't mind holidays that will be celebrated as much as you think there should be, but the unworkable marking and the increase in the number of holidays for us is unacceptable. That's why we said that the only holidays national to be marked are St. Sava's Day, Vidovday and Meeting. New Year's Eve, you heard the explanation of fellow Martinovic, and we did not change it off the holiday list because it was an offensive date, but that is why we asked that May 1st not be celebrated unemployably. We do not expect you to accept our amendments, because you have your reasons for proposing this, but it is interesting that this does not say that this is the EU's mandate. Here, the first law you don't work, you didn't file it here by dictatorship. We've heard really different arguments here from colleagues from the ruling coalition, comparing us with Japan, so now it's important how many Japan has holidays, how many Serbia's holidays. Well, let's compare us to Japan how much the average profit in Japan is, and how many in Serbia, how many unemployed are on average in Japan and how many in Serbia. So it's completely impossible to compare. It is true that, unfortunately, in Serbia today, there are at least a million people who have been fired during the 2001 Dossow authorities. For years, DOS in different forms and that these people are every day unworkable, but unfortunately, not holiday, because they can't celebrate, but have nothing to eat. And here, when we heard all sorts of suggestions why it wasn't marked this day or that day, why it wasn't marked October 5th, the colleagues said as the day of democracy. It is better to mark that day as the day of Serbia and Serbia's national interests and the day of the introduction of DS dictatorship, etc., all that has hit Serbia in the last 11 years. Then the question -- that's why there's no day of criminal then aggression? You don't mention it, because you're doing everything on the orders of Washington and Brussels, so you can't, God forbid you insult your friends. We'll continue to discuss details, of course. Accept at least the amendments to the SRS, when you've already come up with the idea that you're doing this rather unnecessary job, so that at least once for some long time you can make this law acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63453	Used 11 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63454	I'd just like to apologize for this explanation for an emergency procedure. Your objection is fully in place. Unfortunately, we felt when the initiative was launched to get the law into the procedure before October 21st and November 11th. Since that didn't happen, I completely agree that the explanation given was inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63455	The People's MP Dusan Maric has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63456	Ladies and gentlemen, with an anthem, a coat of arms and a flag, state holidays are the most important symbols of every country. These symbols serve to gather citizens of these countries around them, to identify with their country, with their homeland. It is therefore very important to choose for national holidays dates and events around which there is the highest possible degree of consent and national unity. We in Serbia, unfortunately, cannot agree on anything, so we cannot agree on these national holidays. Every new government makes a new calendar of national holidays. Milosevic had his laws and holidays. Then in 2001, DOS passed its law, new holidays in 2007, new law, new holidays. Now, we have a proposal to announce two more holidays. What do we have as a result, what's the consequence? I'm telling you that there are no citizens of Serbia who would now meet on the street and ask him to list all the national holidays he would know how to answer. I claim that under full moral responsibility. Even if someone knew the answers, they wouldn't know what holidays were working and who were not working. It speaks of our moral condition, the state of society, the state of the state of the state. Even, I say, before this debate and before we did a little bit of this matter, maybe there was no MP and minister who knew how to name all the national holidays. In my opinion, the main reason why we are discussing this law today is precisely the daily political reasons, because certain ruling parties felt the need to leave their mark in this area, their mark. If that were not the case, we would not be discussing this law before an agreement was reached on state holidays and authorities and oppositions and partisans and Chetniks and Socialists and Equalitys and Karadjordjevic and Obrenovic, and all relevant national institutions. We don't have a deal because there weren't any conversations, and it wasn't because the government didn't want to talk. If the goal is to finally win the state holidays that will be permanent, which citizens will know, which will not change every four years with the change of government, then the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament had to gather all relevant political parties in Serbia, gather representatives of all relevant institutions, the Educational, National Council, SANU, SPC, to make one deal, and when the agreement is made, then we have a bill here, that we all vote for this law and that Serbian citizens finally get state holidays that will last for the next 10 or 20 years. Fortunately or unfortunately, because of tragic and perilous history, we have many significant dates, significant and tragic events, so I simply cannot believe that two, three dates around which one general consensus would be reached would not be found. Fortunately, I say, or unfortunately, depending on how we look, we wouldn't have to make up holidays like some other countries did. Maybe some MPs don't know, when the Americans decided to declare a holiday over the holidays, as they said, they were in a dilemma, these governors, that's what the presidents of their states were called, so they were in a dilemma which date to choose. They're a state without history. What could they choose as a date? They could have, say, when the first steamer with goods from Africa arrived in New Orleans, the date when they killed 10 million Indians or the date when the rest of the Indians made reservations, since none of those dates were appropriate, then the English, who were otherwise self-loving, came to realize that for a day, a holiday over the holidays, they declared the day themselves free from themselves. When Americans could agree on that bizarre date and impose it as a very significant day for half the planet, then I cannot believe that institutions in Serbia and political parties in Serbia could not agree on Vidovdan, Meetings and other major dates. I was thinking about why this law was exactly on the agenda of the congregation and why two holidays are being offered. I have concluded that it is a purely daily policy and one rotten compromise between the two parties of the ruling coalition. The first one of the coalition partners encouraged by a single campaign in the media and with these 12,000 signatures collected in Kragujevac suggested that on October 21st, the day of death of students in Kragujevac. We in the SRS support it. But then the other coalition party seemed a little awkward to declare a holiday and it would be a holiday the day the German people committed a terrible slaughter on the part of the Serb people, and Germany is the EU pillar, and the ruling elite at all costs wants to become an EU member. Then the second coalition partner made a balance, proposing a second holiday, and that the second holiday be the day after World War I a treaty was signed with the German occupier. This first day, the day of the truce, we have because of friends of the regime from Brussels, and this second date of October 21st, the day of remembrance is for the citizens of Serbia. Now, what's interesting is what the Verse of Radeta said, interesting are the circumstances in which we discuss this law. I am really asking the question – is it, in addition to existing national and religious holidays, and thank God, we have them in my opinion and too much, is the most important issue that the Serbian Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be dealing with today, the most important issue of declaring two new holidays? I remind you, two new holidays will be given to a state that doesn't know its territory. We still don't know our limits. We have unresolved border disputes with Croatia, with BiH, with Macedonia and with Albania. In northern Kosovo and Metohija, we have practically been in a semi-war situation for two months. There's nothing to eat 700,000 people. A million people celebrate today. She celebrates every day of the year. It's bad days for them because they're out of work. We here in the Assembly are dealing with declaring new laws and declaring new days of unemployment. I will conclude with the conclusion that it is quite a disgrace and a shame that in 2011, with all these aspirations towards the EU, the Serb people who survived a terrible genocide in World War I and World War II, the Serb people who have more than a million victims of Ustasha terror, have no memory of these victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63457	It was used 7 minutes and 30 seconds, used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63458	I just said that I'm really accepting this remark here and you brought it out, that there was no reason for an emergency procedure. What I cannot accept is that we are passing this law out of daily political need. The only reason, therefore, I assure you, was because we got the initiative, we saw the signatures of all state officials, most state officials, most of the country's national institutions, scientific and professional public, most political parties, or the leader of political parties, put signatures on that initiative and we counted that we found a date that reflects unity on something, on one topic, at least that was one date that marked the Day of Remembrance of Victims in World War II. Obviously, this debate, unfortunately, shows that there are controversy and controversy about this too. But our motive, when I say ours, I mean the Ministry and the Government, was the only one. I don't see anyone on this subject making any political profit. But I agree that there was no reason for an emergency procedure, and it is true that we have much more important topics at this point, than the amendment and addition of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63459	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. You've got 26 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63460	Mr Ljajic, you have not heard any opposition from the Serbian Radical Party MPs, you have heard only criticism and some suggestions. These two dates, none of the Serbian Radical Party MPs disputed that they were significant. So we make it a little bit right at the beginning, so that by some mistake, they're radicals against everything. Let's discuss this right now. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mr. Ljajic, thank you for proving twice what I'm constantly getting warnings about here – DOS doesn't know how to look at the calendar. Oh, yeah. You submitted the draft law on October 20th, and the text itself says, "unworkday October 21st." He couldn't pass the law in 15 minutes. However, you missed this second term on November 11th, but good. However, we now need to introduce a holiday of democracy. You're aware it's nonsense, an emergency procedure. But most of them accepted an emergency procedure. You know, most people's decisions must be respected. So most people don't know how to look at the calendar. Let's move on. You know for yourself, Mr. Ljajic, when you go to the UN website and look at the holidays, the blue letters are blue. Some are holidays, some are dates of marking. We have the Day of the Planet, then this Day, and that Day, etc. A lot more than red letters in the Orthodox calendar. Do you agree? If you look at the EU, you can see their order of dates. Now, whether it's a holiday or not, you'll also see red letters. Mr. Ljajic, DOS and pro-European parties, these, they have no answer to one question. Why haven't you declared 11 years a holiday the day World War I ended? You can see how those in the EU said - Peace Day, not capitulation. This capitulation and dissatisfaction has led to World War II. Isn't that right, Mr. Ljajic, since you had an "A" in history? Unlike Chikiriz, a man makes a mistake and says, on May 9, 1945, Europe united, and it was divided because of the cold war, but what's worth it, he's from the SPO, they're in factions now. You see, on May 9th, the Day of Victory is celebrated everywhere in Europe and is kind of marked. Serbia is not calling for central celebrations. Also marked is November 11th, usually in Paris in front of the House of Military Disabilities, etc. For years, something hasn't been calling for Serbia. The two dates are important to us, as the Serbian people and Serbia were the winners. She was on the side of the Allies. It's been properly defined, isn't it, Mr. Ljajic? We've defined ourselves quite correctly. But they don't invite us. He goes to Mesic's party, and he gets the medal. Serbia cannot be present. What's changed? These allies have changed, Mr. Ljajic. Now these allies or their elites representing those states are doing this. To them, the EU and NATO have no alternative - 12 stars, 12 hours, right? Number 12 is Tadic, number six is Canak. It's you, Mr. Ljajic on the eight. You know, there are those stars in Hollywood. Every artist gets his star on the sidewalk. With radicals, everyone got the yellow star of the EU. These are 12 dilbers representing the EU here, and they don't care about Serbia. Zumbul Nikolic is number one, and number 11 is Dacic. I see here he's toothing. They're pro-Europeans. This is a pro-European idea. Did you hear earlier, Mr. Ljajic, that the new democratic government had not remembered, that it was in some way marking the date of the Serbs' death in World War II? Now you've found October 21st. It is a symbolic date. But can he cover Jasenovac? You know, there's an open question. Let me explain one thing to you, since you probably haven't read that part of history. After August 31st, 1941 she took revenge – one on the table, one on the 50, and the Sword was cleaned and thousands were killed. We also have a Kragujevac, so we have 2700 with names and last names in the King and that I don't order any further. You know, in that sense, it was our intervention, not to question that date. I'm just surprised you didn't show some pro-European and pro-NATO initiative to put any other very significant dates at least on the label, if any are celebrated. So let's say, the date of formation of the Resistance. It's a very important date. You see, they have now become a planetary force. Now they're shaking everywhere the regimes are supposed to change. Then, Mr. Ljajic, the date when democracy exploded in the best light. That's the day that MP voted from Bodrum. Remember? And it's a very important date. Democracy implies -- you can be in Turkey on vacation, but you're in the O.R. on this card. Right, ma'am? Furthermore, you could also set a date for European security in traffic over tram lines. When Gilas reconstructs the tram tracks, then the curves can't go around because they crash. And that date should be marked. I'm surprised you didn't set December 9th as your future date. Mr. Ljajic, be a little psychic. As for the signature, you must have 12 signatures. Here they are. All these dilbers that are for the EU. For them, the EU has no alternative – and Vuk Draskovic, and Cedomir Jovanovic, and Canak, and Suljo, and you, and Dinkic, here it is, blowing into a flute, Krkobic is struggling to hear something. They're all here. So you could have corned up in advance that December 9th was D day, as you announced. Otherwise, to let you know what day "D" is gonna be, that ninth, that's where the question of yes or no opens, about what? A paraphras to candidate status for the start of negotiations on eventual EU accession there by 2389. You know, on that same day, there's a second report on Kosovo's progress as an independent state. You could've done it on December 9th, you were raping from everything, you proved to the bosses in Europe, that's what they say -- to your leg, you know, when you call in Brussels, what's the deal? Your leg, your aport, have you carried out the agenda? You're not. Get back. The 9th is falling from the heart, and you're raping KIM. It's a very significant date. These are some innovations. You could have, Mr. Ljajic, since everything is with us now, you could have put this Pride Parade into the state holiday and then Dacic wouldn't think about what security assumptions are, whether there would be more of those who celebrate and love each other, because it's a holiday of love, or those who protest. At that time, you can prevent the arrest of all priests. Why? What they're saying is their theological delusion. Two thousand years they have a theological delusion. You freed them from black thoughts, to slave with canons. You could've given the Pride Parade, the Pride, as they say, and then there's no, state empty, pendrek running by the law. It could be St. Trifun, Valentine's Day, it's what people worship today, online, Facebook, etc., it's in. You could have set a privatisation day in the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't have to be celebrated, it can be marked. It is the first privatisation and immediately the first association – job loss. You could have determined the holiday of successfully lost 500,000 jobs. Mr. Ljajic, you are in favour of work and social policy, although you act as an opposition, but just to let you know you have been in power for eight years, you are most directly responsible for losing your jobs. What can I do for you? That's your formation. You have to make a sacred place out of work to make it sacred. Mr. Ljajic, some celebrate May 1st and 2nd as a holiday of work, and some other countries have a holiday of freedom of work and this is the first week of September and October. So, you get rid of ideological prejudices, but that's not what you're interested in. You are interested in this - there is no alternative, EU. So it's Privatisation Day. Since 5 October you said – privatisation is a cure for all our problems. When it's known, it's settled. I also propose a day of free action with a golden collage on which Mladjan Dinkic would be on, a higher medal, a younger smile or better you have this poster – Junior, Gilas and Miskovic, so now Vucic has to take care of what his Miskovic put there. You can do that, and it's a strong association, and it's supposed to be marked for centuries and centuries, so people don't make a mistake. Next, private bank day. There's a week's savings. Not that. Bank day. Not to tell you, 500,000 families can't pay their dues in a month. For 500,000 families, it's 1.5 million people, it's a very significant date. At the time of the celebration of that date, no interest is due to them for that day, so greater vision is the great benefit. It's Maxie Day, a day to mark. Why? Because that's when Serbia got a tax slip. He went to Cyprus tax, and that could have solved some of our problems. After all, that date would remind Ivica Dacic of going to some receptions, so when he meets Miskovic, not to make out with him, so that the cameras show it, but to say – when are you going to pay for it, man? How much tax, contribution, VAT, etc.? It's important stuff. That we won't do eight days of celebrating, celebrating, that's a special story. One is a celebration, the other is a celebration with unhappiness, such as a holiday of work. At the time of the work holiday, the lambs and pigs in the Kosutnjak are not working, and all the happy and unions are satisfied. What else could you do? Why are you not on March 24th - the day of the Serbian people's criminal NATO bombing? That's what everyone in Serbia would sign. We now, Mr Ljajic, are collecting some petition against the EU and we are doing well with the job, the EU, the NATO Pact, has no principled difference, and both are kidnapping KIM, both killing people, Serbs. You know, Mr. Ljajic, 12, 13 days ago, this man who died in Brdjani, Mojsic, he's 1002. A Serb in KIM since the UN came to the killing, and no case has been resolved. So he's shot to death. If the Serbs are coked, everything is according to European standards. Bonsteel. He can go to Uroševec because it's completely clean, there are no Serbs. Where there are two Serbs in some place, in some enclave, Americans don't enter, it's not a safe environment. A Serb can open acid water, and then it explodes, and then the chaos comes to the U.S. But where there are no Serbs, there can be a base, there can be investments, there can be anything. So NATO's criminal bombing can be marked, not celebrated. I know there are some of you who would celebrate. No, it's a date that's being marked. Why? It's happening. What event? Without any decision, the Security Council was beastly attacked by the Serbian people. Please don't listen to what Jamie Shay said about the date. Jamie Shay, you may remember him, was a spokesman for the NATO Pact, his right hand and his left knee of Javier Solana. He said -- NATO soldiers, only you quietly bomb, and so all of these Serbs will forget very soon. Since he said so, we'll be quick to forget, to return, to establish the 24th of March the day when the villains bombed the people. By the way, let me remind you, they have 62 reasons to bomb us. The first was a humanitarian disaster, and the 25th was to take down the dictator. What do you think of the dictators? You're in the coalition with them, did you sign a national reconciliation? The last reason Javier Solana listed before he retired – to make you accept European standards. So they killed us to accept European standards. God, if they put DOS in power, here are European standards, all living by European standards, we live by European standards. Didn't you forget that proposal for Valentine's Day? That's where the popularity of DOS will jump. You have no idea, no bounds, you're going to get your popularity up. I think we should consider whether this proposal is good on November 11th, Mr. Ljajic. Is that a good date? Why should we celebrate the truce? They're virtually making a truce over the Germans and the French and they have an internal need. By the way, Mr. Ljajic, since you had an "A" in history, Papa 12 made a European economic community, it's his idea to reduce French rematch to Germans, so they found coal, steel, etc., so it's gone now to this. One more thing, Mr. Ljajic, since you had an "A" in history, tell these ignorants. What do you want to tell them? In the EU there are statistics for 27, there are specific statistics for the EU 10 - Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary etc. There are SEEs, Southeast Europe - six. Who's in a group of six equals? BJRM, Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro, BiH, the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo. Six equals that your EU is looking at. Look, Mr. Ljajic. So, December 9th, the day you get money on candidate status to start preparing for negotiations on possible accession to possibly the EU in 2389. It's an epochal date. It's an epochal date. About that date, you 12 men gathered together. You represent it. You don't care about these holidays you've brought here, but to fill in a little time, to put in November 11th, supposed to be a truce in Europe after World War I. Let's get DeJere's eyes dirty, as something else has been fulfilled on the agenda, we're talking about something else, and we're not going to talk about the vital question of KIM. Already, drop the ball, waiting for December 9th. However, some of you can't wait to get a decision on December 9th that the EU is broken, that it doesn't exist. But it can't happen, it's still early. What's going to happen, that's not what you're thinking. It's important to squeeze. The important thing is that the Serbs were cut off by electricity in the north. Mr. Ljajic, not you, but the electricity industry. They've got two hours, and they don't have four hours. Why? Take care, you must not question the character and work of Borko and Boris Tadic. If you don't believe me, here, you go to the barricades. I was there yesterday listening to what people were telling me. They're afraid you'll throw them off the ballot list. Why? He says, "You can't win a voice there after all this, and to them it's all clear." Thank God, there's unity, so they're alive. So, there's a lot of these ideas about what might be a holiday, but the holiday nomenclature shows a system of values in a society. We are for this traditional system of values that does not tolerate ideological views, changes. You've changed the law on selecting MPs. It is theoretically possible that after the 126 MPs' sitting elections, it is interesting whether Miskovic, whether Saric, whether Karic, whether or not Beku, belongs. This is where normal laws are passed, according to which someone is rehabilitating, return property and you will get state holidays – when Miskovic's son was born, a state holiday when Beko first glued an excise stamp on whiskey and cigarettes when he smuggled them or you can smuggle this zoom when he stabbed the first plum in Bajcetina, because he's the EU's dad. That's what you would never say, Mr. Ljajic. When asked to choose between the EU and Kosovo, he said -- it's like asking me about two children. I draw the conclusion that he's an EU dad, I just don't know who Mom is. The EU comes to him with a child. What does he say is different from you? He'd rather lead Serbia to ruin than you. Mr Ljajic, for you a rewarding question – what is the difference between Chad and Tom? Does it make any difference? What's the difference between Wolf and Tom? It doesn't make any difference. What's going on with these posters, let it go, all of it to the dragon. Mr. Ljajic, these people of yours don't listen to you, they glued the highway, they put all your pictures through the picture of Vojislav Seselj. I understand, you've worked for The Hague tribunal and you have to prove yourself, that's what you like. However, Brammertz, when he comes, he still likes to take hold of the leg of this Vukčević, something avoids you, ends meetings quickly. Someone taped it up, and I know you're not into it, and you don't need to justify yourself. Anyway, I'm asking who stole your posters so pretty over Seselj? It's the same group that rips apart the posters. Now you can imagine which is the mental set of the one who rips apart posters with the character of Vojislav Seselj or throws something on the billboard. (President: People's MP, to throw ourselves all the way to the agenda, posters are very far away from the holiday. ) Mrs. Komic, posters are not far from the proposal for a holiday law. I can innovate here, give Mr. Rasim Ljajic various suggestions that could possibly compete in the future change to be a day to mark. (President: For four minutes, you're only talking about who's beautiful to whom, it's not a subject. It's not four, it's two, but it doesn't matter. Okay, Mrs. Comic, you'll understand me, the SRS is leading two political actions, one is – we want Seselj, and the other is – we will not be in the EU. Rasim, I hope you sign one petition and another petition. (President: These two actions should be related to the subject of the bill. Legal action, but it is mandatory to talk about the subject of the agenda. No problem, Mrs. Comic, don't be angry, and I'll offer you a signature. (President: I am not angry, but there are problems because you do not want to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I ask you to bring your political actions into contact with the topic of the agenda and we will have no problem. Today is a solemn day, finished with incubators, you do not need to punish us. We've worked it out, we've paid for the incubators and enjoy it. (President: National MP, I will begin to punish if you insist on violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. All right. Eight days without working in Serbia, from an economic point of view, it can be said that it is many days. However, I must correct those economists. And when it's not working, it's working, it's making cafes, it's wasting fuel, it's doing traffic, it's doing music, it's doing blue bridge. You know, these economic criteria for eight working days based on celebrations are off. That's clear to you, Mr. Ljajic, that's not a problem. What else is important now? You didn't want to think about changing some dates and some holidays that are already in the text of the law. That's where you showed that this government has this ideological definition when it comes to holidays. We've just wanted to do something else to our amendments, to throw out any ideological decree to stay at the holiday and on the day of the celebration, since it's holidays, what's generally accepted for everyone. That's where you didn't understand. You probably have an opportunity to consider amendments to understand the purpose of all these amendments and how much they are in the interest of all citizens. You said you got one initiative, there were lots of signatures, etc. Does that mean you can give everyone an idea to bring in an initiative of five, six, or seven times the number of signatures? Be careful. Another thing, Mr. Ljajic, you just heard from these people from the SRS, who are a little bit of an understanding in history, about the 4th of July, 1941, and on Dedinj what happened. And now some things happen on Santa. Did you see that? It says – "Cédentials in the first place." Then there is – a haystack in the first place. That's what Junior's doing. Then – Pinosava in the first place, Resnik in the first place. There are in Leskovec and Lower Razor etc. It's not a problem, but it's all in the first place, Kosanica, Kosančić, etc. There are different names, but everything comes first. Do you understand, Mr. Ljajic? Be careful, when something like this comes first, it turns out to be yours – the EU has no alternative. If you represent the view that the EU has no alternative, I must commend you. You could have brought us all the holidays of the European Union without forgetting our history, because our history is all denied. Well, to the reunion, Mr. Ljajic, you're the only one who's a state official who's allowed to go in there and talk to the people in that ditch. The Prime Minister must not appear in Arangelovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63461	Twenty-six minutes. The time at your disposal is up. Right on line, MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63462	Of course, in the spirit of the manner of Mr Krasic - one exact word, three half truths, and so Mr Krasic said that in 1945, when Fascism was defeated, the European Union was created, which, of course, is not true. But since I wrote my speech, I'll read it for the public. On May 9th 1945, it has double meaning, and since the European Community is based on anti-fascism flows in World War II and peace principles, which is difficult for the Serbian Radical Party to accept, tolerance, once again hard to accept, international co-operation, again quite unacceptable for radicals, it is one of the most significant holidays in the European calendar that defines the appearance of Europe, the future, because from the Day of Victory over Fascism in 1945 it is possible to build Europe as we know it today. From the continent's division of hatred, wars, destruction, genocide, Europe has hopefully become a continent of unity of diversity, a place of dialogue and co-operation, and we believe that Serbia will be a member of the European Union in a few years' time. In World War I, De Gaulle helped Poles, has a monument in Warsaw, in World War II he was an associate of Draža Mihajlovic and leader of the Resistance movement in France, and after World War II, one of the European Union's idea makers. The Germans and the French, who have been at war for 300 years, are now making common military formations and working well together, and I think they are probably the main levers in the European Union. It's a new logic, it's a new time, it's something that's good for Europe and the world, but it's obviously unacceptable for the Serbian Radical Party. Where this logic defends us there are no Serbs, we've lost our territory, but that's why there are mass graves, and it would seem to put us back in that position again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63463	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63464	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, firstly, the Serbian Radical Party is for peace and we have never advocated anything contrary to the principles of world peace. Those who are not for world peace are your political friends from the NATO Pact, who have been meeting death around the world and Europe since the NATO Pact was formed in 1949, your latest case is Libya. As for De Gaulle, you seem to forget De Gaulle's idea of Europe from Atalntic to Ural and never stood up for this and this kind of European Union, this is a freak formation of Germany, after 1991, which is obviously dominant in the European Union, but the English have already begun to rebel against this German domination and in the English Parliament you have an initiative that the UK is coming out of the European Union, I guess you know that as a national MP. As for Draža Mihajlovic and the Resistance movement, I don't know how Draža Mihajlovic fits in with your new political friend, former Tito's General Jovan Kapicic, who bitterly regrets killing many Serbs, but is sorry that he hasn't killed them yet, so when you dig through those mass graves, ask your friend Jovo Kapičić how many of these killed are the consequences of his political and military action after World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63465	National MP Zoran Krasic, two minutes. Please use the line by explaining what the misunderstanding is, not to spread the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63466	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I always follow the Rules of Procedure, since it's the Bible in this building. I'll hold on to May 9th, Mrs. Comic. Rasim will back me up because he had an "A" in history. A long time ago, the Allies knew Hitler would fall, and they tortured Germany. There were two ideas. One idea was that the territory of large Germany was scattered into as many small countries as possible and that the Germans were never united, because they were then a remethyling factor in Europe. Even so, Stalin had another idea, he said that the Prussian part was attached to him, that one hundred thousand nazis, not fascism, and the potamani, and the matter would be resolved. They didn't make a deal, and then there was—who gets to Berlin sooner. They surrounded Berlin, divided it into zones, then the Russians and the Germans built a wall, etc. After the 9th of May, a cold war began, so the Americans and the English preserved Ustashas, rat channels, and documents were stolen, etc. May 9th, as the Day of United Europe, is fiction. I don't mind that someone has a frozen picture, so it's nice, it's European, but it still needs, Mr. Rasim, a little history to learn, to know, because politics without history, it's just the same as coffee without a kamama.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63467	National MP Mirko Chikiriz, straight to replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63468	Finally, Mr Krasic admitted that I did not say that the community of then European peoples was created on May 9th 1945, but that it was the Day of Europe, the day of Europe's anti-fascist fight against the greatest evil of the 20th century, against fascism. Draža Mihajlovic, of course, was a great friend of Charla De Gaulle, Draža Mihajlovic was shot, not because he wanted to see Serbia in the east, but because he wanted to see Serbia in the west. Draža Mihajlovic remained faithful to his Western allies and to Serbia's pre-communist allies: the United States, Great Britain and France. Even then, when fate struck him as it hit the leader of the Resistance movement in Poland, Bor Komarovski or the leader of the Resistance movement in Bulgaria, when the great forces shared their spheres of interest, and unfortunately, these great patriots had to be sacrificed because of these world divisions. Therefore, the SPO, on the tradition of this mind and the pre-communist foundations of Serbia, wants to see Serbia in the society of the most orderly, progressive and advanced countries in the world. The logic we hear every day, if you go to kindergarten and ask the kids who's the smartest, every kid raises his hand and says "I"; whoever's the most beautiful, every kid says "I"; whoever breaks the window, nobody raises his hand. It's the logic of the SRS. They are, in all, the smartest, they are the best, they are the greatest patriots, and whoever is responsible for mass graves, who are responsible for the exodus of Serbs from Croatia, who are responsible for the loss of Kosovo and Metohija, radicals have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63469	Please, MPs, do not violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The right to say what he wants implies an obligation to listen to what you don't like, and the right to a replica is to explain what's wrong. Please don't invite me with your behavior to break the circle of replicas. If we want to participate in the dialogue, that dialogue must have rules that we all respect. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mrs Gordana Comic said, to correct incorrect allegations. So neither the SRS is responsible for any mass graves after World War II, it is an incredible nonsense, nor are we responsible for an exodus of Serbs from Republika Srpska. It would be better if Mr. Mirko Chikiriz asked his SPS coalition partners about how the fall of the Republika Srpska Krajina occurred than if he respected all the bad things that happened in the 1990s. Mr. Chikiriz, as far as General Draža Mihailovic is concerned, your policy has nothing to do with the goals that Draža Mihailovic fought for. You're lucky that man isn't alive today, at least he'd give you up publicly. As for this fantasy of yours that he was for the West, and against the East, I want to remind you of a historical fact. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, if in a matter of seconds I'm going to step over the time, on July 22, 1944, when it was already evident that the English had left him in the lurch, Draža Mihailovic gave a speech to the American airmen in which he said among other things - we Serbs will not be told how to mow and reap, but rather we want to conduct an independent policy. The sentence was not directed against the Soviet Union but rather against the English who wanted to force Joseph Broz to force the Serbian people. Read some historical sources, don't believe everything you're told by Vuk Draskovic and Danica Draskovic, they don't understand each other in Draž Mihailovic and the Ravnog Movement. At the time of his cabinet secretary, Mike Špiljka, I doubt that Vuk Draskovic studied very much the Equality History.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63471	National MP Mirko Chikiriz, two minutes. Please bring this circle of replicas to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63472	When I talked about responsibility, I talked about responsibility for policymaking and the consequences of the uncontested resulting from such a policy and such a way of thinking. Your former vice president, who now represents himself as some radical party or vegetarian or "light radical party," didn't even know about the Z4 plan in Krajina. He didn't even read it, he said – we won't reject plan 3 4. The result of the rejection of that plan, which you were for, is similar to the exodus of Serbs. Draža Mihailovic, of course, remained faithful to Western values and the SPO believes that all ideologies are now, at the beginning of the 21st century, that the ultimate ideology of all progressive parties in Serbia is the EU, because there is quite enough space and understanding in the EU between left-wings and right-wings, Republicans, monks, mondialists, cosmopolitans, etc. and you can see that in that bouquet of diversity, the EU works well. Do not look forward to the EU's collapse, but let's see how our Serbia can be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63473	I think this is the end of a circle of replicas, and we're away from the misunderstandings expressed in the exhibits. There are no more reports on the list of MPs and statements for the word in the principled search, so I ask whether before the principled search is concluded they want the word of the president or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not used his right or the minister? No, I don't. ) If no one is answering for a word anymore, and before I conclude the principle search on the draft law, on the basis of Articles 87 and 90, I would like to give notice that the usual one-hour break will be set after the conclusion of the principled search and that we will be doing a principle search in the afternoon on the draft law amending the law on salaries in public authorities and public services and that this will be the subject of our work this afternoon. If we need to work after 1800 hours to complete the search, then in accordance with the pace of our work, we'll finish the work, and if we don't, we'll be done before 6:00. It depends on the way we work. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. I thank the participants at the session. At least we found Minister Rasim Ljajic to be a historical figure. I'm setting a break by 1400 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the afternoon session. Notification of the invitations to the session. I'm notifying you to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, called for today's meeting, in addition to the representatives of promoter Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Zoran Stankovic, the Minister of Health attends both Zorica Pavlovic and Dubravka Saranovic, assistant health ministers and Daniela Rajkovic, the public service executives at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments in State Agreements and Public Services You have received a bill submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to a relatively number of MPs of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for the word, and with the order of the MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure, MPs who wish to participate in the debate are obliged to submit a list of names and names of MPs who wish to participate in the debate before the opening of the hearing, and to ask that MPs who wish to exercise that right from the Rules of Procedure do so before the opening of a joint principled search. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Nikola Krpic, PUPS Parliament Group; MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP group SPS - JS; MP Vjerica Radeta, MP of the SRS. If any of the other parliamentary groups would like one of their members to be able to represent her during the principle search on the agenda I will soon open, please inform us so that we can inform the National Assembly. Since the beginning of this afternoon's work is relatively unusual at 1400 hours, I ask once again whether all parliamentary groups, or representatives of parliamentary groups who wish to participate in the debate, have submitted a list of names and last names. The SRS parliamentary group did so in time and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. They add as always. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Zoran Stankovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63475	Dear Members, allow me to present in short lines the basic postulates of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. As you know, this law was passed in June 2010 in the Serbian government and has since been in the assembly procedure. I've had the honor and trust to present and defend this law before the MPs today. Some who had an obligation didn't come and the reasons you'll judge for yourself. I will try to present to you the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services in the next presentation. The aim of the law is to create conditions for implementing reforms in the financing of healthcare, i.e. health insurance at both primary and secondary levels of health care and compulsory health insurance. In order to achieve this goal, it is essential to create above all conditions for a different way of calculating the salaries of workers in healthcare institutions that depend on the results of work. The new system of billing and paying of employees in health institutions, the salary consists of the basic salary, part of the salary based on the work effect, allowance and other. In this way, in the healthcare system, unlike other public service employees, a new way of calculating and paying salaries is established, making it necessary to implement amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act in order to create a precondition for establishing new types of healthcare financing. In this way, conditions will be created, to introduce a new model of payment at the primary level of healthcare for providing health care services in the home of health, by applying the payment model per capita – perkapi. The proposal to introduce a new model of financing the primary level of health care is seen primarily in establishing a methodology for the fair distribution of funds to homes of health, as well as a fair system of compensation to healthcare professionals, i.e. the possibility of rewarding according to the results of work. At secondary and tertiary levels of health care, a change in the funding system is planned by introducing a funding model to diagnostically related groups, the so-called Diarrhea system, or diagnostically related groups. This basically implies that packages of services corresponding to individual diagnostic related groups will be introduced and based on these packages, i.e. the number of contracted packages at one year level, transfer of funds to health institutions, at secondary and therapeutic level of healthcare will be carried out. Also, for all other health institutions where the payment model "perkapi" or "diarrhea" system is not applied, payment for certain health services will also depend on the results of the work and thus the salaries employed by those state institutions. In the process of implementing a reform of the financing of healthcare areas, i.e. health insurance as part of public finance reform, the establishment of a sustainable financing system, i.e. the ever-growing needs of citizens for health care and limited opportunities for separation from GNI, as an experience of European countries and other developed countries, the Republic of Serbia has adopted several documents to achieve this objective in advance. At a session held on 1 February 2002, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Health Policy document in Serbia aimed at reforming the health care system, i.e. health insurance, by implementing reforms in the way of paying for health services, i.e. implementing health care, resulting in the introduction of a new system of financing the salaries of health care professionals in health care institutions whose salaries are provided from the financing of the Republican Health Insurance Fund. In order to change the way in which the salaries of health employees were financed in 2007, the EU project "Protection and capitulation in primary health care" was approved, which was financed by KAC, which provided funds for the preparation and management of the payment model by the designated insurance company. At the end of 2009, the World Bank approved the Republic of Serbia direct budget assistance, a loan to implement health care financing reform, budget support for public sector spending reform, adopted by the National Assembly by adopting the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 107/09 and 91/10. The loan implies transferring funds to Serbia's budget, with certain conditions met in three stages. The real phase was realized in 2010. The funds have been transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The prerequisite for the implementation of the second phase is the introduction of a productivity factor in the salaries of health employees, i.e. by the adoption of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. The deadline of June 2010 was moved to the beginning of 2011. Thus, by granting the loan or by adopting the above-mentioned law, the Republic of Serbia has assumed the obligation to adopt laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. The implementation of the third phase depends on the fulfillment of the second condition, i.e. the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. At a session held on 31 August 2009, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, additional financing of a health project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No 73/09 in order to build capacity for the development of a sustainable health care system based on the evaluation of results, restructuring of health care conditions and improving financing, management and decision-making in the health care system in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, one of the objectives that needs to be achieved is to support hospitals in adapting the structure of employees and setting up a system of paying employees according to the impact and rewarding employees to achieve better results and more patient satisfaction. The National Assembly at the session, held on 23 November 2010, adopted a Health Protection Development Plan for the Republic of Serbia "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 88/10, which planned to introduce a new way of financing health institutions that carry out health work at the primary level, i.e. to conduct payment by a defined insurance company, so-called "the National Assembly of Serbia". Percapita. Starting with the pre-mentioned commitments undertaken by the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as the competent authority for the area of public sector wages, in co-operation with the Ministry of Health, it prepared and provided the Government with the adoption of draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. The cabinet session, held on 10 June 2010, adopted a proposal for this law. From the outset, the Republic of Serbia, by taking over the above-mentioned international obligations, also assumed the obligation to change the way of financing health care, as a consequence of which there is a change in the way in which salaries are paid to employees in health care institutions operating in state property, i.e. changes in the area of salaries of health workers who are paid from public spending, i.e. from the financing of the Republic Health Insurance Office. In order to start and implement reforms in the financing of healthcare, it was necessary to recognise both health workers and other healthcare professionals in the wage accounting system. Therefore, the law on salaries in state authorities and public services is proposed to adopt a regulation governing corrective coefficients, the highest percentage increase in the basic salary, criteria and criteria for part of the salary to be effected, as well as the way in which the salary is calculated. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. A new way of calculating the salaries of staff in healthcare institutions paid out by means of compulsory health insurance was proposed on 1 to 4. Thus far, the current Public Service Payments Act has regulated a system of pay for all public service employees, health institutions, social protection institutions, cultural institutions, compulsory social security organisations and others in a unique way, without knowing the specificity of individual areas, without recognising the need to introduce a category of rewards to work, i.e. labour impact, in the public service wage system. Since it is necessary to make a change in the way in which employees' salaries are financed in the health care and health care system, in order to ensure greater quality of health care services, as well as better work results, a time and greater patient satisfaction. A new system has been proposed for the account of employees in health institutions financed by compulsory health insurance funds, as well as for the earnings of those employees who earn earnings from the employer's funds. It is proposed that the salaries of employees paid from compulsory health insurance shall consist of part of the basic salary, part of the salary on the basis of the work effect, salary allowance and the obligation paid by the employee on the basis of taxes and contributions. It is also proposed that the government establish the basis for the calculation of the salary at the level of the coefficient, the minimum share of the basic salary coefficient and the highest percentage increase in the basic salary, criteria and criteria for the part of the salary to be achieved on the basis of the working effect, the way and the process of calculating the salary, as well as other issues relevant for the accounting of the salaries of healthcare professionals. Also proposed are salary increases based on a salary allowance, which is being made by a health care institution based on income. The introduction of a new way of accounting for employees' salaries in health institutions creates conditions for rewarding according to work, i.e. to rewarding them according to the results of work, which is one of the basic elements for changing the way they finance compulsory health insurance. The proposed way will create conditions for employees in a health institution who achieve better results to work, earn more than the salary of the employee who does not achieve the average results of work. This type of funding is an additional stimulation and promotion of greater quality in providing health services, thereby increasing the satisfaction of healthcare users. In addition, the proposed method of calculating the salary of employees in health institutions, which are not provided by means of compulsory health insurance, is at least up to the level of employees who receive payment from compulsory health insurance funds. Article 5 lays down the time limit for the adoption of acts referred to in Article 2 of this Act and lays down which rules apply until they are adopted. Article 6 states that this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63476	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63477	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I ask you to understand me, because this all started without you until you were at the head of the Ministry. One of the basic remarks of this bill is that the Social Economic Council has not passed. Maybe it's like the opposite of the Labour Act. After the end of your address, would you please answer whether this dilemma is standing or not? The calculated cost of working times the coefficient, times 0.9, that's the formula for each individual. The collective agreement, he should be in this case then suspended, if we accept this formula to work. Then the collective contract of the sea, on the legal side, lawyers say – should be suspended. Maybe he's already been suspended. The corrective coefficient is not provided for in the collective contract, nor in the Labour Act. The results of the work are those that can be measured, but is it possible that 25% of healthcare professionals working in prevention decide in other 75%, because the minority has always joined the majority, but here is the opposite case? Won't it happen to us that the chosen team only works as long as it takes for the norm and simply say - we won't move on, there's a point? The diagnostics of the task force as a service pact in secondary and tertiary, the same situation will take place. Anything sensitive in this situation and treating the cheapest medicines Serbian people will not be very well. Is this new law suspending the "Official Messenger", 24/05, 61/05, 54/09, its members 104 and 105, which guarantee employees equal earnings for the same work or work of the same value? Here I define precisely the work of the same value as the structure of the elements of the profit. As for my parliamentary group, whose representative I am here now, I can say on behalf of my group – we will vote this law, because of what was said and in the previous part, that this is also the obligation of the state to Europe, and that is to say to the World Bank, but we think that we should propose a corrective coefficient now reduces earnings only to employees in employment and health, and tomorrow to all employees in state bodies and public services. Plus, minus, 10%, this one's not even big, and it's not even small. And will we be able, we have prepared the budget, the draft budget, too, to be able to make this difference, if we were to be in the positive, and pay off with the same funds, as it is said, not looking for new and additional funding? What's the situation now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63478	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps the answer to the question of colleagues Krpić – why did this bill not pass the socio-economic council lies in the fact that this law has only been in the process for a year and a half. This is really mocking parliament and this is humiliating parliament. Now it's just a question -- who could be responsible here, is that Parliament Speaker, is that your previous colleague, former Minister Milosavljevic? In any case, Mr. Stankovic, you can't be responsible for this because you've only been in that position since March and you probably didn't even know this was in the process. We're wondering what kind of drawer this was made into, and where are we going to discuss this today, as if we don't have more than one thing, as if we don't have the obligation of Parliament to discuss the state of KIM? What we resent for you is that you have accepted this on behalf of the Government here to defend and to read this ridiculous explanation, which you certainly cannot accept, because at the beginning of this argument it says – the aim of the law is to create conditions for implementing reforms in the financing of health care, i.e. health insurance, both at the primary and the secondary and therapeutic level of health care and the means of compulsory health insurance. This may be the goal of the law, but that goal must have been on June 10, 2010, when this law entered the assembly procedure. Imagine how many negative things happened, if it's true that this law had to be discussed, and it's an emergency procedure. For a year and a half, there is also the Law of the Assembly to be discussed, and today we are discussing it by emergency procedure. Why this should have been discussed by an urgent procedure, the Government told us, in an explanation – in order to change the way health care services are financed more urgently at all levels of health care planned in 2010, and which requires a change in the way in which the salaries of health employees are financed, it is necessary to adopt this law by emergency procedure in order to remove the adverse consequences that could result from the sustainability of the mandatory health insurance system. Here are now simple questions – are there really harmful consequences because for a year and a half of days this law has been squatting in a corner and only today has it come to this debate? If the adverse consequences have arisen, Minister, have you conducted any investigation, have you identified who is responsible for the consequences? Or, if there are no harmful consequences, there is no need for this law to be passed. There's no third. Especially not to be brought by emergency procedure. We expect you to answer those questions. Since this is called the law on salaries in state authorities and public services, we can't bypass the general story of salaries in public services. What is the position of the SRS, we pointed out, I am speaking in relation to this proposal, which has been here since June 2010, in the meantime was the budget rebalance for 2010, so it was the 2011 budget, and the budget rebalance for 2011. Three times we've only drawn your attention to how budget funds should be allocated, not just in this part, but now we're talking about this part, where this law that we're discussing today is the basis. We in the SRS think it is necessary to raise salaries in health care, salaries in education, salaries in the police. We know the situation of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, the budget was not brought into such a situation because of the economic crisis, but because of a bunch of ignorants and criminals who are making that budget, but we have proposed very concretely – stop agencies. In Serbia, 120 agencies are doing para-state jobs, doing the jobs the ministries are supposed to do. The people who are employed in those agencies are mostly party personnel, and that's the good part of the party that stands for it, I mean the URS, which advocates the departmentization of state functions and public functions. These people who are employed in agencies, who are doing the job that the ministries are supposed to do, have salaries at least three times the salaries of ministry employees. Those agency executives have salaries, ministers, at least three times your salary. You're the minister, and they're the directors of some para-state bodies. Then we have interesting situations, let's say, rising electricity prices. Then the minister comes out and says -- there's nothing the government has to do with it, that the Agency determines the price of electricity. So, distracting people and seizing money and putting money to party officials in their pockets, and probably through them and through those agencies and directly into party secret budgets. What are the salaries employed in public enterprises? When's that gonna end? We in the SRS have been talking and talking concrete examples for years. We were talking about Bojan Krishta, who had to resign because we called him what his salary was. We are calling for a long term director of Flight Control, who has a salary of 6,000 euros. We call the governor of the National Bank, who has a salary of 5,000 euros. Is it appropriate, Mr. Minister, for your colleagues, for surgeons, for whatever specialties, cardiologists, gynecologists, that they work so responsiblely for the salary of maybe 1,000 euros, compared to all those that you, or the Tadic regime, have allowed to be loaded on the back of this people? And then you say, "How will you distribute the salaries of the health care workers?" Introduce some corrective coefficient. Very interesting. Corrective coefficient is the possibility of abuse, you open it to a wide door. On the one hand, the question is how is possible, in general, in this way, how did you predict literally standardising the work of health workers. You know, that's how you handled these amendments to the law like he's a health worker, a working man in a sawmill who's putting up boards, so it's standard for him to put 20 planks together, over 20 has this corrective coefficient, and he'll get a bigger salary. Health care professionals, doctors, first of all, work with patients. What are you making doctors do through this law? When I get to the doctor, I have sore throats, I come to the doctor, and I need to talk to my doctor. Not just about that sore throat, but I want to know what's causing it, what could be the consequence, etc. But since the doctor is working on the norm, he'll say something like that from the door, you're coughing. I don't have time, go to the pharmacy and buy some medicine. You can't even get a prescription. This isn't a cartoon, this is what's going to happen really in practice. You have hereby annulled the general collective agreement. That's not going to be in the health care anymore. It's not in accordance with the Labour Act, Mr. Minister. On the contrary, the Labour Act, which obliges you to conclude a general collective contract. Whoever proposed this law, you didn't, but in the meantime, when you saw where they sent you, you could look at this and tell Cvetkovic that this couldn't go, that this was the opposite of the Labour Act. I don't want to represent an illegal proposal. How are you going to achieve what you're predicting by this law, to value doctors based on, now I'm banalizing, based on the patients examined? How are you going to compare, ministers, the one applying this law, how are you going to compare a doctor who works in a village infirmary or in a hospital in Crno Trava, or in a clinic in New Montenegro, with a doctor who works at the Zemun Health House, the Old Town Health Center in Belgrade? How can they have the same number of patients? How can they achieve the same effect by quantity? Now I'm not talking about quality, I'm talking about quantity. How can she, when she can get sick, don't give God, everyone in Black grass, and that's less than one street in Zemun? Simple, inapplicable law. Where else can you save in health care so that you can actually raise your salaries to doctors and medical staff, non-medical staff, so all health employees? I'll explain to you on the case of the Old Town Health House. Before that, since I am a National MP, and yet again, I repeat, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services on the agenda, to speak a word about employees in the Assembly. In general, if I counted the systematization correctly this morning, there are 367 employees. Most of these people work with a salary of 24,000 dinars. Anyway, those employees who work for a salary of 24,000 dinars sit the same as how many MPs here. Last night until half past 11:00, and today, probably by 4:00. Sometimes when there is no minister, they come and go, they don't have to stay because they don't even hold a session, but in any case, they have to follow Parliament's session. That is why there are about 40 employees in the National Assembly who have special powers, MPs who work for a salary greater than the president’s salary. But, therefore, thanks to the likely "poor" work of such officers, for example, it may happen that the Administrative Board loses some request for the removal of immunity coming from the court. Unfortunately, it's also paid out of citizens' pockets, for example. protected by Tomislav Nikolic, or to protect Veroljub Arsic, for example. I heard from the board members personally, those who need to know, that they existed, say, those requests for the removal of immunity and that they were gone. Someone who's in charge of this has twice as much pay as the President of the Assembly. These are yours, as you wrote the corrective coefficients. Now a little bit about this House of Health Old Town and a few specific cases, Minister, since you are here and here, and in public you often say that, and in your first address here in Parliament, you said that you would deal with corruption in health and that you would try, as much as in your power, health to relieve corruption. I'm afraid it's hard to completely lift it, because it's too much root. So Ljubisa Perisic was recently the director of the Old Town Health House in Belgrade. Before leaving that post in the House of Health, he hired a member of St. Radisic, who is his cousin who has completed the FON. I'm not from this area, but maybe you know what someone with FON can do in a health care facility? It would be very interesting if you told us. In this same home of health, and you will hear, there are many malfeasances from this home of health, in this same home of health for finance is the birth of Governor Šoškovic's brother. It is he who has a salary of five, six thousand euros, and says that he has earned it, that they are not people's money. He doesn't blink and says so in the media. This Ljubisa Perisic, before leaving the director's office alone, increased my salary by 30% for January and February 2010. To myself. If it's some special home health success, it's not just his, is it? The man himself has increased his salary. He's known for a lot of things. Let's just say, in the House of Health, Old Town got two ultrasounds. He paid nine million dinars both. You know for a fact that Nis Health House only has one ultrasound apparatus and that ultrasound apparatus is paid for 300,000 dinars. This gentleman in Old Town could buy three, and he bought two, to take a commission, and he doesn't need more than one, you'll agree, in one home of health. He's known for concluding harmful contracts. In fact, the realisation of these contracts damaged the home of health, or indirectly to the citizens of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because it is financed from the budget. How? By having a clause in every contract he concluded, and otherwise that gentleman in Old Town had over a hundred public procurements without competition. Over a hundred public procurements! Then, when the contract is concluded, there is a clause in the contract that, if by the 5th of the month, the obligations of the war are reduced by 10%. If he exceeds the 5th in the month, then he has to pay another 5% more than that war that came then. Imagine, interestingly, he had money, but since Soskic's brother was there, they did it nicely, he had money every time in his account, but every time he paid after that 5th in the month, so he probably shared with some of those 5% he had to pay from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in fact directly from the budget of the Old City Health House. In that old town, the head of the administration, Dejan Kovacevic, is. No, he's the head of administration in town, I'm sorry, but it's about this. Yes, Wolf, the head of the board of directors in the city. Otherwise, for your information, Vuce, Gilas is planning it for the president of the Old Town municipality, and it is famous for giving Canet 56 locations "Future Plus", although it was a competition, but of course it was furnished and Future plus made the biggest offer she never respected and the city was damaged for certain funds. For reconstruction of the roof of the House of Health, the Old City, ministers, twice received money, once from the NIP, and the second time the same amount from the City Assembly. The roof was reconstructed only once. The question you may not have the answer to right now, but we certainly expect you to try to find out, the question is, where did the money go from the other, under quotes, reconstructions? Otherwise, Dima Company, a company has provided information on a possible saving on the adaptation of the 150 million dinar roof. How? It was also in June 2010, June 2, a few days before this law was given to us in the procedure. There were two firms in the tender, one for the work on adaptation of the roof of the House of Health asked for 300 million dinars, and the other for 150 million dinars. Then the SRS's boards made an effort, so this company has no amount, so they just gave the tender documentation and asked that this firm, with the signature and stamp, was delivered to the mayor of Belgrade, says who's more favourable, regardless of the price, who's a more favourable contractor? Regardless of the price, the more favourable performer is the one who was 150 million cheaper, but this gentleman chose, in fact, in the City Assembly, which is why I mentioned Dejan Kovacevic, Wolfe, the head of the administration involved, they chose this gentleman who took 150 million more. (President: 20 minutes! I'm done. I expect, Minister, the answer to this one seems to be very interesting questions, and your law is very bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63480	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to use their rights in this part? National MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to replication. Here you go. On the panel appears the name of the National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. I don't doubt it, but I have to explain, because I can't give you a word on someone else's card, although I believe you're not responsible for anything. It's happening. I just need to explain. A national MP who forgets his personal card has the right to a daily exchange. Mistakes happen, but I have to explain this to the public and because the name that appears in the panel I have to read, and I'm not allowed to put a word on a card that doesn't belong to the MP. It's an unintentioned slip. It happens to everyone, absolutely nothing unusual. National MP Veroljub Arsic will have the right to a replica, only to acquire technical conditions and get his replacement card. Do they, meanwhile, want the word of the presidents or representatives of other parliamentary groups, since we are in the course of the session when the right to the word is given? If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search, applied for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs, submitted a parliamentary group of SRS and a parliamentary group of forward Serbia. The first registered speaker on the list is the MP of the people, Paja Momchilov, and after that, the MP of the people, Marina Tomman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear Mrs. Comic, as our authorised representative, Mrs. Radeta, has said, this bill is extremely bad and comes in the weather. SRS MPs can't possibly vote for him. I'm going to try to clarify the basic facts and the problems that we're opting for are fierce criticism of this poor legal proposal. You see, you have indicated to us, and you have now said in your address that the reasons for submitting such a proposal are to achieve a higher quality of work in health care, better results and greater satisfaction for citizens. You're not gonna make any of this happen. In fact, you've come from the assumption that this will create preconditions for reforming the health service. When you came, Mr. Minister, to the position you're in right now, it's a difficult task for you, we all know, it's not a bit easy to find yourself in the present time at the head of this resort, you said you weren't going to resort to large systemic changes. But here, you didn't keep your word. You've entered very large system changes in the weather. Of course, I'll explain why I think it is. First of all, I don't see any reason for urgency. You say in the condicional that it might prevent damage. You're not even saying there's gonna be any damage. As Mrs. Verica told you, you say the damage will be in 2010. So, what year are we in? Read the material you gave us and explain it. You say – because of the urgent change in the way health services are financed at all levels of health care, which is planned in 2010. Something like that doesn't really look like it, but there are three or four tickets to fill out and make a legal proposal, and you're still making mistakes like that. First, what's the point? What did you try to explain? It's not your fault. We absolutely don't blame you for this. We're blaming you for breaking your promise not to make a big system sweep in the system. Six members of the law should introduce a new way of paying healthcare workers into the healthcare system. Not all health workers, but one quarter, say, of doctors in primary health care who you've designated a capitation as the system of the most just determination of earnings. What does that mean? Doctor of general practice, means they're in health homes, and they're one-quarter of the doctors in our health care system, that's known, make a team together with the sister and some auxiliary staff. So, that one quarter you've set out the tape you're putting them on, that they have a special way to be evaluated, and that way they'll depend on the number of citizens that will be defined for them, on the quality that you'll later determine. What does a doctor need to fill in for you to assess that he's done a good job? Now look, you have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. Why isn't it true for all the categories that cover this law? Why is it only one small category of healthcare workers? That's the first question. The issue was also raised by Mr Krpic, the Health Committee was addressed by health unions of health workers, the most representative and the most numerous. The board took them in. We talked to them. They invite us, and they sent a circulatory letter to all the MPs, not to vote in favour of this law. For what? Well, let's get in line. You see, in the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, in Article 1, you have categories of officials, and in the second point "selected, appointed persons in the bodies and organisations of territorial autonomy and local self-government", and then 3) "employees in public services, financed by the budget", and 4) "employees in public services financed by the contribution to compulsory social security", you have 5) "employees in compulsory social insurance organisations". But this law should apply only to this fourth category, but not to all doctors. We doctors would like to get paid for the results of our work. Most of us, including myself, think we're underpaid for what we're doing, in conditions where we work and with the pathology we need to take care of. We would like you to have passed legal provisions that will give everyone a chance to truly be properly rewarded by our work, not just one quarter of us, to have that privilege, and it is not a privilege. I'll explain why he didn't. What did you say? You said, "This group, by a special regulation, will regulate how they will obtain their wages." You will prescribe special coefficients. When this was discussed and this was introduced back in 2001, the Red Cross was the authority to undertake reforms and finance the introduction of this principle of captainship. I'm not going to talk about this second, about related groups of diseases, how you imagined being paid at secondary and therapeutic level in health care hospitals. Let's leave it alone now, it'll be a lot. We'll talk about it through the amendments. After three years, the money was spent, the result was nothing. In order to implement this at one of the meetings, from workshops organised both in our country and abroad, it is clear what are the preconditions. Information. You must have a base of not insurance, but of citizens, because you know well how many of our citizens are not covered, don't pay contributions, don't work and are provided with health care from the budget. Furthermore, there is no package of basic health services, nor at the primary level, it is said there clearly, without the information system complete, where you will be able to clearly have the results shown, and of course, you need a selected doctor. Today, you say you have 75% of citizens to decide, 25% you don't. You don't have any preconditions that I've been talking about here for years, the money's been spent, I'm not going to read the participants, some of them sitting here have been involved in all this, and then it's clearly said without what they can't do. And why did you do this now? The unions had two meetings with you. They stood up. You are abolishing this law if members of collective, general contract, special contract for healthcare professionals are carefully read. You're throwing them out of the old law and saying the government is going to decide on the coefficients. So wait, what's that? Yesterday, Professor. Micunovic killed by explaining how the law should be just, that it should not be what the ruling ideological will is. You're not listening to the union. Who were you consulting? You didn't consult the board, but you had to. What did you tell the unions? You can make harikiri, but this has to be because of the IMF. That's what the person sitting in this room said. That's your answer. What did the unions do? They staged a quick alert strike. You've got a majority here who'll probably vote this out. What are you gonna do? You'll have 10,000 people, health workers on the street. Have you consulted the Chamber of Health Professionals? It's a professional association. That's what their job description says, that they care about working conditions. Of course not. What do you mean you're doing? In 2009, this book was discussed in this home. The Health Committee gave its opinion. Here they said that they believe that the key reform move that needs to be done is this reception and this group of diseases. We denied it. It's not a key problem. To tell you in this book that there's an extra doctor, it's not true. Get the numbers in Europe. From Greece there are 500 doctors on 100,000 inhabitants, we have 200 and something. See how they are deployed across Serbia, Belgrade, mostly in large cities. How many in other places? That's what's also going to be a big problem. How's the guy in the village gonna get the number of patients in town? No way in primary health care either. Why are you doing this? You've so changed this law according to one group, it's just amazing. The labour law says there's a base, a basic salary and then there's coefficients that multiply that base. No, you here and the basics gave the coefficient, the coefficient squared. Why are you doing this? The provisions of the Labour Act are perfectly accurate and clear. It seems I need to read to you, and for the sake of the citizens, to see you tear down this country's legal system. He says this: "Employees are guaranteed equal earnings for the same work or work of the same value that they earn with the employer. The same value includes work requiring the same degree of expertise, the same ability to work, responsibility and physical and intellectual work." It is then said: "The decision of the employer or the agreement with employees who do not comply with the position of the 2nd member is void." What about the Labour Act? Then you'll have to stop him first. It can't be like that. Or all equal terms. The unions don't run away from the value of work, but they all need to be valued, and they all have the same position. You are a corrective coefficient, which you provided for in the sublegal act, so the government will decide without unions on both the basis and the coefficients. Which government – Mr. Cvetkovic? An irresponsible government when it comes to health policy, which does not care at all about Serbia's citizens' health. We are among the first in Europe. You did not implement, not you but the previous team, what you were obliged to do in terms of the World Health Organization, the European part, to reorient the system towards primary health care, to promote health. You didn't do anything. You spent a lot of money on projects and a lot of money lying in systemic corruption. You're taking the right of yourself, that government, that in the very beginning it reduces the base. It's not in other categories of healthcare workers, you're reducing their base, and you're reducing their base. We got a proposal for your sublegal act, you multiply some base by 0.9, and then there goes the quality of the work. I think you should withdraw this in the interest of the health of the people of Serbia. Do not follow the IMF and its instructions. At this point, they just want to cut off the consumption of a very sick health people, who does not meet the health system, if it is looked at in detail, and the criteria of European employment, when we talk about doctors, not medical workers, to be absolutely clear, which and the existing fund that they say needs to be further reduced, does not meet the extent to which they meet other European countries, and you have a very, very sick people. It can't. What do all developed countries do under economic crisis conditions, do they do to the UN? They create a special conference dedicated to health, chronic non-infectious diseases and say – invest in health. The responsible government, especially if it were to have a difficult situation like this, would consider ways to provide the funds with other mechanisms that exist in the world. Let me tell you one thing, maybe I can pick up the money from the cab, too, so we don't spread the story any further. So, this is scandalous, this is a shame, and please, in the interest of the citizens, pull this back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63482	It was used 17 minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, with an apology for the difficulties with the technique. Right on line two minutes, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63483	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, probably also employees of the Serbian Parliament, at least one part cannot be satisfied with their profits and that much of it. It is also true that an authorised representative of the SRS has said that there are certain employees who have certain privileges, greater salaries than the president of the Assembly. When someone in their discussion, the MPs tell the truth, then they question what the truth is. Here's what I can tell you. It's probably gonna take some with regrets that something that doesn't exist can't even get lost. I'm not being prosecuted by any criminal act that a prosecutor pursues on official duty, not even a criminal one. I am absolutely sure that is the case for Mr Tomislav Nikolic. When it comes to the political struggle, for the past 12 years, as I am a national MP, it has been so far that the opposition has always attacked the ruling coalition, to show that the government is incompetent, so that they would be better off seeking to challenge the government's fall, or to call early elections, so I don't understand why one opposition political party is attacking the SNS, which is also an opposition political party. Only if the party that is attacking the SNS already sees Tomislav Nikolic as future prime minister and prime minister, and the SNS as a party participating in the government, so you're doing it forward, then I can understand that. You may continue to attack freely, we will no longer respond to your attacks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63484	The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63485	Detailed information on the missing request to remove the immunity of the man who spoke earlier can be obtained from Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic, who knows well, who has repeatedly said that the request disappeared at a time when Tomislav Nikolic was chairman of the Administrative Committee. As for who the government is, who the opposition is, what Krasic showed, here is Nikolic in second place -- the EU, NATO has no alternative. However, I would put it first because he said he would bring Serbia into the EU faster than Boris Tadic does, or rather, he would have turned Serbia around faster than Boris Tadic does. I just wanted to explain this to the board of directors about this request. Otherwise, it wouldn't have occurred to me to replicate a creature who not only stole a mandate but also today's identification card to a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63486	Please, it cannot be in line with the Rules of Procedure that you are mistaken about where the identification card is with another name of the MP, I have made it clear twice, and I have apologized for the thoughtless technical failure and I cannot incur under any provision of the Rules of Procedure, I can only ask that a way to address other MPs in such a way, to ask that we remind ourselves that he is always talking about us more than those we address, so I ask you not to do so. MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63487	I'd like the rules, Madam Chairman. It was simply said that my colleague stole someone's letter card. He took a duplicate card from the technical service. The technical service mistakenly typed the name of the letter, not its name, so there's no talking about any theft, Mrs. Verica Radeta knows it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63488	Thank you. It's Marina Toman's national emissary. The People's Messenger Lidija Dimitrijevic has a word, so the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing today the draft law that entered the assembly procedure in June 2010. So, about a year and a half ago. This is one of the few laws that stuck around so long in the process, which could be a signal if it wasn't for the safety of whether or not to go out with these changes. We at the SRS Parliament Club have carefully analysed the proposed changes and noted that the provisions which have been proposed do not correspond to the very well written explanation for the adoption of this law on amendments and additions. In an explanation of such fineness, the idea of justice, of fair distribution, of rewarding according to work. according to the work effect. What we can say is that this is an example of that saying, that the record suffers all things, so that all things can be written. If the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws were adopted this would cause real chaos in the health care system, especially in the primary health care area, as these changes relate to them and in a new way of paying off profits. If someone thought that this way they would improve the quality of health care or have a serious mistake or a hidden goal. During this time of year and a half, as the subject of the amendments lies in the assembly procedure, the health union has repeatedly addressed institutions with the requirement to mention the bill's withdrawal from the procedure. These are the people who touch these changes, and they analyzed in detail a new way of calculating and calculated that this way would result in a reduction in wages. Now someone might say that in this way only basic salaries are reduced, but that it can be replaced by other elements that depend on the working effect, so by applying this method someone will also have opportunities for a higher amount of pay. These solutions may not be a problem for doctors and medical staff in urban areas and in areas where more inhabitants live. They'll probably somehow be able to make up for that difference thanks to the number of patients, if it's going to be a criterion that will determine the part of the salary that relates to the work effect that is now proposed as a new element of the profit account. We see that Article 2 proposes a new Article 4a, which defines that the percentage increase in the basic salary expresses the recognition of the working effect based on the scope of the work, the quality of the work done, the number and structure of the identified persons, as well as the other criteria and criteria set out in Article 3. I'm going to say a little bit about attitude three later. The 2nd position I read could only be suggested by someone who doesn't live in Serbia or if he lives then imagines it as a perfect society. Although the bill was written in June of last year, a year and a half before the implementation and publication of the census results, so someone could keep their eyes closed in front of reality. How severe the reality has shown the results of the census carried out a month ago. Has anyone who has written this amendment law considered if an unequal position puts doctors and medical staff working in the health and health homes of cities and hospitals in villages that are miles away from cities where fewer people live? In many places there are fewer and many villages are extinct. I would like to point out that the first data on the list in Jablanic County from which I come says that compared to the 2002 census in Leskovec is less than 7,782 persons, in Bojnik 2,000 persons, in Vlasotinc 3,073 persons, Leban 2,409 Medvedji 2,869 and Crno Trava 870 people. In all municipalities, population declines have been registered, not in any increase or stagnation of population numbers. The decline in birth rate and the increase in mortality is noticeable. We received information from officials in Leskovac that about 1,200 babies are born annually and about 2,200 people die. Migration to the north of the country is also important. The census also showed that there are 377,335 people in the territory of the Republic of Serbia less than before, although it is a number that refers to a list without data from KIM. In eleven places there are no more inhabitants while in 975 villages there are less than a hundred inhabitants. These data seem to be no criterion for this government when making any decisions. If at the time this bill was written, there was no result of the list. Now that it has been put on the agenda of the Assembly session, there have been results of the list and are available to all. This puts the unequal position of doctors in urban environments and doctors in hospitals in villages with a small number of inhabitants. The census also showed population growth in large cities. Now I want to remind you that it's article 68. The constitution guarantees that everyone has the right to protect their physical and mental health. But as things take place soon, the availability of health care will be at stake for many residents. And so far, this problem has been largely present. I'm going to say just one example from my environment, I assume that the government's representatives are aware of some places in southern Serbia, and here's an opportunity to hear what problems these residents in those cities have with primary health care. Since a few years ago, in Leskovac, it has been practice to lift second shifts of medical work in remoter places or to put an end to work for certain days. The SRS committees in the Leskovec City Assembly also had an initiative to normalise the work and conclusion of the Assembly and memos of the Ministry of Health in one period is as normal as the work of one of the infirmarys. It's a hospital in Predean where the locals are treated by 11 surrounding villages. The way things are now, and some improvement after the adoption of these changes, we can't talk for sure. In addition to putting doctors and medical staff in the same position, this proposal also violates the Labour Act, Article 104, which guarantees that equal earnings are guaranteed for the same work or work of the same value. We had little honor in hearing from the esteemed doctor Paia Momchilova, he quoted the 3rd attitude that speaks of it. I am now in a situation where the Government's regulation determines corrective coefficients, the highest percentage increase in the basic salary, criteria and criteria for part of the salary that is achieved on the basis of the work effect as well as the method of calculating the salary. The government regulation will be the one to be applied, not the Labour Act and a member who is a little bit of an hour. Further Article 3 is amended as Article 5 of the basic law, by applying the labour regulations instead of calculating the salary allowance under the General collective agreement. What is clearly recognised as the intention of proposing these changes is that, in the context of primary health care, it wants to create political chaos. Doctors and medical staff will literally be interested in working where there are the most patients, and this will be distributed in these homes of health and clinics, it is clear that political war will be waged, because everyone has a higher salary, no matter how high it is. Instead of improving the quality of services to patients, we will have the transfer of doctors and staff according to the criteria of political similarity or incompatibility. We're going to have a fight that the doctor will choose who did not choose his general practice or dentist, because these are the new conditions set before us by the Health Insurance Act. Without that choice, there's no medical records. What's the problem when you pick a doctor who goes on vacation at the time of his vacation, which is normal or celebrates the glory of the cross, and you suddenly get a temperature of 40 degrees. Each of us can speak in turn because administrative procedures are so complicated that they don't allow another doctor to see you before the patients he's chosen and who have scheduled the examination. By the time you're in line, the temperature will go over 40, because you haven't failed, you couldn't assume that you'll suddenly get sick and get a high temperature, but this way I really have to point out that in Serbia, the humanity of doctors is still ahead of all the administrative barriers that this government put before them. In the end, following numerous warnings from the representatives of the SRS and the presentation of over-income data in public agencies and public enterprises, we expected amendments to the laws that would apply to them. Instead, we have before us amendments concerning only one part of healthcare workers and these changes, which even though the promoter has tried to present them as a positive newspaper, we cannot really say that for them. The questions that are inevitably raised are – why, for example, work in agencies and some other institutions is not paid by effect? We had opportunities to pay up to 466,939 dinars in 2009. We have had the opportunity to hear the insistence of the motions of these changes on rewarding the work and evaluation of the results of the work. Why, for example, does the government of the Republic of Serbia not apply this principle to the work of many agencies? Probably because if this principle were applied, for example, With the Privatisation Agency, everyone from its existence to today not to receive any salary, but in order to compensate for the damage they have done to the citizens of Serbia, would have to be much in debt and not to pay their loans for their lives, even if the credits were also favourable to the banks, and how some try to imagine that the banking system is successful and speaks to many credits as favourable. Those who have destroyed Serbia's economy, hence the lives of many people, receive more than three medical salaries, while doctors who are often in a position to fight to save people's lives, because in places that are quite far from the cities doctors of primary health care are often in a position to save the lives of those who do not have the privilege of living in the centre of the big city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63490	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, is unacceptable to this law from several aspects. I'll point to a legal, financial and health aspect. Why is it unacceptable from a legal point of view? It's about one matter that represents system law. It is the Law on salaries in state authorities and public services and is unacceptable in a complex law that regulates the way in which wages are determined in various public authorities and public services. Incorporate, insert only one segment, which in this case is health and health insurance, it's impossible. Legally, it's impossible. From this point on, we're telling you that you're not doing it, it's highly unacceptable. Everything that you put in legal terms, that's how you put it into this law here, that's what's gonna apply to everyone else. These are common provisions, but why is only the Ministry of Health, which defends this law, introducing a working-effect category? It's almost an abnormal situation that we don't have a working effect as a element of determining the conditions and determining the height of the profits. But here, you're putting it here now in this law through alterations and additions and it's going to become an integral part of this. In the future, we will also have a working effect with the President of the Republic and with the President, Vice-President of the National Assembly, President, Vice-President of Parliament Groups, President, etc. various services of state etc. You say in your explanation the following – the aim is to create conditions for implementing reforms in the financing of health care, i.e. health insurance, and on the other hand, you say that there will be no need for funds to implement this law. That's impossible again. If you say they create conditions for implementing reforms in the financing of healthcare, i.e. health insurance in both primary and secondary, therapeutic, health care and compulsory health insurance... a lot of indiscretions, etc. From the point of view of the SRS, this is unacceptable for one rational reason, which is that the government has brought a reform of health insurance and health care back in 2002. So we've been in reform for almost 10 years, and only today in this assembly are we discussing something that isn't the law category. This must not be defined by law because according to the second system law, the Labour Act, this matter is regulated by collective agreements, by a general collective contract, special and individual. What is the fate of the general collective agreement? It's in the freezer. In 2008 before the elections, the general collective agreement was signed by all relevant factors and when it should be applied then an annex was made. After that annex was prolonged after six months and after that, the government's official information was that it was frozen. It's a scam. To leave a general collective agreement, this is about an individual collective contract that must cover this matter that you have incorporated into the law. From a legal point of view, I don't think it's acceptable for it to be an emergency procedure. These nebuloses that you have left here seem to be a congregation and administrative service, both government and assembly. For a year and a half, he lies somewhere in the drawers of the Assembly and then retreats and makes an emergency procedure and says: "Because of the urgent change in the way of financing health services." Well, none of the words in the law itself talk about how to finance health services, he says – at all levels of health care planned in 2010, which requires a change in the way in which health employees' salaries are financed, is necessary, etc. This looks exactly like the way you do it. First, put something in the matter of the law that doesn't belong. On the other hand, it's an emergency procedure, because it's absolutely necessary. Why is it necessary if this was not necessary after the reform started in 2002, to put it in now? Why not now, why not 2002, 2003, 2005? Why is it not immediately after the adoption of the Labour Act and other system laws that regulated the system of establishment of employment, etc. She's a lot of strangers, a lot of nebulosis. It's a law you won't be able to change in practice. You didn't agree, you don't have expert opinions, etc. In a legal sense, this law should be withdrawn because you must not regulate this by law. In financial terms, you say there will be no need for consciousness. How are you going to install a work effect in the current award system? It is necessary to provide certain resources for the work effect. If this is about redistributing how you're going to solve it, because you haven't said redistribution here in any sentence and how you're going to solve it in primary health care compared to all other areas of health care. When it comes to funding state institutions and administrations, we must say that according to the participation of salaries in the state administration, Serbia is the first in Europe with 13% of GDP. We've got Lithuania behind us, then Lithuania is fat. We're somewhere now at 13% of GDP, what stands out. And it's disastrous, according to data, that since 2000, we've come from about 380,000 employees in the state administration now to 530,000 in the state administration. But you don't know that either. On several occasions, I have asked parliamentary questions and I have not yet received an answer, and I know why I did not and will not get it, because no state institution in the Republic of Serbia has accurate data on how many real workers are financed by civil servants, officials, financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from the province budgets and from the budget of local self-government, an unknown number. Why? Because we have more categories of working relationships. We have a permanent working relationship, we have a working relationship to a certain one. We in the state administration today have workers who have been working for 10 years. Five years, it's usually done. Here, I'm going to mention one state service, it's the Administration of the Catastre, where it's almost common for it to last for several years. Labour contracts, thousands of workers work that way. And it's all going through, labour inspections know all that, that documentation is being delivered to the competent ministry. However, it is not competent to make a single application on that basis. It's a direct breach of the basics. But let's get back to the financial framework. He's worrying. That's what you need to worry about. I'm saying this for the sake of the people that he knows too. In 2005, 84 billion dinars were allocated to the state administration. It represented 15% of the budget, the 2005 budget. In 2011, it's over 200 billion, it'll be over 210 billion. That's over 30%. So, with 15% in six years, we've come to 30%. Where's the end? Where's the end of that haughtiness? An even more drastic example of what you do in the field of labour law is that out of about a million 700,000 employees, 530,000 workers are paid out of the budget. It's a huge number. In no country in the world, you don't have a percentage like we do. This number of 150,000 employees in the last 10 years clearly states that you have replaced the economy with the state services and your public, your sympathies, your members from the economy, you are shutting down the economy, the economic operators, and you are transferring workers to this sphere where we know and we know that the budget cannot be financed by what is being financed right now. As far as funding is concerned, I'm just going to have this aspect of the work effect. Minister, you say here – this will create conditions for the introduction of a new model of payment at the primary level of healthcare for healthcare services provided in the home of health, by applying the payment model per capita. No country has gone through, neither will here. And like this, we have huge problems with the number of patients who come to our health care facilities, receive adequate medical care, have huge problems coming in line and say everything they need to say to the doctor. It takes as long as it takes in health and social terms to say. If it's a reward in primary health care according to the number, according to the head, we'll have a fast train that will pass, etc. The doctors won't even listen to you. Why? They're interested in the number. Recipes, etc., which I care about, it's important that we put in a certain amount of workers for today, tomorrow even more, the day after tomorrow, even more, and so on, I have a higher salary. That's unacceptable. Minister, withdraw this law. From a legal, financial and health aspect, this is a bad law. You won't be able to apply it, and society as a whole will have enormous damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63492	It was used 12 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic, and he is the last reported speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63493	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, for the sake of the public, let me remind you, although my colleagues have done so, probably to the citizens, as colleagues of Veriqa Radeti yesterday could not be clear that today we will be discussing the law that was delivered to us in June 2010, and as a law to be considered by an emergency procedure. We have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, which was delivered on 10 June 2010, with the intention and with the proposal to discuss this proposal by emergency procedure. That's how urgent he is. This may be the best picture the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. Mr. Minister, some of my colleagues have tried to wash off their responsibility. It can't be done completely. True, you're the least responsible for that. You don't suffer from party genetics. You're acting for a very pragmatic man, but when you saw this, you couldn't, you shouldn't have accepted to speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia about this law. Is someone cheating on you, we're not getting into it, it doesn't matter, and therefore part of the responsibility stands on you for such a bad proposal. For it could be said, "Why is it that now that his time is not to be debated?" The unions said what they said. Serbian Radical Party political party and it does not enter the union organisation. Of course, we all want to improve standards and employees together and those that aren't, give them a chance. The obligation and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to create such conditions and such an environment is found in the employment community or national employment service as few as possible, and those who need treatment can be treated as best possible. Now in a situation like this, Mr. Minister, one of your co-workers has been working on the VMA on a case and to only make it known, not in a pesorative sense, how difficult it is to be a health minister, because it is indeed one very responsible sector, it is not whether we are going to make some business environment or some business or not, or we are going to go to another supplier. Here we address health and therefore it is a great responsibility and she said in 2008 or 2009 – a normal man, but only in a desire to highlight the health problems, a normal man could not accept the responsibility of the health minister. We know that such a situation is in health. The biggest problem is corruption. Do not read that all doctors and all medical and non-medical staff working on providing health services are all subject to bribery and corruption. But, as Dr. Paja Momchilov said – it is a systemic problem and with it, it seems, it is not easy to deal with, it is not easy to deal with. As far as you're going to do it, it remains to be seen. Have you shown good desire and intention to do so? I think it is. Here's what one doctor at the Health Center in Loznica says. To my question, he belongs to a political party who supports the government, is this what he said about the EU -- in a commercial sense, I think it's disastrous for Serbia, but since I'm a health worker, I think it would be good if we joined the EU, to finally find someone who would seduce our turn. They lost confidence first in the director of the health center, but that's not the problem of the Health Center in Loznica. It is a general problem in all of Serbia. He says someone on the side should come to us as if the EU would now send some of its experts to be directors at the health center. So you see how he recognized what the problem was and what I think we're in no condition, or you, Mr. Minister, together with the government whose member you are, to do to change, to make something better and different. Corrective factors, what the union said to you in its letter and address on September 15th, will not bring good and the question is, there are fellow MPs here, who are also doctors, who know that sometimes in health the effect cannot be evaluated as something primary. So it's very important for the patient to be admitted for the shortest time to be taken care of, to be provided with the necessary medical attention, but it's a matter of time programming. It's not the production of an object that can be determined precisely in technological times. Here, when it comes to treatment, it's not easy to get to. And maybe it will lead to even more unquality services in health care, and I have to say, thank God, I didn't need to personally use a lot of health care services, but in Serbia we certainly have good doctors, we have those who can treat well, those who can teach others well and successfully, and above all, I mean professors at medical school. We have those who know how to organize a job. Is everyone in these functions now? They're not safe. Because unlike you, it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that so far, party genetics has been a basic prerequisite, both for the ministerial function and for the functions of the directors of homes of health, health centres, hospitals and the like. This is no ordinary business activity, this is where you need to find the best and devote time to the best and place them on such functions. What'd the unions resent? Which is why they think this is wrong, and about tens of thousands of healthcare workers are announced. The largest number is probably doctors who say that the agreement that the government has with the unions was not respected here, that the drafts of all the acts were submitted to them. The draft law and the Regulation on the corrective coefficient are contrary to Article 104. The labour law and therefore it is unacceptable and therefore this bill is unacceptable for the SRS. The draft law and regulation on the corrective coefficient are not in agreement with members 91 to 94 of the special collective contract for health institutions signed by the Ministry of Health on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They're assessing, and that's what your colleagues in the SRS have already told you, and that this leaves you with the possibility that something that is fundamentally motivated by the efficient provision of medical services, that reward, that it is regulated by regulations and that it is done by the government. So it slowly goes into a sphere that's being moved out of this Parliament and left to some individuals who can unwittingly do their job. Although some here thought there would be an increase in health care workers' earnings, they might even shrink. In the first year of 10%, and in the second or third year, as already foreseen by some dynamics and in accordance with that regulation, maybe up to 30%. Therefore, on October 20th, in five to 12, the union drew attention to the fact that this was wrong and major and significant protests were announced. What, Mr. Minister, when it turns out these people are right? That's certainly how it is, and they're right. Is it possible and have you thought about this relatively short time as you are at the head of the Ministry of Health, to pass a law that would fit, not entirely, but to the greatest extent and employees of health care institutions, and patients who need to report and come to medical institutions? It's certainly possible, but it has to be understood that it's a serious job. That's the percentages we've already shown you about, it seems to me, the Old Town Health House, and the desire to get rich in a short time, and even through the most humanitarian activity. When people who took Hippocratic's oath do so, there's definitely no doctor in that person, and all that remains is the lust for money. I think that's where you're headed to solve some issues. If you stay lonely, you certainly won't be able to do that. When I say lonely, I count, if the entire government of the Republic of Serbia is not behind you on this, in the sense that corruption in health is cleared, then you won't be able to make any progress and some serious steps at all. If you were to listen to the SRS Members unilaterally, you could conclude that our health system is not working in the best way. Yeah, and that's right. We have brighter examples. I'll bring only two here in this home, to indicate that it can be different. A good example is a special hospital in Banja Koviljaca, near Loznica, where from the hospital manager's work, to patients and all employees, everything is regulated in a good way. One example is from a small place where I come from, from Love, that healthcare professionals, doctors and medical staff, and above all I think about nurses and technicians, take care of their patients and after working hours, and all the way to patient healing. It has nothing to do with who's currently head of the home health department. Is it because it is a small place, so they know each other, or maybe the good people have been educated in these occupations. Mr. Minister, since I've already said who is training for these professions, if it's a problem for you to finally say how many doctors who are unemployed, how many nurses, health technicians, dentists, pharmacists, and if you would perhaps, and I would call it before the political fine, suggest, and that's what my colleague Nikola Krpić once asked to try something, but it's not a good thing to do right before the elections, to show that we care for people who have been educated and finished and become doctors? If we haven't had a job, if this government couldn't hire 1800 agricultural experts in three years' time, or if you're going to tell us how many health workers we have, she couldn't have done it in three years. I'm not saying everything, because there's probably not a single country that employs all people as agricultural engineers, or doctors. If she couldn't cut in half, if she couldn't cut to a negligible number of unemployed, then how and what would happen, by one decision or act, or by one regulation, she says – we will now hire those on the employment records. Is it perhaps a signal or a red light lighting, that you, along with the minister of education, are beginning to slowly determine the criteria for how many people you need to enroll in certain higher-school institutions? Schooling a doctor might be the most expensive schooling. Some medical private colleges can't get a certificate because they can't practice. This implies that really schooling a doctor is very expensive for both the state and society, but certainly also for parents. If that's the case, then we need one more serious way to take care of it. We're no longer from the SRS, and above all, Dr. Paja Momchilov, when it comes to vaccines against swine flu, we talked about it at the beginning, so even before it got into that job. We showed and we indicated that something could happen there, or we had an indication that something was going to happen that wasn't right and that someone was going to be very honest about it. You didn't believe it, and now it turns out we're absolutely right. In that, Mr. Minister, you have full support from the SRS to endure. It can't just happen that two or three people are responsible for such a scandalous scam. Get involved in this much more, in order to gain trust and resolve some of the obligations that you have as minister of duty. In Article 5 of this bill, it is said that the act will be adopted within six months. This applies less to you, probably next to you, your colleagues who are longer in the Ministry of Health than you are, so they know whether this act has been passed, whether, immediately after the adoption of the law, they will start to apply, although it would be best for both the health system and the health care workers and for patients, that this law in the way it is not brought in at all. Besides, it's not just about this law. All the laws we've been having on the agenda lately are some sort of buy-in of time, an expectation of December 9th to get something on the stick. It seems to me that this law is particularly pronounced, and it shouldn't be like that. There are laws that in the lives of Serbian citizens do not have some great application and some great importance, so they can agree, will not harm, but this can also make the health system worse. I hope that no safe man cares about it that way, but simply has a desire to do it differently. We're wondering if they're sublegal acts, which will elaborate these provisions in more detail, whether they've already been done or not? We have some information, just to see if it's to that extent and true. You know, probably, as a health care worker, in ancient China, the best-paid doctors who worked the least. On the other hand, I suggest that they took care of health rather than disease. The wish of the SRS MPs and my personal, of course, as well as a large number of Serbian citizens is that we also bring our health system into such a state that people care, especially health workers, to take care of the health of Serbian citizens, and not later when it is already quite late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63494	16 minutes and 46 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic, the last registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63495	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are absolutely certain that Serbian citizens are unhappy with the state of health system, the quality of the services provided to them, but it is also the fact that health workers are not satisfied with the guessing system currently in place in health institutions. Certainly, in that sense, this law can fit some of the sympathy of health care professionals, because it is primarily intended to eliminate these shortcomings, and some of the shortcomings that we had in the previous period. It seems to us, firstly, that it is extremely incorrect for healthcare professionals to be declared unemployed by this law in some way, and that we amnesty for all those other public administrations, perhaps out of work, and that we do not ask them to receive their incomes, to receive their salaries according to the results of the work. If it starts in one area to change things, if we ignore other public services, I think we're making a big mistake and I think we're sort of demeaning healthcare workers, which is one of the basic SNS issues when it comes to this law. What is a state of health and what is characterized by the state of health is a very bad situation in the Republic Health System Fund itself, the fact that we today have a fund that is about 3.5 billion dinars, that this amount is approximated from 2003, that the funds are very small compared to even the period before the crisis broke out, before 2007, and that there has been no significant shift, or all that we had in some previous period. If we don't make a serious reform of the health system, we come into a situation that we can go back to those years and that situation from the 1990s, which we all described as very bad. So, the budget is very low, the payment of contributions is getting smaller and smaller, the payment of taxes by citizens and businesses is under question and we have the fact that the number of citizens is increasing more and more without their own income being treated for the cost of the health system. The fact is, there are about 1,200,000 of them somewhere. The fact is that the government owes the Fund about 12 billion dinars and only 600,000 dinars. All of this has an important impact on the quality of health services, not just on the state of pay for healthcare workers and on the motive for the work of health workers. So we have the fact that there is a significant increase in the number of users who do not pay for health services, on the one hand, and that the perspectives of the Fund are not even slightly pink, if you look at it in another way. If you look at the economic situation, if you look at the state of our economy, we can only expect a bad situation in some future period. A worse situation because we have an extremely low economic growth, which does not provide adequate social and health policy, i.e. the quality of this policy, which will not allow these allocations to increase over a future period. We have the fact that we have an increasing number of closed companies. We have come to the situation that more businesses today in Serbia are closing, than it is opening, and that hasn't happened in decades. We have a fact that unpaid funds are increasing and increasing at some rate of twenty percent year-on-year. Only when it comes to the Fund of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, I think it's about 80 billion dinars, which is not negligible when you look at the total amount of the fund. So, with inflation, which significantly degrades funds, with unemployment increasing from day to day, we can only expect a much worse situation in health care. It's that big problem that, unfortunately, this government didn't have the courage to solve, not just in this election year, but years ago. There have been a lot of talk about institutional reforms, public sector reforms, but almost nothing has been done. Unfortunately, instead of one serious, at least medium-term, if not long-term policies, we have had politics behind us in these four years, we have had some media one-time campaigns, which have not improved the situation in the long term, neither in our economy, nor in health care, nor in the case of a pension fund, which is as endangered as the Health Insurance Fund. I mean, I think it's an obligation, that health care salaries aren't that big. I think that's one fact. If you look at those data that the union gives, you with doctors who don't have a specialty have a salary of 50,000, and with those with specialization, it can be significantly higher, it crosses 60,000 and beyond. When it comes to nurses, the pay range, at least according to those union records, is 27,000 to 40,000. Assisting healthcare staff has a very low salary, and it is high time that it becomes part of the health system, not that we treat it this way that the receipts are extremely small and move around 20,000 dinars. Given all this, given the fact that the consumer basket is somewhere around 70,000 dinars, that it seems to me that you ministers yourself said that health care was in the seventh or eighth place, when it comes to salaries in the state administration, when we have the fact that the fall of standards for all citizens, and also for health workers, was only in the previous year for a third relative to 2009, we cannot say that health workers have too much income, that these incomes pose a significant threat to the Health Protection Fund. It seems to us from the SNS that the big problem, first of all, is in the spending of funds, not in the part relating to wages, but in the part relating to investments. With that in mind, a large number of affairs were launched in the previous period, but almost none of it was solved. It's all left behind for some future period. Officially, as far as I'm concerned, you're having some affairs and you're running, are you, are you M.O.P.? The authorities involved in corruption and health crime have not responded properly so far, but the solution to these affairs is not being seen. It's obvious that a good part of it is being covered up and that time is passing. The law itself and the application of this law is extremely problematic, I can tell. Troublesome for one simple reason, because we have too much health policy. We have too much politics in the whole of society, but in health care and how. What you came up with will mostly be carried out by the department's chiefs. These department heads are most often people who are politically colored and who will be very often abused by this three-stage reward system and very often by their colleagues who are from the same parties rewarding those who are not from these parties and who are not at all involved in the policy being, I would say second-class doctors. Therefore, I think that there will be a lot of problems in the application of the law itself, that it will create, and in this not-so ideal human relations in health care, even more problems, that there will be even more dissatisfaction with a part of health care workers and that the law, in essence, will not improve the motivation of health workers for work, nor the quality of health services that we will provide in the coming period. This law is, I would also say, a compensation for reforms that you have not implemented in the previous period, perhaps in some way and to run away from responsibility for everything that has happened so far and an attempt to amneste the previous authority for the state of health and health system and, certainly, for all those problems that have accumulated years ago. When you look at all of this, when you add up the effects of this law, I have to agree with those colleagues who have pointed out that this law is extremely problematic. As a party, we tried to intervene with a few amendments, to at least sort of fix this bill. Unfortunately, you've come up with that logic that this government has been handled four years ago – let's take any funding offered by the World Bank or the EU, because we ourselves are unable to produce anything, to create exchangeable goods with which we can go out on the world market, so this lack of foreign exchange, which we need to satisfy this import lobby, make up through donations, through some programmes that are not sufficiently designed and that are often not suitable for reality and state in our institutions. So I would like this law to mean progress for health care, for the quality of health services. It is expected by all citizens, but I doubt that through such a legislative proposal, dealing only with employees' salaries, we will succeed in doing anything seriously when it comes to the health care of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63496	It was used 11 minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. This has exhausted the list of MPs with application for word. Since there are no more reports on the lists, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not used his right under Article 96? Does the minister want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63497	Dear MPs, someone in the legacy gets blue eyes, someone gets a house, some kidney stone, and I've got a legacy to defend the law that you attack and don't support. So that's why I'm here, since when you get something into your inheritance, at the same time you're obliged to inherit it in some way. In order not to implement this legacy now, when this assembly decided that this law, which is on the agenda today, must be adopted during 2010, so when it is not in 2010, it was said in early 2011, so let's finish it at the end of 2011. I'm in that capacity before you today. I've given some introduction, I've heard your remarks, and I hope we can make this law acceptable to the common forces. I don't see any reason for this much pessimism that exists in our society: you won't do anything, we're before the system falls apart, etc. If you think we're falling apart, that's it, but what's significant to me is that we never admit that we're in defeat, so we're going to get out of defeat in one positive state, in one positive result, and I hope we do it together. There were more questions here. I'll try to answer a few questions. Why the big system changes when I promised there would be no major changes to the law? Because the decision has been made, the state has agreed to make this law, based on negotiations that have been made since 2002, and we have an obligation to carry out the obligation. The assembly ratified what the government brought. So that's why we have to pass this law. Second, why does it say 2010? Because the argument was written in 2010, when the law was sent to the Assembly. We didn't supplement anything, and that's why it doesn't say 2011. Does this law apply only to primary health care? No, this law applies to all people who are employed in the health system. Are we in favour of salary hikes now or not? Yes, as Minister of Health, I am obliged to inform you that the doctor's salary is on the secondary level on average 73,819,00 dinars, sisters 37,200,00 dinars. Doctor's salary on primary health care is 56,774,00 dinars and sisters about 31,698.00 dinars. Can the salary be higher? To be honest, if we're paying 28.000,00 per capita, then we can't expect a higher salary at the annual level. If the state strengthens, and I hope that in the next period it will be stronger, then the wages will increase as well. What is unacceptable to me and what I insist on, and since no one has said that, pays in health care 28 places on the salaries of some institutions, including some mentioned here. I have to say, that's unsatisfactory. Ambassador Radet asked about the reception to Old Town DZ. I can tell you that I don't dispute what you said, I don't know, I don't know, but I have to tell you that we have 13,600 unnecessarily agreed workers who were received by directors, not agreed with the Republic Fund, which is a big problem. They were not admitted yesterday but in a longer period of time. Now these workers who pay health institutions from their own income, on an annual basis, are making a deficit of nearly 45 billion dinars, which we are trying to solve by applying some activities. That's a big problem. About the reconstruction of the roof in Old Town, was it, I think you, if there is an anomaly, that you filed a criminal report. You know as a lawyer that this is the best solution, you file criminal charges with evidence, and the competent state authorities will answer you better than I do. I can only do what you told me to pass on to other organs, but I can no longer, like you, interfere in their work, but we can tell what they did on that basis. The big problem here was the work of doctors in Belgrade and the work of doctors, let's say we talked to trade unions today. How will the one in the Shop who has one or two children during the day for review have the same salary as the one in Belgrade that examines 40 children? I must tell you that in the bill of law, the effect is measured according to average work in every health institution. If the average work in the Shop is due to the low birth rate of having two small patients, then it is his average work and he will not be measured and compared to the average work in Belgrade and his salary will not amount to or will not have any problem with it that he must now draw patients from Belgrade to equalise the average work. So it's going towards the average work results of every health care facility. Now they're very interesting what the unions say, as they say, and whether we've been in contact with the unions in the course of our activities. My associates say they've been negotiating this law with unions for two years, and I have to tell you that we've only been tied to this union law since I've had three meetings or four when I was present. Among them is today that has been done in the presence of representative unions and I must tell you that an agreement has been reached. The regulation, which is made after this law, is in the draft and will be together with representatives of the unions. They'll have monthly meetings and regulate all the misunderstandings that can come out of this law. When you say it, an organized alert strike, which was in Nis today. I must tell you that we have agreed with representative trade unions that the jubilee awards for 2009 and 2010 will be paid by the end of the month. The bill is due by the end of the month and a jubilee prize will be paid by the end of the month. Then to pay for January 2011 for the month, the funds were secured, an agreement was reached with the union. Why do they now put it as a problem and as a reason to introduce a warning strike when it's agreed? It is also said, i.e. with representative trade unions, that collective agreements are agreed by the end of the year. An agreement has been reached that all collective agreements under the health system be signed by December 25th. In doing so, we had the Chamber of Health recommend that these collective agreements not be signed, which is against the law. We have held a meeting with them, agreed and they will withdraw their proposal in the Constitutional Court for the Protection of Legality. So there are things that have been arranged, but now this union is coming out. Why is he coming out? They should give us an explanation, as well as many things that happen in Nis, which are agreed with conflicted groups in Nis, but they prefer to inform the public, so be it true or false, but inform the public and put it as a problem. When it comes to whether we have an extra doctor or not, that's one questionable subject. I'll talk about it a little bit later. It says – do not follow the IMF. You know, state policy is state policy. It has been brought, as I told you, in this House and we must implement it in one acceptable way, as it has been brought in in the declarative documents. The chaos in primary protection will not be, as we heard, for the simple reason that this law applies to all categories of employees. Then, is the Labour Act respected or not applied to public sector wages? Be careful, the Labour Act never regulates payment of salaries in the health sector. You know that Article 2, if I'm not wrong, that I'm a lawyer now, Radeta, you're going to correct me, so, Article 2. The labour law allows other institutions to regulate salaries and salaries are constantly regulated by the Public Sector Payments Act, i.e. in public services. Therefore, do not interfere with the Labour Act with these activities. What happens if someone has a temperature of 40 degrees, so his chosen doctor isn't there? He's always got someone to change and he's got to change him. Therefore, people with emergency conditions are constantly admitted and there is no reason to bring someone home. Whether it's in practice or not, I'd like it to be concrete evidence. We have very often in public that somewhere out there, it happened, both that, not the name, not the place, not the man, but people write. That's why I expect specific cases to be resolved. I'm not saying that sometimes someone acts unprofessionally, that's what we need to talk about. Then why is it said work effect, Miss Dimitrijevic says, does not apply to agencies? I'll ask you, it might be a little rude, you probably know that there are people in this congregation who haven't entered for over two years, but they're receiving full personal income. When you ask a question like this, ask that question. Therefore, I am in favour of having everyone paid for in their effect, starting with us at the Ministry of Health, but I think of others, and here I agree with you that they are all covered and treated in the same way. Why now, and not in 2002, this law is passed, I think I answered. Do you need to pull it? We said why we couldn't pull him out of the procedure. When will you solve the redistribution by regulation? The regulation is done, as I told you, and she's working with unions under the conditions I told you here. It says – no pay, no application or proposal given, no such health care is paid. Well, it pays all over Europe. Payment per capita is all over Europe, we are one of the last countries to bring payment per capita. Therefore, if necessary, competent services will prepare legal provisions on other countries and present them to MPs. Why is it being debated by an emergency procedure? I think that's where the answer is. I shouldn't have taken it? Then part of the responsibility lies on me, but it's the easiest thing not to come. You know for a fact that others were supposed to come here today to sit with you and give an explanation. Some didn't show up, they'll get political points. It doesn't matter, I'll get the criticism, but at the same time, I told you that still a man must fulfill what decisions have been made by the competent state authorities. A normal man can't be a health minister. In our desire and hope of being better for all of us, it is much more logical that we all go to solve problems than to stand by and say what we're saying. What happened, he says, is that what the doctor in Loznica said was that someone on the side should come and seduce us. I never liked those who asked for someone to come and seduce the order in my house. Therefore, we will seduce the order after all. I think we have strength and resources and people and capacities. You are, say, one of those capacities that will lead to order in our healthcare system for such discussions that are direct, professional and I support it. All those who worked on our house, they did it badly anyway. The question arises – bright examples. I must say, I am very pleased that many of you have spoken very positively about doctors and medical staff. I thank you for that. I hope that one of these discussions will contribute to the news surface to be both doctors and medical staff, and they are the largest part, as you said, of which I am very pleased, to take central places in the means of information. Their noble work and what adorns them to be depicted unlike some others that we need to sanction and, if necessary, get away from the health system. When it comes to how many unemployed we have? It's 2,120 doctors, 1,200 dentists, 400 pharmacists, about 14,500 nurses and other medical staff, totaling about 20,000. I came up with one proposal, what we're talking about right now, and it's about getting around 600 people, and I've asked for an extra billion for the RZO, given that there's been no reception of regular workers over the past two years. Now I expect these people and all of you here to vote when it comes to voting on the budget to approve that one billion for the Health Insurance Fund. We have proposed one measure, and this is the introduction of excise duties on tobacco and alcohol and with these means will not require any other means, to use both for reception and for care, what Mr. Momchilov has constantly potentiated, chronic non-infectious diseases that were the main reason of the UN meeting in September of the month where we had our delegation that took part and businesses for a number of measures and activities to reduce the number of cardio-vascular diseases, as well as malignancies and other diseases. As far as this reception is concerned, we also told these people at the same time, which is that registration policy has to be different. That such a registration policy does not lead to anything, that it leads only to an increase in the number of unemployed and that we have taken concrete steps to meet, especially the deans of the university, and then to propose to the Ministry of Education the registration quotas, much less than anticipated for these people to get a job. At the same time, we have proposed a series of measures to work in the state and private sector, let's say that one who owns a private office should not work privately in the state service, etc. What is now a bigger problem, I have to tell you that some names of specialization, education or these diplomas are nowhere to fit in. There are, like, a dozen names and those people who finished those schools never recognized each other anywhere, not even in the health care system. Like biochemistry, which ends in the Faculty of Biochemistry, specialization in biochemistry at the Faculty of Pharmacy, etc. Then some names are very ghouly, say sanitary technicians, etc., that we don't get into details that you can't fit anywhere, for employment. Nor are nutritionists predicted anywhere, etc. And that's something we need to solve. I told you we agreed this with the unions. As for the example of China, we support it, that it is paid by the results of the work, that is one intensities of this law that we are talking about today. No one proclaims these health workers to workers, Mr. Antitsuk. On the contrary, we want health care professionals, as I said with 28 jobs per salary, to get as much as they deserve, and it takes time, and that's one of the goals for healthcare professionals to say exactly what they did or didn't do. Now I'm going to ask you, when you ask questions, I don't want to be personal, but what do we do with a surgeon who has two surgeries in a month? What do we do, say, with an orthopaedic that has four surgeries in a month? Some surgeons in some major health institutions perform during one day, much more complex procedures. What do we do with people who can't or don't have five patients who have defined themselves as the chosen doctor? Now we're slowly facing this problem. These people who have so little to do have now become the loudest and are now addressing, among other things, some people in the congregation, criticizing everything and everything instead of turning around and doing their job. So, we told this pay cut, just to make an average health care facility and pay no one will be cut by this law. So if she's from the Shop, let's take an example of the Shop because that's my end, because I'm from southern Serbia, if he has three or four views, so many children come to the review, if his average two reviews a day he won't have a lower salary. So that's something we've been taking care of and keeping an eye on until we get to the results that we all want and we don't make the health system much more effective than it is now. Is the health budget small? Yes, we already said, because in 2007, he was twice as big as in 2011. We expect this debt, let's say, if it were to be paid, of some 80 billion dinars not paid, although we have now proposed these legal bases. For example, the bankruptcy of some companies, all funds are filled, and the only health obligation is not foreseen by law. I have an understanding here from the President of the Assembly, and I also see that the government has just come and we're asking for it to end, in fact, to change the law and thus provide the funds. Everything's not so bad, it'll be better. I thank you for one constructive discussion you had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63498	I thank Mr. Minister and I give my word to the Faith of Radetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63499	A few comments from what Mr. Minister commented and that he addressed first of all to the SRS parliamentary group, because we are the only ones as you see and participate in the work, and you have put one of the remarks here that pays an MP who does not come to the Assembly Hall, you have said for years or months, however, it would be good to ask the MPs who voted for you. Look, we're here and we're working. You said you expected me to file a criminal report on the reconstruction of the Old Town House of Health roof. Minister, I've informed you, and you have associates next to you who should probably check all this out. I don't expect you to go up on the roof yourself, but you have associates looking for the paperwork I gave you. In addition, if the MP speaks publicly, from here on out, it is certainly binding on the public prosecutor, because the public prosecutor also has to follow every publicly spoken word. So I expect you to keep your promise with your first address to the MPs, that you will seriously fight corruption. It would be good if when you spoke about the Shop, Mrs. Djukic, I apologize if I pass a few minutes without interrupting, I'll just have a brief discussion with the minister, please. So when you were talking about the Shop and you said that a doctor at the Shop wouldn't have a lower salary because there are two patients, then I ask you – what do you need this law for? So you're not going to apply that corrective coefficient. On the other hand, in the first part of your address when you were talking about the Shop, the question is: what do you as a minister and what do you as a government do to make it tempting, let's say, for a young doctor from Belgrade not to wait five or ten years at the Employment Service, but to have conditions in the Shop that he can go there to work, to form a family? What are you doing in that direction? Not everything in Belgrade, Minister, you know very well how it is in the area where you were born. You know very well how things are. Otherwise, what do you do when it comes to the employment of young doctors? This is all in the context of this law and the context of the means, now let's not say again, today we've been telling you how you can save so you can create better health conditions... (President: Good, bring the end. ) Please, while we were arguing here, I heard from the President of the Municipality of Strpce, Zvonko Mihajlovic, and asked me to ask the minister, the so-called Kosovo government made a hospital in Strpce. Some doctors, even the director of the Health House in Strpc, our only legal, Serbian, are negotiating with the intention of moving on to that Shiptar hospital. The question referred by Zvonko Mihajlovic, president of the Municipality of Strpce, is – does this have anything to do with the ministry, are you familiar with it and what will it do to stop it? There are more questions but not to Slavica. I asked a question, so if the minister can answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63500	Tomorrow's Thursday, you'll ask questions tomorrow. Tomorrow's the chance for the minister to respond. (Verica Radeta, from the scene: The opportunity is also to come here Borko Stefanovic, among other things, to answer that, but you do not give, you do not let us talk about KIM. Thank you. I suggest the minister respond tomorrow, but if you'd like to respond now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63501	It's very interesting to talk to you. The questions are fine. I'll let you know we'll send a memo tomorrow. She was assigned to Dubravka Saranovic to inform the competent service related to DZ "Old Town". When it comes to the problem that we're talking about, let's say, with the Smurf, we don't have any information about that. In any case, I'd like to inform you that we've established complete control of the supply of these drug enclaves, with all the necessary sanity resources, and there's no problem with their security. We have requests from the Smurf four people for now who are asking to be accepted. We have a request from a dentist whose wife works in Strpce. He's asking to be accepted. We have a request from three sisters. I think we have some kind of coordination with those people who run health care in Kosovo. As for the Shop and that end, since I'm from southern Serbia, as you know, but that's a little south of me, this percentage or average number of reviews refers to a number, let's say if you have two pediatricians, one has eight, one has four reviews, when it comes to the pay average. What do we need this law for? We said, and we agreed that it was necessary, and that's what I said before, and all this other stuff that happens... These discussions are very constructive and help us to see problems that we have not seen and together with you to resolve them in a way that is acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-23-0.u63502	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding a principled review of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
