ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51040	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are more than 84 MPs in the Hall of 90 MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move to a further session, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to congratulate, on behalf of the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanović and on our common behalf, everyone in Serbia on 8 March, the International Women's Day, who was founded as a day of memory of the struggle for women's rights, for the right to work, for peace, for social justice, for solidarity and equality, for the common, ours, and for men and women's jobs that will change our lives for the best, for the day of memory and reminder. I want something nice to happen to them today, March 8th. Continuing the work, I would like to remind you that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in its 1st position that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which are required by the MP to exercise his office. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly, orally, in a single address, for up to five minutes Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. The People's MP Nikola Krpić came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51041	Dear Chairman, I would like to request a letter from the Director of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, and in the same text as the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr Ljajic. In this congregation, I asked one question almost three months ago. I've received answers from some institutions, but now these two institutions are very important for the right answer. You certainly know that 70 years ago, here, it will be October 14th, General Beme ordered the shooting of the population in the King. The royal strategy has remained unsettled since then, for various reasons, I am accusing no one of unhappiness, negligence, etc. Please, the Royal National Museum, the Regional Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the So Kingdom, the Royal Heritage Society and about three thousand successors of gunmen in the King express their protest because nothing has been done on this historic site. Some intensities were, an idea project was done by our most famous architect Paja Krunic, all of which exist, however, due to lack of funds and concerns of the responsible there has not been much done. The situation is now such that if a republican funeral home in this country sent a request to Minister Ljajic... The budget that we have voted in this assembly has allocated funds to finance such cultural monuments. I would also ask Mr Ljajic and the director of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments of Serbia to assist this project and to, by 14 October 2011, when 70 years from that day, even if the names of the dead are marked. Like this, it's just one clean space, which will run over time. In the name of all those I mentioned, I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51042	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51043	Honorable MPs, the chairman of the assembly, are launching dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina today in Brussels. I wanted to ask a question to the President of the Assembly, and one question to the Government. The question for the President of the Assembly is – will this assembly ever be involved in this process in any way? Will they discuss it, will it bring appropriate acts, such as resolutions? Will it come out of this name and anonymity, when it comes to this matter? The question for the government is – will the Serbian public be informed in time of these talks or at least receive some information in advance about what is being prepared and what are the intentions and strategies of the state in this matter, or will the post-festum be informed from foreign and domestic sources? Talks are starting today in Brussels about what happened today. With everyday life issues. At the globe today, six and a half billion people solve their daily life issues within their own countries. In this case, for the most part, daily Serb life issues will be resolved within the framework of the illegal and falsely declared state of Kosovo. Serbia actually plays a specific role in this dialogue to confirm this situation. If that's what this is all about, I'm just going to quote, from today's "Politicals", a statement by Thomas Cantrimen, deputy assistant secretary of state or assistant deputy secretary of state, I didn't really remember the function that would be present at these guest talks. So, the European Union, which received the exclusive right to intervene in these talks, called on one state and one representative as a guest. Of course, we know that the United States is not a guest here, that they are the initiator of an independent Kosovo and that together with NATO they have made this artificial creation of our southern province. But, Mr. Cantrimen, although the deputy assistant or assistant deputy, is very relevant to these things and his statements are very proportionate, precisely because the United States is the leader of this process. I will only read one sentence, which says: "What is just beginning in Brussels is an opportunity for these two countries to discuss with each other quite practical initiatives that will improve the lives of everyone in Kosovo. “ So it is clear to everyone what America thinks, what the EU will do on behalf of America, as a mediator in this dialogue. We can, of course, just pretend that we don't know it and willingly accept our government's initiatives to talk in Brussels about what's so-called. life issues. When it comes to this thing, the so-called. living issues, it is quite clear that Serbs in Kosovo do not want their daily life issues to be resolved by Pristina. The whole game is that Serbia will one day agree, based on this dialogue, that Pristina, i.e. Albanian institutions, in the way they know and how they have shown so far, solve so-called. Serbians' life issues. The risk is so high that the EU-sponsored talks are under way, with it as its ultimate goal of involving Serbia and Kosovo as two independent states in the EU and the promise of their bright future in the EU. Of course, every Serbian citizen knows the chances of such a reality. We today have Serbia's candidacy as an unattainable goal, without talking about membership. So, it's one carrot or, in order to make one European analyst more graphic, a chopped carrot, or one of its pieces standing in front of our negotiators, so that those who accept the initiatives of intermediaries under the influence of the EU and the United States and so that this thing ends as it was initiated on 9 September by that resolution in the General Assembly. That's why these two questions are important, and I expect the answers to those I asked for, to deliver it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51044	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51045	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of Minister of Local Self-Government and State Administration Milan Markovic why he did not respond within the legal deadline to the opposition of the parliamentary groups of the Party for Democratic Action, the Democratic Union of Albanians and the Democratic Union of the Valley to SO Presevo, which was delivered to the ministry on 14 December last year. It is an objection to the very serious violation of the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government in the discharge of the former president and the appointment of the new, current president, SO Presevo, as well as the adoption of the municipal budget for 2011. In addition to the difficult failures in calling for this session, in addition to the procedures foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, at the session of SO Presevo, held on 8 December last year, all decisions, very important decisions, were made by an incomplete majority, which in the case of SO Presevo 20 committees. The 20th panel is controversial because, based on previous comments by Minister Markovic, he lost his mandate because he was appointed as the municipality's assistant president. It is clear that all three decisions, and the adoption of the municipal budget and these significant changes of the first man in the assembly, have been made by 19 votes, which is absolutely insufficient, since 20 votes for such decisions are necessary in the assembly. There is no answer, and this directly involves the assembly’s illegalities and only the ministry, becoming a participant, in fact, of these illegal activities in the assembly. They did not respect the statutes or legal provisions when they were resolved and appointed by very important executives in the local self-government. The ministry's further silence in some way contributes to the chaos created in this local self-government. This legal chaos is absolutely jeopardising the general interest of citizens in the Presevo municipality. Therefore, I am incentivising the urgency of this issue in order to take the necessary measures to establish order in the work of SO Presevo, although all legal deadlines have been breached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51046	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is well known that negotiations between the Serbian delegation and the Albanian delegation have started in Brussels. The head of the delegation is Borko Stefanovic, political director of the Serbian Foreign Ministry. I contacted him, and I said, as president of the Democratic Left of Roma, the parliamentary party in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that it is necessary for the Roma to represent their community in those negotiations, which he accepted. I believe that the Roma have experienced both escapes and exodus and a lot of these tragedies, as well as the majority people, and it is very important that we, as legitimate representatives of the Roma community, be at these negotiations and engage in the interests of the Roma community. We all know that there is no democracy in Kosovo yet, that freedom of movement is what it is, that Roma are very weak or in no way involved in social flows in Kosovo and Metohija. I appeal, on behalf of the Democratic Left of Roma, that in the future we should engage in talks and negotiations on the Serbian side and on the part of Pristina, to include a representative of the Roma community, in the interest of Roma. We know that the houses were destroyed there, that they were wiped off those streets where they lived, we know that life is hard out there. We need to see what is wrong with this land, a disaster, residential areas, where they will return, how they will live, how the Kosovo government will accept the Roma, integrate them and allow them all rights, as well as all other communities. I hope the next negotiations do not bypass the Democratic Left of Roma and its representative. It is very important, if we have the rule of law, and I believe that this is a democratic state of Serbia, which has done a lot for the integration of the Roma community, and we are looking for that rule of law, to attend the negotiations and say exactly what we need to say, in the interest of democratisation of our country and the Roma community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51048	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the foreign ministry a question because, at the MIP initiative, our country joined the EU and imposed sanctions on Belarus. Let me just say that the EU Council on 31 January froze funds and banned travel for about 160 officials from the Belarusian government and other individuals believed to have participated in alleged fraud in the elections. Imagine you, Serbian citizens, and you MPs, in what kind of world we live in today; it is said they are believed to have done something! Because someone believes, sanctions are being imposed for alleged fraud in the election for President Belarus. In the election where the candidate, among the ten candidates, Alexander Lukashenko received about 80% of the votes. Unfortunately, the European Union is trying all the time in Belarus to realise the so-called "orange revolution" to find the fifth column in Belarus, as it has found in other countries, as it found in Serbia on October 5th, in order to achieve its plan and put Belarus under its control. Normally, all those who have worked on the EU and Washington orders in other countries, in the first place, are included in this. The OSCE, which is silent and unspeakable for all electoral fraud in Serbia, found that the elections in Belarus allegedly were not in line with the rules, with no single reason being presented, no single reason. That's why the Resistance sent its activists, believing it would help to do in Belarus what they did in Serbia and what they did in some other countries in Europe, and, as I hear, what they do in the Middle East. There, however, they encountered an insurmountable obstacle, first of all to the people of Belarus, which understands the conditions of today's world, understands what would happen if the European Union were to conduct them, as it conducts Serbia. I understand that you can't do anything for this country, you can't improve the lives of Serbian citizens, you can't deal with crime and corruption, but don't humiliate us. Did you forget, in 1999, at a time when Serbia was bombed, at the time Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko got on a plane and flew to Belgrade, when it was the hardest time for us. You're imposing sanctions. That was never in Serbia's history! You're destroying this country. You've destroyed it economically, it can be repaired, but this kind of national humiliation, as you do all the time, it crosses every possible limit! Here, let me remind you of the last case involved in pulling an APB on Purda. How can you not be ashamed? Since you're not ashamed, you press charges, it's not before 2000, but in 2007, to say that there's allegedly not enough evidence to prosecute Purda and two others who are accused. Then who will be responsible for this disgrace and shame of this country? Or is it a political warrant that came in? Because Serbs are allowed to kill. Only Serbs have to respond and only Serbs have to be found guilty of everything that has happened in the last 20 years. I am sure that history will assess this the way it should be assessed, and I insist that you stop humiliating Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51050	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51051	Dear Vice President, dear fellow Members of the People, I want to use this address to congratulate all our mothers, sisters, colleagues today's holiday, March 8th, with the sincerest wish that as many days a year, of 365 days, looks like today. Also, I'd like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Sports and Youth, since I don't know if I'm going to get an answer to my questions in some regular procedure just in time. I must say, it's politically fair that Mrs. Sports and Youth Minister, as far as I'm concerned, was the poorest in answering the questions I've asked. Even, by adopting my amendment, she invited me to open up a playground for disabled athletes, I mean Adi Gypsies. I thanked you most kindly (I don't know, Madam Minister, if you've won), I thought I wasn't so worthy of opening that playground. This does not mean that I will not ask you any other questions, in the common interest of both you and your ministry and citizens of Serbia who are disabled, disabled athletes. I don't know how many members of the people present know, depending on the years, I think the MPs and the MPs of my age and the elders know who Vera Djuraskovic is. Vera Djuraskovic is, and it's time today, on March 8, we say, our famous basketball player; she may have been a female Government of Divac during the common state, I don't know exactly, but I think she played over 300 times for our team. Why do I mention her? It's not a marriage to her, it's not a eulogy to her, she's the selector of our paralympic team in basketball. Recently, a few months ago, since the GO NS in Chačka took on itself that it traditionally organizes a basketball wheelchair sportsman tournament and plays basketball, I learned that they do not have the most basic means to compete. If we didn't talk about one specialized hall where all the clubs would be, and there are only five or six clubs in Serbia... In countries that have a similar population as Serbia, there are hundreds. In general, paralympic sport in the world, in developed countries, and not to say in European, is treated like this, so to speak, in healthy athletes. These competitions are attended by several tens and hundreds of thousands of viewers. I suggest that if we don't already have a specialized hall, as soon as possible, if God can and finally warm up once, you're throwing one game in basketball, where the selector Vera Djuraskovic is, and we all go there together and support those people. Believe them to be very serious athletes. I personally tried to sit in a wheelchair and play basketball with them. We'll lose everyone here, both younger and older, with zero. They're very serious about training, they're very serious about preparing, but they have some questions. Besides not having that O.R., I don't want to accuse anyone, maybe there's a lack of material resources for their training... You know, Madam Minister, when you look at that one ministry, which we're going to do in the afternoon, gave 500,000 euros for a tournament, a tennis tournament, which is private, 500,000 euros, to take pictures of Comrade Gilas and Comrade Dulic in front of empty stands... That's when I didn't know what they had to do with tennis. The other day, I found out in the paper, if that's not true, let someone deny me, that they sponsored with several thousand euros that tournament. I ask the question, how many rackets could be bought for that money? How many balls, so that we have more, if God will, and new Djokovics, new Annas, and new Helens and new Victors. Let's not forget what I'm in charge of, working together, I think you've figured out the honesty of my words, helping together to make it really possible for these disabled athletes... Since time is running out, I can tell you that we, as GO NS, have paid two quotations for our disabled centenisers, lack a few points to gain status to participate in the Paralympic Games, and that already means something in their status. Thank you very much and thank you for letting me talk a little longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51052	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51053	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first of all to congratulate all the ladies, women, mothers and sisters in Serbia on March 8th, a significant date in the exercise of women's rights. Also, on behalf of the SPO, I would like to remind you that tomorrow is March 9th. Some in a joke say it's men's day, and we think it's a day of democracy in Serbia and a date of respect, a date with only one stain, and that's exactly what I want to ask a question, but also send some political messages. The Serbian Renewal Movement sought freedom of the media on 9 March, demanding the resignation of editors of Television Belgrade, who prepared the entire nation for unnecessary war. We've succeeded in our demands. Several months before the start of the war campaign, all the media in Serbia were free; editors of Television Belgrade whose resignations we asked for were resigned; the resignation was submitted by the then interior minister; a few days after the nine-mart demonstrations of a large rally on the free market, and then Belgrade's TV. Today, twenty years after the nine-mart demonstrations, the SPO does not want, primarily because of participants in nine-mart demonstrations and respect for their great contribution to Serbia, for the development of democracy in Serbia and for the fact that before and after 9 March in Serbia, nothing was the same, and although it does not want to cancel its biography, it does not want to make compromises in Serbia ever again between European and anti-European forces, because we lost ten years until 2000, and since 2000, we are precisely due to these compromises in a great delay, which we want to make up for in the process of joining our country's EU. Unfortunately, two people died on March 9th. One student is Branivoje Milinović, and no day or day is known who the boys' killers are, who is then 17 years old, on Duke Milos Street, near the London Hotel. The second is police officer Milinko Kosovic. The Serbian Renewal Movement, precisely because of the fact that it is not responsible for the deaths of these two people, wants to ask the question of the interior minister -- while police, since the head of Mr. Ivica Dacic, have arrived at the lighting of these two murders, which should not burden only the SPO, but the whole of Serbia, because they are innocent victims? I say, the demonstrations were for the freedom of the media, and we didn't want, unfortunately, what happened. Secondly, I think that even twenty years after 9 March, many in Serbia say the SPO then missed the chance to change the regime then. Our intention was not to change the regime at the time, because, unfortunately, most Serbian citizens were in favour of the regime, the military and the police, and Milosevic showed willingness to preserve power by performing both tanks and the then military on the streets of Belgrade. On the other hand, apart from the fact that, regardless of the election theft, he had the support of Serbs in Serbia, Milosevic at the time had the support of the international public, the military and police, who was ready to make a new Tianmen in Belgrade. It wasn't like that on October 5th. That is why I say, the Serbian Renewal Movement, due to some compromises that have been made since 5 October and further with the anti-European forces, never wants to see a compromise in Serbia again with those who drag back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51054	Does any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward to take advantage of their right to Article 286(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. () Since no one is answering anymore, we continue our work. Notification of the invitations to the sitting: pursuant to Article 90(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development, Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Snezana Samardzic Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, attend and Dragan Vukmirović, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Zoran Jančić and Miroslav Jankovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute. We move on to a common principle and single search of the 4-6th agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on the List of dwellings, households and dwellings 2011. Year, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the List of Polyprivred 2011. Year and proposal for a Decision on the Official STATISTICS Programme in the 2011 period. Until 2015. YEAR A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts in the agenda under points 4, 5 and 6, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament's Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 24 minutes; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, since we are Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 4, obliges us to accept the application for a word until the opening of the search, in this case a joint principle and uniform search. I also inform you that according to this item of the agenda of the parliamentary group, the following MPs will be: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic of the PUPS Parliament Group; MP Zoran Bortic of the SPS - JS Parliament Group; MP Zoran Babic MP of the Prost of Serbia; MP Milica Radovic of the DSS and MP Milorad Buha Assembly Group of the SRS. If any other parliamentary groups decide to have an authorised representative, please provide us with information on this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011, Proposal for a Law amending the Agricultural List Act 2011 and a Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme for the period 2011 to 2015. Does the government's representative, sports and youth minister, Snezana Samardzic Markovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Are the rapporteurs of the Committee on Science and Technological Development of People's MPs Janko Veselinović, a member of the Committee, a rapporteur for the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments 2011 and Pavel Marchok, deputy chairman of the Committee, rapporteur for the Proposal for a Law amending the 2011 Agricultural List Act and the Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme for the period 2011 to 2015, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bortic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51055	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected minister and representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a legislative regulation covering the list of people and material goods of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the modelling of our country's statistical programme, is a significant normative Corps, for several reasons. Not to go into a deeper design of these reasons on this occasion, it is enough to remind myself that without the exact statistics, which are verifiable and comprehensive, no serious state can plan its future in any area. It is precisely because of the importance of statistics as a comprehensive method of planning more or less all areas of social development that Serbia has added to its recent history the importance of the legislative regulation of this area, and, as is known, the census of its population towards international standards that our country has been approaching for decades. Starting with this importance of the census for the overall development of our country, the legislator and the decisions we are discussing today have been defined for solutions that will adapt the existing legislation to the social context in which Serbia is presently located and ensure that our statistical standards comply with current international standards, above all with the standards that apply to the EU. In the draft Law amending the 2011 Census Act, the proposer, in addition to the constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law, had in mind and the fact that, in world terms, the census of the population is the most common and complex form of statistical research, both by content and methodological solutions and by its specific organisation. Such a large task will allow the provision of normative assumptions that the 2011 census results would identify the total number of inhabitants, the number of households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia, as well as their schedule at lower territorial levels, administrative districts, cities, municipalities and settlements. This will allow quick and more efficient processing of data on individual parts of each settlement, up to the level of statistical and list circles. This will allow users of these data from the area of population policy, spatial planning, the realization of general and regional urban projects, but also from many other areas, to use these data in the best way to realise their projects. List methodology based on vital migration and other characteristics of the population will provide a precise picture of structural changes that occurred after the last census in 2002. In addition, for the first time since World War II the list will collect data on the functional ability of the person to perform daily activities at home, at work, at school and so on, thus providing a framework for the creation of a unique database on people with disabilities. It should be pointed to the fact that one of the creative goals of the census will also be the identification link to the agricultural list, a team before the list of the area was last made in Serbia in 1960. Since the list of farms will be made after the census, it will be an opportunity to use the existing human resources and information equipment rationally, as well as to save significant material resources. It is very important that the proposed legislative solutions have created assumptions that the upcoming list, both by volume of content and by complexity of methodological solutions, is in full compliance with international recommendations and the prescribed standards of the UN and Eurostat. At the same time, how much serious access to this job is also evidenced that at the time of the list activities for this comprehensive field action, about 50,000 participants will be hired, which will top all the lists so far. The draft law has moved the deadline for the census, which was scheduled for the period from 1 April to 15 April, by six months; so the census will take place from 1 October to 15 October 2011. As a reason for this move, the proponent cites the lack of financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget, assessing that some of the funds will be provided by the EU grant, which will be available only in September of this year. At the same time, the promoter recalls that the postponement of the census by six months will ensure that statistics are comparable to those of the international community, as well as the fact that the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe defines that each member of these associations should be independent in the 2011 reference year to determine the period for the implementation of the census. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in addition to the fact that I have already pointed out that in the Republic of Serbia, a comprehensive list of agriculture was carried out far away in 1960 and that Serbia as a state of crucial importance is to establish precise data on the situation in this area, the reasons for the adoption of the law amending the Agricultural List Act rests and the need to bring our legislation into line with European norms so that we can achieve the objective for which we have been defined, which is full EU membership. In order to be able to monitor the process of adapting our country to the envisaged European standards and assess the degree of success on that path, it is necessary to introduce a number of statistical indicators in agriculture statistics. In this context, the precondition for starting the adjustment is to implement a full list of agriculture. It will aim to obtain a comprehensive review of the structural characteristics of national agriculture, the creation of a database that will be internationally comparable and based on key agricultural features. In this way, a statistical register of agricultural holdings will be established, providing a framework for agricultural research on the pattern and research on the structure of agricultural holdings. Statistical data will also be provided for the development of a sustainable national agrarian policy. It will also provide data to monitor the achievement of the objectives set out in the Millennium Development Goals. The importance of the area regulated by the proposed legal text is best reflected in the fact that the list of agriculture must be fully harmonised with world standards and recommendations, i.e. EU legislation on the implementation of research on the structure of agricultural holdings and the production method in agriculture. The above-mentioned standards will provide data that will be the basis for all future surveys of agriculture statistics and for defining agriculture in the Republic of Serbia, and above all the basis for providing the necessary information in the EU accession process. Since the list of farms will be carried out immediately after the census, the same authorities and personnel in charge of the census are intended to be used for both lists. This will save significant financial resources, but also ensure the expertise and training of personnel to carry out this extremely large and comprehensive statistical research. Dear People's MPs, starting with the Law on Official Statistics, which stipulates that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is making a five-year statistical programme and starting with the Law on the National Assembly, which prescribes that the National Assembly, in addition to other acts and decisions, has created normative assumptions that this assembly is making a decision on the 2011-2015 official statistics programme. Given the fact that our country is in the process of intensive activities in adapting and standardisation our regulations with EU regulations, and in particular that the implementation of statistical research and the provision of statistical indicators is an important segment of these activities, this has imposed the need to develop a five-year statistical programme. The adoption of this programme and EU accession are interdependent, as official statistics should ensure monitoring and measuring the results of these activities, especially in the economic sphere. It will also provide for the assessment of the criteria for the ability to take over from EU membership and the monitoring of indicators of meeting the economic criteria for membership in future negotiations for the conclusion of an EU accession agreement. Also, the obligations of official statistics of the Republic of Serbia are not only due to our activities in the EU accession process, but stem from relations with other international institutions, from the UN, the IMF, the World Bank, the OECD and a number of others. Therefore, the official statistics programme of the Republic of Serbia from 2011 to 2015 aims to harmonise statistical research and indicators with international standards, notably EU standards, fully implement the process. It should be noted that the five-year programme was discussed and supported by the Council for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, which formed the government in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Official Statistics. Starting with the fact that the Council as an expert body and part of an integrated system of official statistics has given its opinion on this programme, as well as the need to regulate normally this extremely important area of social development of our country, especially when it comes to the EU integration process, we believe that the proposed solutions to the two laws and decisions on the official statistics programme are a good normative framework for the realisation of the vast research venture of the population and agriculture list. At the same time, conditions will be created for the standardisation of our statistical methods and content in line with world and European solutions. Therefore, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support the proposed amendments to the Law amending the Census Act, the Law amending the Agricultural List Act and the Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme from 2011 to 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51056	Twelve minutes and fifteen seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Babic, on the basis of Article 90(2) of the notice to the MPs that a break will be set today at 1400 hours, whether or not we will end the debate in a joint principled search of the three agenda points that is under way. If we do not finish it, you will be notified of a further discussion of the joint principled search. So, the break will be normal, one hour, and in 15.00 hours, a new session is scheduled, at which you will be informed whether there will be an extension of the work, or the application of Article 87. I think it's good to know that we'd be able to afford our time. MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51057	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Ministers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has referred the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011 to the assembly procedure on 4 February 2011, only a few months after the adoption of the basic law. A representative of the government in the National Assembly was provided for Mrs Verica Kalanovic, ex-minister, for the ex-NIP ministry. Today is March 8, 2011, International Women's Day. I will join my colleagues and, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS and, in my personal name, all wives, mothers, mothers, sisters, co-workers, all ladies, women's sexes in Serbia, congratulations on March 8th, with a desire for good health, success in the business they are dealing with and to take up not only the prescribed minimum function, but to participate in Serbia's political life as much as possible. The Serbian government's representative on this agenda is no longer Verica Kalanovic, no longer a member of the government. There have been some new names among ministers that we will see at the afternoon session. However, all these new ones, and in fact old names don't bring new energy, new ideas, or new policies. The changes are only possible with extraordinary parliamentary elections and no cosmetic changes and mergers you will not be able to deceive citizens of Serbia who want a better life, more work and perspective, and not the performances and distractions that you are trying to survive a little more in power in Serbia. Madam Minister, when you say the word "census" in Serbia, the first association refers to elections, to extraordinary parliamentary elections, which the SNS also advocates, but also to most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The word "census" is also associated with a pre-election campaign, a peaceful, dignified, gandavian, but is also associated with a change in power that is perfectly normal and natural in developed democracies, a normal process, such as in Ireland, where only ten days ago in the opposition parliamentary elections, the opposition received convincing support from citizens. Census is also a nightmare for most parties on the political scene, both for most parties who exercise power and for a good number of parties located and operating in the opposition, because the censorship for them is too large and almost insurmountable a barrier. The barrier, as well as the benefits it has and benefits from the political elite, are some of the reasons why the government in Serbia is deafening the SNS's call and request for early parliamentary elections. However, the word "census" originally means a census, which is an organised collection of various population data conducted by a country. The censuses have a long tradition, as the first primitive forms of the census are believed to have been carried out by the Babylonians for 3800 years BC. In history there are also known motives for making a list, so Greeks, Jews, Chinese, Egyptians, Romans made lists of the population for tax collection or insight into the country’s military force, so these primitive lists meant only the male population. After the destruction of the Roman Empire, there was no census for a long time. They only appeared in 1086 when William the Conqueror made some kind of list of English landowners and their landowners, but that was also for the purpose of determining the tax to be paid to the king. The first modern list was made in the French territory of Canada in 1665 and 1666, then in the United States in 1790, Sweden and Finland in 1800, Wales, France and England in 1801, Russia in 1897 and China in 1953. In some countries, the truth of the will, not a large number of states, lists have never been held, and this is the case with Ethiopia and Oman. Serbia was trying not to lag behind other countries at the time when the first censuses were carried out, so the first census in Serbia was completed in 1834. However, the list did not have the features of modern lists. As different parts of our country were ruled by other countries in different times, we can use Turkish, Austrian, Bulgarian and Hungarian lists to analyze our country's population today. In the former Yugoslavia from 1921 to 1991, censuses were held eight times. After the break-up of the former Yugoslavia in Serbia, the census was completed in 2002. In order to honour the UN Population Commission's recommendation, which suggested that due to the possibility of data collection between different countries, censuses are carried out at the end or beginning of the decade, 2011 is the deadline for the census in Serbia. The reason for not delaying the census, even for these six months that you have proposed these amendments and amendments to the law, is the fact that the lists will be implemented in the EU this year and that the lists will cover about 500 million people. The census has already begun in Bulgaria. Apart from the EU, this will be a census year for countries in Serbia's environment, such as Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro, BiH and Croatia. We simply don't believe you that some new amendments to the List Act, possibly in the fall session, if you survive until then, will not again request a new deadline to postpone the list. If it is known that the census is necessary for economic, social and other policies, if it is known that the aim of the list of agriculture is, first after 1960, to allow the state the most relevant data needed for the development of agriculture and the accession of Serbia to the EU, then the reasons you cited for the delay of the census are irrelevant at least. For SNS, only maintaining a census, households and apartments, as well as a list of agriculture, is an undeniable and necessary civilization process. Our objections to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Census Act refer to the reasons why this law is passed, or to the reasons why the census itself is delayed. Our objections, both in the adoption of the basic law and in the adoption of these amendments and in addition to the Law, relate also to the cost of the census, but also in the way, i.e. the technology of making a census in 2011. Neither in the basic law nor now in the amendments and additions to the law are clearly defined basic organisational stages of the census, such as preparation, or the way and technology of information collection. Why is that from door to door, even though it's the most expensive and classical process? Why not use some other, more modern, alternative methods of censusing, mailing, say, or self-recording? What about the data analysis, the control of the list and the publication of the data? What is important for the SNS is also very important questions that the lists will ask. Are we as a society and as a state ready to give quick and quality answers to painful questions and facts that the census and the list of agriculture will bring to our faces? Will the state waste time on barren analysis and promises, and the problems that have accumulated for decades will remain the same or will it increase? The list of farms will tell us that there are 4,800 villages in Serbia, and there are almost 1,200 villages on the way to extinction. There are about 260,000 single boys living in these villages who set foot in the fifth decade of their lives without starting a family. At the same time, in the vicinity of these villages, there are an unprocessed 600,000 ha of fields and close to 50,000 empty houses. Who's gonna fill those houses? Who's going to resuscitate those households? Such data is also evidenced by the fact that in 702 settlements in Serbia live less than a hundred inhabitants, more specifically, in 352 settlements there are less than 50 inhabitants, and in 350 between 50 and 100 inhabitants. As a rule, these are youthless settlements, and it is estimated that in less than two decades these settlements will be completely relaxed. What have you, as a government in the past eleven years, done to stop such a process and such a trend or at least slow it down? Serbia has 5.11m ha of agricultural land, of which the farmland is 4.25m ha. The Serbian field is made up of hurricanes and gardens with 3.35m ha, orchards 244,000 ha, vineyards 69,000 ha, meadows 588.000 ha, pastures 821,000, while ponds and ponds occupy 35,000 ha. On these surfaces, enough food can be produced for both its own needs and reserves, but also for export. The prognosis of experts is that Serbia could feed nearly 80 million people from those surfaces, along with intensive production. However, due to the poor economic treatment of agriculture for the last half-century, this economic activity has largely been a shocker of economic and political developments. There's always been talk that we won't be agrarian land, so we don't admit it today. Agriculture, though the largest open-air factory in Serbia, is not a strategic activity and, unfortunately, with such power, it will not be after a list of agriculture, which is carried out in Serbia after 50 years, or is expected to be carried out. Is it because you don't want to see the results of your perilous policy? Compared to 2000, the number of cattle in Serbia decreased by more than 300,000, the number of pigs decreased by more than 250,000, the number of cattle decreased by more than four million pieces, while meat production decreased by about 6,000 tonnes compared to 2000. For a full decade, we cannot export a third of the approved export quota of 9,975 tonnes of meat and meat processing to the EU. Since we cannot meet this export contingent, it is reduced by 1,000 tonnes, so that our exports of meat and meat processing to the EU vary between 1,700 and 2,200 tonnes annually. Who is responsible for such catastrophic data? The development of a country is measured by the participation of livestock in the gross agricultural product. With us, it is only 42%, which places Serbia in a group of undeveloped countries. The census of the population and agriculture for you is like Pandora's box – when it opens, and it has to open, a lot of things unpleasant for the current government will come out of that box. There are different ways and methods of carrying out the census. In Slovenia, for example, this year will be the first time a census per regulation to be adopted in the EU three years ago. According to that Regulation, the work of the censusing on the ground will not be carried out by the censusors. Instead, the job will be carried out by the bodies of the interior ministry, the state geodetic administration and the state statistical office, without the involvement of external persons, unlike Serbia, where you plan to hire 60,000 censusors. The Slovenian state statistical office announced that it would save at least 10m euros from the state budget through a new register of censuses. Also in the Slovenian state statistical office, they stressed that the registration list will cost Slovenia only a few percent of the cost of costing a classic field census from door to door, which you plan to apply in Serbia. Not to mention, the census registration model has already introduced Holland, Iceland, Finland and Denmark, and they plan to do so in Austria, Norway and Sweden. Couldn't Serbia learn anything from these countries? Are we so rich we don't need savings? I know you will boast, and I think that's your only argument, that the cost of the census in Serbia will be about 3.5 euros per capita. However, if we do a small partnership between the 2002-2011 census, we can see that the 2002 census included, with the same "door to door" model, about 45,000 censusors, controllers, instructors and permanent co-workers of statistical institutions. For the census this year, whether you do it in April or October, you plan to employ as many as 60,000 participants, over 15,000 people in 2002. Is this a pre-election campaign on the cost of Serbian citizens? The 2002 census cost about 18m euros or 2.25 euros per capita, while this year it will cost 3.5 euros per capita, or more than 26m euros. If it is known that Serbia has not extended its territory over the past ten years, i.e. in a period between the two censuses, if it is assumed, suspected, some black analyses, that there are fewer people in Serbia per year for a city the size of Kickinda, then why do you employ 15,000 more and burn down an unnecessary additional 10m euros, which, by the way, you do not have? I further point out that censuses and agriculture are a necessary civilization process, however, you do not use new ways of making a list, you do not even plan it, you do not analyse it, you do not predict any future censuses, you spend too much money on Serbian citizens. By postponing the census for these six months, you are risking to keep us away from the family of European peoples, and therefore, in the voting day, the Prosperity Group, the SNS, Serbia, will vote against these draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51058	Seventeen minutes and forty seconds used since the time of the representatives of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51059	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, today, on the eve of the announced afternoon session, we are launching a topic that is extremely important to me, but cannot be found for her money to end. Does the current government want to hide from the public information that is unfortunately true, but also catastrophic in certain segments, such as agriculture, to remove data from the public as far as any city is emptying out, how many residents in certain areas, to get away from the public what is very important, and that is that we are every day, and this is what the Statistics Institute knows perfectly, beyond the EU? I remember perfectly, in 2001, when we visited Washington, then Prime Minister Djindjic and the team I was in, guarantees were given to Serbia that in 2004 he would be an EU member. We got these guarantees in Brussels, we got from Shreder, we got from many of the then very important political actors in Europe and the world, but with one totally wrong policy, the work that was hidden from the public, the data that was extremely prepared and filed for the public, that everything was going well, that everything was in line with the agreement with the EU, we were getting further away from the European Union every year. The Bureau of Statistics has data on how it's been moving for years. Those parameters we were supposed to fill so much we moved, to our detriment, that the question... I remember the excellent exposé of President Tadic, when he was second elected president of Serbia, he gave a speech and said, and you, gentlemen of the European Serbia, when you were in the formation of the government, you said – 2013 is the year of EU accession. It is now mentioned in 2018, and realistically in 2020. That line moves every day. When we look at data, which is unfortunately hidden in Serbia both from MPs and from this Parliament and from the public, we are each day that takes a step away from the EU. We can become a candidate, fill out a questionnaire, and that's good, to become candidates, but candidates can be 100 years, 50 years. Turkey has been a candidate for 30 years. But when are we going to get in there, into the EU? Now someone doesn't answer to give real lists and real data, which, unfortunately, are true. It's already going public, here we are, listening to the President of the State's exposés who said it was going better. It's a sentence that's always been mentioned, that it's started, that the crisis is over, everything's okay now, a little bit longer, that people don't feel it, but it's there and it's all good. However, when you look at 550 people lost their jobs every day, 400,000 people lost their jobs, that life supplies were collected in the past year by 34%, that oil and oil derivatives from 76 dinars, when I was in the government, had now come to 125 dinars, how to survive? How does Serbia survive? That's why it's necessary to find the money to get this information done. Based on the list and the right facts, which are currently, unfortunately, catastrophic in Serbia, but true, we must create one basis to move forward, so that we can monitor and see if there is a shift towards better. If we don't, stop right now, find the reasons why we don't, and put those causes away, and not like today, to make cosmetic changes in the government, to unite something that's incompatible, to distract the people that something's going on. We simply stay away from the truth, under the mask that it costs a lot, there's no money, etc. Gentlemen, will you have anything in 2012 to enroll in agriculture? I don't think you will. Agriculture is in a catastrophic state, and there's nothing to write about if we wait a little longer. You will now change the Minister of Agriculture and thus give our peasants some hope that something better will happen. You'll bring in the former justice minister, most likely, and that's a hint that it'll be something better. It can't be better, because there's no money. Serbia owed over a billion and 200m euros in the first two months. What are these investments and what are these new jobs done? The ministers are leaving, they're moving away. They're not reporting to anyone. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you're acting very comfortable in this House, hoping to write your resignations and we'll just stop them. And the governor wrote a resignation and we're just gonna stop her, because that's good, the guy wrote his resignation, no arguments, we're just saying. Gentlemen, do you know that someone needs to make an account for the FIATA project, for all the money they've invested there, for all the money they're going to invest there? It's a private company. Who is pushing millions of euros in the register from this troubled Serbia every day? That's why you keep running away from that statistical office. The Bureau of Statistics costs money. It is right to cost, but there must be a cross-section here in Serbia, to say the least. I was recently in a municipality, and I ask, "What is your impact in production, and they say, cattle production?" When we took the data that they had and put on the table, they don't have... They say, the main shepherding, the lamb's flesh, and they don't have for themselves, for Easter, that every tenth house slaughters the lamb. What kind of production is that? Do you realize that the wrong economic policy that has been led in this country for years has destroyed the companies that have meant life for this Serbia, and especially for agriculture? Is it possible for 20 years that one Serbian woman in Valjevo, who was an engine for processing agricultural products and exports to the Russian market, is not working? One Buddha, all those years, who processed everything produced in that area? So many slaughterhouses, so much production capacity, it's all destroyed. It was an art to destroy certain factories. Who gave the money to buy out certain factories and shut down? Do you know that tycoons have appeared who bought factories in Serbia that were best and most profitable? Unmounted equipment and exported from this country. They drove the equipment, for Christ's sakes, to some remont, and they never brought it back. Now we're losing one creme, one chipper, big manufacturers, big exporters, and with suspicious money it's done; the money came in from a neighboring country, showed up as our money. I have repeatedly asked this parliament and the prime minister what about the money "Yugobanka" invested in Zagreb Bank. Of that money, where our Serbian lawyer gave up Serbian rights to a percentage... This is the truth, which has destroyed agriculture. (President: National MP, agenda theme joined in the joint principle and uniform search and provisions of the Rules of Procedure, obliges me to remind you that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda – therefore, the laws on the list of agriculture and decisions. ) The topic is extremely connected, I am talking about the Bureau of Statistics, which has no money to make lists, to present to the public what is involved in Serbia. What does Serbia have at the moment? What has she lost in the last ten years? Where is it? Find out what's lost, what's gone. How many Serbias did the dairy producer have? How many imported high-milk cows? Where are they now? Why aren't they here anymore? Who approved the import of powdered milk? Who destroyed it completely by importing meat... (President: People's Parliament, I now warn you. So, with full understanding of the breadth of the topic, importing milk powder and the provisions of the three laws have nothing to do with it, nor in the most creative intention of interpreting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to talk about the agenda, and it obliges me to remind you of that). Listen, this is the topic I'm talking about, Mrs. Comic. This subject does not suit you, as vice president of the assembly, and you certainly do not like to hear it. You like some other topics to listen to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51060	People's MP, I agree with every subject that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because that same Rules of Procedure obliges me to apply it. So, eleven minutes you've been using since your MP's time. In the ninth minute of those eleven, I had to remind you of the provisions of Article 106. I now warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure, because you are forbidden to judge in such a way, disqualification, whatever any of the other Members of the People thinks or feels, whether he is the chairman, or she, or not. So, about the agenda and please sign up. You've got ten more minutes at your disposal. Please sign in, you have another ten minutes. You are required to listen to the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51061	I can't understand that you, Mrs. Comic, tell one of the MPs that he's not allowed to talk about anything. (President: People's Parliament, I now warn you, the MP would have to know what is forbidden because it is written in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, what is forbidden to each of us, and which we must not scold the People's Assembly. () What is it, what have I done specifically? Can you tell me specifically? (Miroslav Markicevic, from the place: Speak specifically. How can you not be ashamed? You're gonna pay for it all to the last dinar, you son of a bitch. How are you not ashamed to do this?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51062	People's MP, please. National MP Miroslav Markicevic throws, interferes. People's MP, please behave yourself. Threats to the chairman, the terms "babo" and threats to what you will do to the chairman are not allowed, are prohibited from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They say all things about you, and they talk about me if I did not apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which oblige me to take care of the agenda. I asked you for the first time, asked for the second time, so I warned you that you were obliged to talk about the agenda. On the agenda are the draft Law amending the Census, Households and Apartments Act 2011, Proposal for a Law amending the 2011 Agricultural List Act and a Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme for the period 2011 to 2015. You're still at your disposal for ten minutes. You were interrupted in the 12th minute of your speech, after 12 minutes of speaking out of the agenda. Please sign in and use your ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51063	You know how, believe me, I'm sick of talking when I experience what I've always experienced from you. I don't know why you're doing this, and I don't know what this is about. Believe me, we don't have any more...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51064	People's MP, it's about rules that are non-negotiable. It is the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we are obliged to respect both you and I. If you insist that I apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that I most uncomfortable apply, which is the punishment of the Members of Parliament because they believe that they are the right only to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am at your disposal. I don't think either of you and I deserve such experiences, and for the last time, with a warning, I ask you to use your ten minutes to speak of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51065	Listen, I can't tell you anything ugly today. It's March 8th. Secondly, you're a lady and I respect you. Thirdly, it's an honorable fast, pure Sunday, so it's not nice in a clean Sunday fasting that someone speaks ugly words and insults you. But what you're doing to me is really not human anymore and it's not correct. I spoke directly to the Rules of Procedure, I spoke about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51066	People's MP, thank you. You will be able to use the ten minutes available to you after the debate is over, and according to the application for a word and order of MPs. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first thing to be resolved here is whether the census is really delayed by six months or delayed indefinitely? I'm primarily asking this because of what's written in the very reasoning of the law, which says it's very uncertain whether that money in the budget is secure, whether or not the list can be financed at all. In fact, it is clear that the budget of this money has not provided so far. It explains that part of the funds will be provided from EU donations. It is also said in the light of this bill that additional funds need not be allocated to finance the census. Then, as a logical question, if there is no need to allocate additional funds, how will the census be financed within that delayed period of six months? It's unacceptable that the government doesn't know how to finance the list itself. It is unacceptable that these funds are not in the budget. We would understand the fact that there is no money, if that money was used, for example, for growth in economic production, growth in employment, stimulating employment or reducing debt. But in action, we have a completely different and opposite situation than the one I just cited. In fact, only in January and February of this year, the government additionally charged a billion euros. Industrial production today is at a lower level than it was in 1990, and the number of those who have lost their jobs, just for these two and a half years, the duration of the government's mandate, has risen to 400,000. Now one logical question is asked – why is it important to execute the list? Because it will, unfortunately, show us how much we have fallen as a nation from the previous census, how much less we are, what our country's border areas look like, what certain areas look like, primarily in the southeastern and eastern parts of our territory, which are completely demographically beginning to empty, what our village looks like, how many villages are closed because there is no one to attend and how many, in the end, young experts from the country have left because they cannot find employment in their own country. Demographic reconstruction is today the most important task, a task that should be the priority of each government, and of this government. But I have to say that nothing is as important as this subject and that no thing is so important, unless at any foreseeable moment in the future we are no longer or we are enough to exist as a people. What does the state do to prevent those very negative forecasts that in 2052, Serbs in this area will be less by two million or that in 2032, the population of Serbia will be less than three decades before that? She, unfortunately, stops giving birth. Here I will primarily mention that famous regulation under which the families, entrepreneurs, were obliged to return the total amount of earnings, the fees they were entitled to and received while they were on maternity leave, only because at the time they went to maternity leave they did not check out their shop, or they did not check out their company, and according to that regulation, which they were only later familiar with, they had to do. That's how you don't take care of one country's birthright, so you don't encourage birth. I have to say, it's a good thing that the state, this government, has made a birth-enhancing strategy, but it's very bad that this birth-enhancing strategy is absolutely not being applied. This is not a good way and a good indicator of how the state should solve this most important problem today. So, of course, it is no wonder that every year, 30,000 of us are smaller and that only because of that trend since 1992, we have lost 377,000 people to this day. The phenomenon of insufficient birth is today the central problem of Serbia's demographic development and demographic picture of Serbia. The birth rate is 30% below what is needed to bring about a simple renewal of the population at all. A huge problem, of course, is a negative natural growth, which has been present in Serbia since 1992. Frapantic is the fact that a negative natural growth or zero natural growth, of 165 municipalities in Serbia, is present in 158 municipalities! In as many as 42 municipalities, the rate of negative natural growth is so high that demographics warn, if this rate continues and this trend continues, that these municipalities will disappear. These processes of demographic discharge are very visible in the border area of our territory and, of course, in the southeast, or eastern part. On such occasions, under such circumstances, it is unacceptable for the state to remain silent and there is no answer to such negative demographic trends. The state should implement a clear, efficient population policy, which should at least, if nothing at first, stop this negative trend. But if it doesn't, then it should finally take the seriousness of these demographic negative trends and realize that the consequences of these negative demographic movements can be fatal to the entire people. Unlike the government, the Democratic Party of Serbia took very seriously these negative trends and developed a programme of demographic development that envisions a set of both educational and economic measures and which as such constitutes a good starting point for dealing with these, I would say today the most important, problem imposed on the state. If nothing else, I think it is necessary for the start of providing funding for this list to be prepared as soon as possible to take on a proactive role, I appeal to all, in order for all of us to be able to change this bad demographic image of Serbia together. Of course, today is on the agenda to amend the Agricultural List Act. I'll say a few words about it too. I welcome the idea of listing agriculture, given the fact that it hasn't been listed since 1960. I just don't get it, and I'm looking for an answer to that question, so why aren't the lists of agriculture and the census being conducted at the same time? I point out this primarily because I believe that a certain, if not significant, funding would be saved in this way, and on the other hand, we would be able to get the results of that list of farms at some point in time, rather than waiting for 2014 to show us how much land there is in Serbia, that is, how many agricultural holdings. This is how the census is delayed for a year, not six months, like with the census. I really don't see a reason. Or, if I understand enough about this subject, I think that in the very explanation, at least to say why these two lists couldn't go at the same time. For one agrarian state, as Serbia should represent, it is very important to know how many agricultural holdings there are, what its land fund is, how many hectares of farmland there are, so that based on all these relevant data, it can plan what its agricultural production will look like and how it will develop. The Serbian village today best shows the state of agriculture. Serbian villages are dying today, disappearing, the village's population migrating towards larger urban areas. Serbia today, as one said today, has 4,800 villages, and the forecasts say that in a decade and a half, if this trend continues, 25% of villages will be less, or 1,200 villages, due to the simple fact that in these villages today the average is 60 years old. Today we already have 200 villages where there are no inhabitants under the age of 20 and 190 villages, if they can be called at all, in which we have not a single resident. Given the fact that we are talking again about Serbia should be an agrarian state, agriculture should be Serbia's export and development chances, but in this situation, if nothing, we should at least define the agricultural policy itself. If agriculture, as many say, is the strategic branch of the economy today, then it would not be possible for the agrarian budget to be allocated only 2.5% of the total republican budget today. The result of this fact, as well as the fact that the state does not care about agriculture, is a shortage of milk, oil, sugar, the destruction of the stock fund, uncontrollable price developments and the rapid collection of basic food products in Serbia, which are such a basic generator of inflation itself. In the last year alone, the stock fund was reduced by 110,000 head of cattle. In the last two decades, the total rate of reduction of the livestock stock has ranged between 3% and 4%, and meat production has dropped from 600,000 tonnes to 457,000 tonnes. How bad the situation in livestock is is the best indication that out of the nine thousand tonnes of June the amount of the export quota, which the European Union has approved Serbia, we have failed to export even one fifth. If I'm not mistaken, 1,600 tons of junetine, we've managed to take it out. I'm saying this because Serbia has no strategy when it comes to agriculture. We don't even have land policy, which is the basis of agrarian reform itself. Production in today's agricultural land is exclusively intended for personal consumption and not for the market. I am saying this because 600,000 hectares of unprocessed land remains in Serbia every year and that Serbia has recently imported what it could not have imagined could be imported. I am talking about that only in 2009 or early 2010, agricultural products were imported for a billion and 300 million euros, and that they had preceded onions, potatoes and apples. To make things even sadder, we've imported 400 tons of raspberries! Malin, which represents Serbia's export brand itself, an export card. In addition to Serbia still achieving a surplus in food exports, the FAO warns us that we will become addicted if we continue with this practice of food imports. Today we have a situation like this because the state doesn't care about agriculture, agricultural production, which is a great shame. The state of Serbia, unlike EU countries, is in one privileged position. I must say, for those who do not know, Serbia is the only country in Europe that has 0.6 hectares of farmland per capita. If we use only that advantage in a way that is productive and profitable, Serbia could today be a agricultural power. Unfortunately, it's not like that. I'll leave another five minutes to go, so I'm going to finish here, but please answer my question from the beginning: why couldn't these two lists have been implemented at the same time, which is why the list of farms is delayed for a year, if it's in our interest to know what the structure of national agriculture is so that we can plan our own agricultural production on that basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51068	Fifteen minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the next part of the session, where the right to speak is given by MPs who have submitted their applications, and this right to the word will be given by order of the MPs. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SRS, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the DSS, the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia and the ZES Group. The first registered speaker on the list is Ambassador Nikola Žutic, followed by Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51069	Fellow Members, Madam Minister, the basic ethnological categories in the census are nation, language and religion. In my opinion, however, the state of Serbia does not take good care of these ethnological signs. Thus, the statistical threat to Serbia in today's conditions, projected by this, in its majority part, is an analytical coalition. For all of this, I wonder to what extent will real statistics be, i.e. categories of national, religious and language in Serbia? Where is the historic Serbian foundation today? From 1945 to today, new nations have been produced: Montenegrin, Macedonian and Muslim-Bosnian. New languages have been promoted, kidnapped from Serbian: Croatian, Bosniak, and finally Montenegrin. New faiths are being created: the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, possibly the Vojvodina Protestant church, so eventually we hear that the Croatian Orthodox Church is being formed. This government, as well as the previous one, did not try to protect the Serbian language to a sufficient extent. It is clear that the Republic of Serbia does not care about protecting the Serbian language. The Assembly recently ratified the Convention on the Protection of Cultural and Intangible Goods, in which language belongs first. Therefore, the passivity and courtship of Serbian authorities to the surrounding newly created states is seen in many state and civilization segments, especially through passive and irresponsible behaviour towards Serbian, which remained stateless against inappropriate abduction from the governments of the surrounding states. It should be pointed out that the Serbian government simply does not respect the bindingly mentioned Convention on the Protection of Intangible and Cultural Goods. A few months ago, I myself spoke in the National Assembly about the Bill on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Goods, i.e. the Protection of Language and Letters. There is an international convention that protects language as a basic ethnic sign of one nation and whose primary task is to prevent the acquisition of foreign languages from new political-national groups. Language statistics in the future list will be simply catastrophic. According to numerous examples of practice, the state does not protect its national and official language at all, since it is now freely referred to in Serbia itself as Croatian, Bosniak and Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51070	People's MP, I ask you to respect the obligation of article 106 and speak of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51071	I'm talking about language as a basic statistical indicator. If the Serbian language is not treated enough in statistical data, it is normal that the statistics will have no purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51072	People's MP, the texts of the law have nothing to do with the creativity of your approach, please, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51073	The census in ethnic terms is conducted according to language, religion and nation, so it contains, and it is one of the very important issues in the list. I don't see what the problem is, do I need to be strict on some canons to talk about?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51074	People's MP, I warn you, and I ask you not to distort the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do not speak to any canons, you are speaking according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to respect the content of the draft laws or decisions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51075	That's exactly what I'm going to tell you through the next text, how the list was made from 1850 to today. To continue, Serbs of Islamic faith, since I am still talking about the nation and language...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51076	People's Messenger, I now warn you twice – therefore, on the subject of the agenda. Regardless of your right to ignore the subject of the agenda, it is my duty to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51077	Okay, we have to respect, there's no protection with my Lichan, right? Let's cut the story short, to conclude that the Serbian people's base is constantly shrinking. Broz's communists contributed greatly to that in 1945. It should be recalled that communists banned the use of the Bunjeva name in 1945, and it is prescribed that the Bunjevi have been called Croats, although the Bunjevs are an old ethnocategory, since there once was also a rebel-shocking party. Let's move on. In 1946, the communist authorities pressured the Gorans, satiated their nationalities, and their old Serb origins. The Gorans, however...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51078	National MP, 2011 is the Law on the List of Populations and Agriculture in 2011. Please mention the subject of the agenda in the context of your discussion at least one sentence, really please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51079	I'm starting with the subject. This is one parallel analysis of statistical data through history and what key categories have been important in all lists so far. Now, if we're going to strip this list so naked that we can't discuss the subject, well, I'll try to continue. MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must take care of the implementation of the list of the endangered Serb population at the premises of the former Serb countries, especially in the areas of Macedonia, where the Serb people are permanently assimilated and reduced, and at the premises of Serbia's Montenegro, where elementary Serbian national rights are threatened, through the abolition of the language and the Serbian Orthodox Church...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51080	National MP, the National Assembly is not responsible for the census on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51081	Okay, we're one region, and at the same time, population lists are being held in all former Serbian countries, in the former Yugoslavia...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51082	I know, MP, that they are being conducted at the same time, but we are simply not competent to decide how the 2011 census will be conducted in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51083	Well, we in the SRS just have a large number of voters in those countries who have escaped here...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51084	I don't doubt that at all, but I'm asking you to help me apply the Rules of Procedure together. So, about the subject of our work. I'm really asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51085	Shouldn't the state of Serbia take care of its citizens who once lived in other places and forced into these narrow spaces of Serbia? I would like to commend Minister Sretkovic's statement, which advocated the restoration of the abolished constitutionality of the Serbian people in the Republic of Croatia. However, his decision did not come to a good echo in the rest of the government and other ministries. After all, I have to talk about the Krajina Serbs, because they were once in the position of the constituent people, in which they were through history and were able to plead more freely national and religiously during the census in Croatia. At times, our statisticians, demographics, geographers often made very imprecise use of the arguments of history, which causes conflicting effects on the Serbs. When spoken throughout history and written about the number of Serbs, flat-rate statistical assessments are given about the lower representation of Serbs in general, especially the western Serbs, than they used to be. For example, some of our prominent historians and demographics indicate that at the end of the 19th century there were about 30% of Serbs on the premises of today's Croatia. I don't know what kind of assessment is given to such data when it is known that the censuses were based on language and religious basis. Let me remind you, in the late 19th century lists, it's been operating with the national category of Serbo-Croatian, via a language base. For Orthodox people, it was easy to calculate the number, as Orthodox people in 95% of the cases were Serbs. The problem is with the category of Roman Catholics who are often identified with Croats, while on the other hand forgets that at the end of the 19th century many Serbian Roman Catholics still existed, then Austrian Germans Roman Catholics, Italians, Slovaks and others. Therefore, it cannot be claimed that in the late 19th century only 30% of Serbs in today's Croatia, since in the mid-19th century Serbs, according to the 1846 and 1850 censuses, accounted for a large majority of the population in Dalmatia, Istria, Slavonia, Krajina. In Dalmatia, Istria, Slavonia at the time the Croats were not even mentioned as a special statistical category. Just to compare the situation at the time: The Serbs were 1,600,000 at the time, while the Roman Catholics, who began to bear the Croatian name, were only around 1,200,000. For me, it is a frantic information about the explosive expansion of Croatia in 50 years, thanks to the Habsburg and Vatican support, state and religion. Serbian Roman Catholics quickly rejected their Serbian name. In the era of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Serbian consciousness, through Yugoslavism, was further eroded. So, over the past 150 years, great Croatianism has occupied Serbian historical countries, and even the Slovenian country, Caiauan Croatia. Such Croatianism was created without any Croatian ethnic background, as a supremacy of the people's mix. To remind, in 1850, there were about 1,600,000 Serbs in Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia, while there were only about 200 Serbs in the 2001 census. So, after a lot of checks, etocide, culture, he stayed with himself today, so-called. Croatian people, composed of these nationalities and components. Not long ago, Zarko Puhovski himself spoke of ethnic cleansing, a lateral case, when the Serbian landscape space was cleared in five years. So, after all, in such a state of national freedom, does any census make sense, where is this real historical state? The question arises whether obstructions, census abstinences should be considered, which would not make such lists valid, or legitimate in international contexts. In this position of ethnic cleansing, the historic constitutional Serb peoples, such a census must be reduced to a mere census of the population, without an ethnic mark. Unfortunately, you did not allow me to make key arguments in my presentation, historical retrospective and analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51086	Ten minutes were used from the time of the parliamentary group, two minutes and forty-five seconds I used myself, calling for respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word. He's not here. The People's Messenger Milorad Krstin, followed by the People's Messenger Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are in front of us in a joint review of three draft laws: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011, Proposal for a Law amending the Agricultural List Act in 2011 and Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme from 2011 to 2015. In this material, when we look at the explanation why these three proposals are found in one principle search, which are the reasons, and also to move these dates, i.e. A year from 2011 to 2012, when it comes to amending the Agricultural List Act, the reasons for the law being passed, as you have written here, are clear and recognizable, and says, "The Republic of Serbia must adapt to a series of EU rules and standards on the way to EU accession." In the objectives of the agricultural list, you listed five points. The first point is to obtain a comprehensive review of the structural characteristics of national agriculture; to produce a database, internationally comparable, based on key agricultural features; thirdly, to form a statistical register of agricultural land, which will provide a framework for agricultural research on the model and research on the structure of agricultural holdings; fourthly, to provide the statistical data necessary for the development of a sustainable national agricultural policy. Sustainable. I repeat, sustainable. Fifth, providing data to monitor the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals targets. Millennium Development Goals! Believe me, I could accept some things, and maybe support them, not just me, but also a parliamentary group, but when I see these three supplements, then it's a little hard for me; the SRS certainly won't support it. We know that in the 2002 census, only the central part of Serbia with the northern part was listed, i.e. The Vojvodina included 45,000 people, those who were members of the commission, etc., and then 18,000,000 euros were spent. This year, in 2011, 60,000 people will participate and will be spent 28,000,000 euros, that is 10 million more. At that time, in 2002, 2.25 euros were spent per capita, and 3.5 euros will be spent in 2011. Now that Serbia has been hit by a severe economic crisis, not in 2011, but it has started much earlier, since 2001, you want in this year, or the prolonged year, to take again from Serbian citizens some, as said here, 28 million, and it has never ended on that figure, there will be over 30m euros. You say coordination of activities between the census and the agricultural list should contribute to financial savings. Let me agree with that. You say that the list of farms is implemented after the census, so that the authorities responsible for the organisation and implementation of the census are used for its implementation. But there's something about a list of farms that's very interesting and that can't be skipped. Article 5 of the List states: “The list collects data on the structure of agricultural land: location, land and category of land use of agricultural land, areas under crops, orchard areas and number of trees, vineyard area and number of vines, irrigation, use of organic and mineral fertilisers, as well as plant protection, number of livestock by species and categories, number of livestock, number of other animals, hives of bees, data on agricultural machinery,” I repeat, agricultural machinery, “and facilities, labour force, sale of agricultural products, organic agricultural production, additional work, as well as data on ponds and areas under forests. “ Then in article 6, you say, “The methods of carrying out the list. Thus, Article 6 states: “Data on family agricultural holdings are collected by an interview method, ” I repeat, interviews, “from the person holding the family agricultural land or from a full-time member of the family agricultural land whose data are best known, with an insight into the relevant documentation. “ Do you know, gentlemen of the government, that the return of state agricultural land has not yet been made to those who were damaged since 1946, that the commissions have not finished their work throughout Serbia? Do you know that there have been memberships and they are not finished in all of Serbia? No cadastre was made. How can this host say that there are so many surfaces, under crops or not, what is the situation now, in Vojvodina are under the waters of the orange surface, thousands and thousands of hectares, if you put here in Article 22 of the Penal Code? In Article 22, you say – a fine of 100,000 to million dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person (a company, etc.) which primarily carries out the activity of agricultural production if it leaves out accurate data. You can't punish someone without previously doing what a legal state needs to do, which is that registered agricultural holdings have an accurate insight into their processing surface, that man knows exactly how many calves, how many heroes, how many cows, how many animals, geese, roosters. Tell me, what are you going to do with those who have jokes? How will you lead them? Every salad around it has a working surface and a large number of cattle, starting with sheep, calves, heroes, as the salachar says, or a Serbian pair, bulls, and then there are cows, turkeys, geese, ducks, animals, etc. Tell me, how will you get the exact information? Do you want to take special vehicles to those salads that don't have electricity? Our salasses in Vojvodina have no electricity, basically what they're supposed to have. They spent a huge part of their lifetime on this agriculture, normal, feeding and citizens of Serbia, and also their family and training their children. I wonder how you'll manage to execute that list of farms, specifically when it comes to these salsashas. Secondly, I couldn't get over the situation in agriculture that easily. We can't easily cross, because they don't allow these proposals of yours to amend and supplement the List of Populations, Households and Apartments Act, and then the 2011 Agricultural List Act. You moved them all, though. You moved everything here, starting with Article 1, of Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and changing "until 15 November 2011" and replacing it with "until 15 December 2012, and these are amendments and additions to the law. You should've just said, in a difficult economic situation, when only that Serbian steam can carry on its back, it bends, it can't anymore, but it carries what's going on, it's still a difficult economic situation... But he's not being helped, he's running out of strength. It is at a loss of strength because in these villages they are mostly hosts in recent years, few young people remain. Something started now with these subsidies, loans, etc., to hold back a little bit, but you've moved faster and better away now and the minister, you don't think agriculture matters to this government. Well, it's the only branch that brings surplus to this government and this budget. I believe she's already reached a billion and a half dollars. I don't believe it, I'm sure. What are you doing? You want to bring that farm to the lowest branch and have the farmer start begging. It's a disaster for this country. You have to pay attention. Who's holding our farm here? Looks like the minister, tycoons, cartels. Now the people are being sneezed because the flour is 50, 60, 70 dinars, and that same peasant is being paid for the wheat of 13 dinars! I'm responsible for that, because I'm working the country along with my son, or one of my friends is helping me. Well, it wasn't wheat that was raised by an individual agricultural producer or a Serbian steamer to 30 dinars on the Novosad Stock Exchange, it was that those who owned the warehouses and mills raised them. It's you, mostly tycoons. It's not for the price of corn, it's not for the agricultural producer. He took his market surplus and then put it into a silo and got about 12, 13, 14 dinars, and now it's sold for over 20 dinars. It's sold by the one who's been laggged into property and who owns it now. It's the agricultural producer who's losing again. Don't blame the farmer for the price, I don't know, the eggs so much because the oil is 163 dinars, the diamond. Ask Todorovic, the owner. Ask this guy in Vrbas, you know who he owns. Ask why the oil prices are so high. Don't say now that the price of sunflowers has affected the price of oil so much. No way, it didn't affect. You can see it's a 15 percent buy-out. What was the price of the kilo? Now we have 110 dinar sugar, and now you've released from the stock reserves, so it's going to be 98 dinars. Don't pick up the peasant. Not according to the Serbian papora. Not according to the one who's loading the hero, cows. Don't muddle what makes up raspberries, blackberries, plums. The one who makes milk, the poor guy, has now come to him for 31 gallons of milk. I couldn't believe with my own eyes that you had a milk store of 0.9% fat sold at 45 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51088	I ask you, on the subject of the agenda, to return to the subject of the agenda. Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51089	I just want to point to problems with my discussion on the list of agriculture; firstly, how you're going to execute it and the accuracy of the data from people when they're not arranged, Madam Chairman... First, the cadastre is not done, the composition is not completed, the land return is not completed. Normally, I also point to agricultural problems. I asked you how you're gonna make a list of salsa, you know how many salsa there are. They resuscitate slowly, without power, without anything, without a basic approach to the salash. He can't go on foot or on a bike when it rains, only a tractor can walk. You rarely see that someone has a used “lado ” or a used jeep, to go to their salash. I just want to show you that it's not the Serbian pair's fault for these prices now by the shelves, by the Maxie Markets, by the excuse, by the markets, not to advertise anyone. It's not his fault. I'm telling you exactly who's to blame. We had our last list of farms in 1960. And now, after so many years, after 50 years, when we talk, you, as a folk MP representing the Serbian pair, are challenging me to say at least the prices of certain final products that cause confusion among Serbian citizens. Nothing more. I didn't even say it was this government. I said, they're guilty, I repeat, tycoons. I didn't say government, I didn't say Minister, I didn't say Ministry, I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51090	People's MP, for the second time, please, on the subject of the agenda. With all the creativity that Parliament's discussion means, over the last three minutes you've completely left the agenda theme, so I'd like to ask you to remember article 106. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51091	Every discussion I have will always return to the state of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51092	Then my every objection and my obligation to address you will be the same – the topic of the agenda. You've spent 13 minutes of the MP's time for now. I'm asking you to sign up so that you can continue and take advantage of the time available to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51093	Madam Chairman, I do not want to go into conflict with you, but my discussion is focused on amendments and additions to the 2011 Agricultural List Act, as well as the list of population, households and dwellings in 2011. Nothing more, I'm not going wider. If I'm wider, I'm going to use some other time, when it's something else, I'm guessing the cooperative law, etc.; then I will use my time to talk about the difficult situation in agriculture. I'll end up, two more minutes, I won't really use it anymore, but let me tell you, a farmer can't buy for money artificial fertilizer anymore, he can't buy seeds, any more, whether it's sunflower seeds, corn, barley, soy, etc., can't buy chemistry (when I say chemistry, I mean what destroys grass in a processed area), but he takes it based on the contract, and based on that contract he's in charge of certain, in abnormal parities. Here, I'll finish now. Will you just let me finish? I'll be done in half a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51094	You end up the moment you start breaking the rules of the Rules of Procedure over every kind of my ability to take care of the order. I ask you not to abuse the right that implies the time of the parliamentary group, the time of the president or the authorised representative. Otherwise we could talk about anything, no matter what's on the agenda. Restrictions exist precisely to discuss the subject of the agenda, with as much creativity as any MP gives himself. I listen very carefully to you. I know exactly what it says in each member of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments 2011, amending the Law on the List of Agriculturals and Decisions. When I ask you, both you and any other MP, to allow me to take care of the order, then I ask you to remember that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure apply to me as much as to you and that you cannot keep everything about everything. That's why there's a agenda. You spent 13 minutes. Please, if you'd like to take advantage of the time of your parliamentary group. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51095	Madam Chairman, I only asked you to allow me two minutes to 15 minutes, so I can finish. Here, now I'll use, let me say, half a minute to say and also ask, since you've made changes at the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51096	Thank you, People's Messenger. The used time of the parliamentary group is 13 minutes. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. After that, MP Marko Milenkovic. I ask you to help me conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and without sentence. MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51097	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing three acts and we have a joint single search. Two acts are the draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law, namely the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011 and the 2011 Agricultural List Act, and the Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme for the period 2011 to 2015, and it is the obligation of the National Assembly to adopt such an act. Madam Minister, it is not usual for a representative of the Government not to make several preliminary remarks regarding the laws here on behalf of the Government. You saw what it looked like yesterday, about the Sports Act. It's not common. It happens. You're not the first. I hope that in some future period you will talk a little bit to the gentlemen of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, who, I suppose and speak on the basis of some knowledge, are going to give a maximum of themselves to make a list, first of all, of the population and then of agriculture, in two laws whose amendments and additions are on the agenda, within the original deadlines. Since they failed, we cannot expect you here, as the minister representing this law on behalf of the government, nor Mr. Vukmirovic and Mr. Jancic, to engage in the debate and give us an answer to some questions. I will try here individually on each proposal, and then, to make some sense, a joint debate, because of efficiency, because of the desire of the SRS to support the census and the list of agriculture, but also to point to those facts that the Government and, of course, the Republic Statistics Bureau should have in mind that they could finish that part of the job. It would be said that these two amendments to the law on amendments and additions are purely technical changes, about moving deadlines. If you've carefully read the bill's proposals, then you'll see that there are some things left that are not true anymore. The Census List Act is absolutely irrelevant in Articles 18 or 17, said there would be an inflow of funds according to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and is mentioned in 2010 with some more significant resources due to the preparation of the 2011 census, from April 1st to 15th. Since you yourself said at the meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, Mr Vukmirovic, that until that day, which was on November 8, 2010, no single dinar was paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget at the expense of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, then that member had to be changed if you wanted to show that you were seriously dealing with this problem, not simply proposing a change in the date of the census. Furthermore, there were obligations... The main entity for the implementation of this very significant activity is the Republic Bureau of Statistics, but certain responsibilities under this law have been transferred to another special organisation, the Republic Catastre. Are you on the deadlines that were scheduled to do that part of the job? Is the Ministry of Interior, which is also one of the entities and has an obligation to participate in certain actions in the 2011 census, and is due to share from December to January certain forms of our citizens living abroad, i.e. who were temporarily staying abroad, that part of the job ended? Is the Department of Defense, did the Department of Justice commit its activities in order for this job to be completed in a timely manner? I don't think anybody's done anything. But that's not the biggest problem, I don't think the Republic Statistics Institute has affected when the census will be carried out, but certain parties in power have estimated that because of the conduct of the elections, given that over 50,000 censusors will be hired, that activity should be planned somewhere right before the elections, in order to hire people who will help the election campaign tomorrow, whether regular or extraordinary, doesn't matter at all. We can say that the Republic Statistics Institute could be involved objectively in the appointment of these committees, but we suspect that local self-governments will use their local officials, instructors and similar use of their local officials, or some members of the party to be reprieved, because this fee for carrying out these obligations is not small at all. We have experience that in local self-government as a maintenance worker in the institution of culture, in the library, an engaged man from a political party that is in power, and also perpetrators of a lower rank are engaged exclusively from political parties that are in power. This will result in around 50,000 hired censuses being members of the parties currently in power. Try, we have a partial trust in the Republic Bureau of Statistics, try to solve it that way. When it comes to the list of agriculture, we have argued earlier and now responsiblely, I would say very objectively, that it would be far cheaper for this country if the census of the population, households and dwellings and the list of agriculture were organised at the same time. Even Mr. Jancic said that the agricultural census was good in the autumn period because of the large involvement of the agricultural population during the sowing. We're joining that. If so, and you moved the census for the period from October 1st to October 15th, let's also keep the agricultural list in the same period. It's kind of unsettling, it's kind of a story for little kids that when we list agriculture, we're going to use the same resources that we used in the census, and it's going to be consistent, that it's going to be cheaper. How can it be cheaper? It will be the same "lad levels" that will go to remote villages when the list of farms is carried out. Is that something that's going to lead to cheaping? No, I don't. You said that censusing training takes three days, and the list of farms will last six days. I made a joke when I asked if those six days would be deployed to, say, two semesters. That's no reason to delay a year's list of farms because it'll be simpler and more efficient. After all, based on the experience of 1991, when a census was made and something for the needs of agriculture, you had to see what the shortcomings were. So it wasn't a classic agricultural list, it was just some auxiliary forms that were used to obtain certain data related to agriculture. All that was then flawed should now be taken into account and used as an advantage, i.e. to agree and simultaneously make that list. You will see that you will experience certain problems, because it will last one year from the census to the list of farms and then the actual state of affairs will have certain changes, the actual state of affairs due to the termination of existence, death or in some other way, a listed person who already provides answers to certain questions related to agriculture in this eight-page list. This will serve you as an auxiliary material for the list of farms, and it could have been listed agriculture and finished. Secondly, you will find that some of the owners of agricultural land or other agricultural goods that will be included in the list at the time of the list of agriculture will not be in places where their agricultural goods or other things are listed, related to agriculture, but will be in some other places, where they otherwise live permanently, and occasionally go to process their agricultural land (if they have inherited or bought it, it does not matter). In order to avoid all these objective problems, a census of the population and agriculture should be conducted at the same time. I'd like to ask you another question. If the European Union... On the other hand, she promised that pre-accession funds with tenm euros would help carry out the census. Who asked for it, on whose request is it? Now it doesn't matter whose request he's on, why didn't he show up early so the census wouldn't be delayed? Why were these funds not provided earlier so that we could have it within the deadlines for that part? Next, Mrs. Comic, I have to say next. It is not within the Assembly's jurisdiction to conduct a census in other countries where it is not majorityal, but a significant percentage of the Serb population exists. Provisions of Article 13 The constitution says, "The Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin." This unequivocally and completely clears that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as someone who runs politics, is obliged to take care of the interests of its citizens, wherever they live. We will have objective problems in the BiH census (for now uncertainly, I suppose it will be organised), we will also have problems in Croatia, and we will already have very serious problems in Montenegro, because the list will be implemented from April 1st to 15th. According to the Constitution of Montenegro, Cyrillic and Latin are completely two equal letters. Lists in Montenegro were not made on Cyrillic, only made on Latin. He intervened with the Serbian National Council, but not the daily list, not even the Serbian television, which exists in Podgorica, the newspaper, cannot place a campaign related to the implementation of the census. I think this debate in the Assembly, about the census, has meaning, as well as calls and prepares our population to respond to this list. Imagine, we are now talking about the list of agriculture, and it will be held in 2012, so we will have to further employ some funds and probably some propaganda, advertising material that will contribute to making that part a better and better way. When we talk about agriculture, I'm not sure, one of our colleagues spoke, the migrations of the non-agricultural population are more significant and intense than the migration of the agricultural population, but a large number of the agricultural population will not be in a position to participate in the implementation of the list. We know the locals would be best to run the list, but we have a large number of villages where there aren't even any... The question is if there's a village, what in the geographical sense exists, but if there's no population, then it doesn't exist at all. You yourself once admitted that the Republic Statistics Institute has about a thousand evaluators and that they often provide better data than some state institutions dealing with certain statistical categories, but their average life span is between 60 and 80 years old, and we agreed that a good censuser is someone who is 50 years old. So we're only talking about categories and we're talking about this professionally. There is no reason not to accept the argument of the SRS and not to come up with a common list of both agriculture and the population at the same time. You've now extended the time period for the agricultural census, so instead of 15 days, it's now two and a half months. I don't know that you didn't follow Belgium's example, but it seems to me that Belgium's agricultural census has been going on for eight months? There's no need. We should respect, accept world standards, not only in statistics, but in everything that represents activity, economy or any other, but we must always keep in mind our platform, our base, how and how it will reflect on our citizens. You are delaying the list of farms not to reach some indicators that you will get after a census, but you are counting, given that the surplus in agricultural production was in this year, that it will appear regularly and in the coming years; behold, you will have two, a year and a half more, up to the list of farms, in order to change something more drastic in favour of farmers. The analyses that we get after the list in agriculture will be catastrophic and will not be possible before them, in particular, will not be allowed to close their eyes, but will have to be used in the development of agricultural production. Here, I'll only list two indicators. The question is rightly asked, when this analysis is made, how long will our agricultural producers deal with agricultural production? The cost of producing wheat, according to some indicators, was 50,000 per hectare, and the income from the sold wheat from that hectare at the average yield was 48,000; therefore, the agricultural producer for the production of wheat with a loss of two thousand dinars per hectare. It's a similar situation with the production of the tollboys, where after a hundred kilos of cash he loses 3,500 dinars. Do you expect someone to be involved in agricultural production even after such catastrophic conditions and indicators? The government must never say that agriculture had surpluses on imports. That's a fact, it's true, but she can't take the right to do anything. It is primarily thanks to our valuable agricultural producers and the desire to help this country get out of the crisis, with such an incompetent government. But it will not be able to solve the problem until the end, but the state must also take active participation and help farmers and all those who want to make a serious contribution, to hire themselves and members of their family household first, to give others a chance. This government certainly isn't in a situation. It is interesting to compare, for example, that the health minister for ten years was one man, and the minister of agriculture...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51098	National MP, if you can connect the Minister of Health to the census and agriculture, I will withdraw my request to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51099	You could have noticed in my 17-minute statement that I had no problem connecting, because, indeed, this is something that the Serbian Radical Party prepared itself with all the arguments. You didn't see Mr. Vukmirovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51100	People's MP, you've been talking outside the agenda for the last five minutes. I am patiently listening and waiting for you to bring the last five minutes into contact with the topic of the agenda, and I am asking you at the moment when you are talking about the health ministers, whoever it was, to bring that part of your discussion into contact with the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51101	Of course, I agree with you that it has no direct connection, but in some indirect way, my wish was just to connect it in an indirect way. We've had a lot of changes in the Department of Agriculture for the past ten years, I don't think that's a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51102	People's MP, you're still not talking about the subject of the agenda. Either connect the Ministry of Agriculture, any shortcomings or good news you have with the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51103	I have to be honest, my intention is not to help Prime Minister Cvetkovic build a good cabinet. My intention is to make it worse...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51104	People's MP, I'm not talking about your intentions, I'm talking about your obligation to talk about the subject of the agenda. All the intentions you have, the intention of using the allowed... But you have a duty on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51105	Except, most skillfully, and I'm only talking about the subject of the agenda, everything else is just a need to support it with illustrations. Finally, regarding the proposal for a decision on the official statistics programme between 2011 and 2015. I had to extract one piece here, he says, "The vision of official statistics. The official statistics system of the Republic of Serbia should play a role as regional leader... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I'm speaking to you, gentlemen of the Republic Statistics Service. They killed us with other statements, that Serbia is a regional leader in other spheres. Don't put it in the statistics. We believe, as Professor Shami once said, we believe in statistics. Don't make us don't trust people who do statistics. However, we assume that there are the largest number of professionals there and that's all they do. If you agree with what the Serbian Radical Party has suggested, that the census be at the same time, in the same period of time, from October 1st to October 15th, you and we from the SRS have done one good thing for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51106	Seventeen minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. It is different from the time on the monitor because of the necessity of reminding the MP on the obligation to speak about the agenda. The People's Messenger Marko Milenkovic has a word, followed by the People's Messenger Paja Momcilov, and then by the People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic. MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, we have opportunities to see you today in the Assembly, not a theme sport, but you're changing your colleagues. What's a little worried about the Serbian Radical Party is that there is no Mr Dragin. He probably decided not to participate in the work of this government anymore, as his shift is expected this afternoon, as the general public is already informed. When laws are passed today, the Serbian Radical Party warned there would be changes and additions, as it was a very short period of time to do all this. Normally, we were right, and today we have amendments to the Census, Households and Apartments Act for 2011 and these two agenda points: the list of agriculture and the official statistics programme from 2011 to 2015. The Serbian Radical Party doesn't really care about your cosmetic changes, this cheap flea make-up that's going to happen today, when we're going to get new ministers. What's certainly problematic, it's a condition in our agrarian. We have no problem saying everything that this government has done well in the previous period since the establishment of 2008, but we are certainly here to criticise certain things. As we said, we felt that the budget for our agrarian should be far greater. Thus, in this list of farms that are expected to be far more than that, to say the least; it would likely have a large number of our farmers to fill out these forms, to respond to such a call. We suspect you'll be in a very difficult situation. First of all, you disappoint young people by delaying the census, and the population and agriculture, because throughout Serbia, young people have been asking questions about when to start the list, to earn some money, whether they can contact someone, the competent ministries, to provide themselves with an additional injection and to improve their budget. We think you'll have a lot of problems, when the census and households and agriculture is a big problem. Also, one question for you, if you can answer – how do you plan to execute a census in Kosovo and Metohija? And if the list is completed within the time limit provided for by these amendments and amendments to the Law, will it be a list that will have relevant facts and a real situation in the Republic of Serbia? The Serbian Radical Party believes it will not, because we are sure that a large number of households, apartments and populations, especially the farm country in Kosovo and Metohija, our forests, will not enter this register. Or you'll just fictitiously do it in order to try again to say that Kosovo and Metohija are not lost and that you will use all diplomatic means to make Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia, and in fact, the real truth is that you have long given up our southern province. The reasons for the adoption of the law states that "at the time of EU accession, the Republic of Serbia must adapt to a series of rules and standards prescribed by the EU, which will greatly change the situation in our agriculture. A set of laws, rules and procedures relating to agriculture and to be adopted includes legal standards, common agricultural policy and structural funds. In order to monitor the adjustment process and assess the degree of consistency, it is necessary to introduce a number of statistical indicators in agriculture statistics. "The Serbian Radical Party believes that behind this argument or reason for passing the law there is something completely different. We think that the EU wants first of all to have an accurate insight into the situation in our agriculture, how much we have to deal with, how many forests we have, and especially how much capacity we have, for example, in organic production. I purposely say organic production, because small agricultural holdings now as the only perspective have the ability to opt for organic production, to move from conventional production to organic, because it's their only source of income, and that's the only way they can make a decent profit. It is that it needs more investment, is that it needs the help of the state. We have to say that in that part, the Ministry of Agriculture came to them in some way to meet and that through subsidies certain means are obtained to raise plastics and irrigation systems etc. What we are afraid of is that the EU will come to know how much Serbia actually has a processing surface. For what? Because we are here preparing for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass a law on the cultivation of GMOs. Your colleague Dragin said that Serbia would not agree to this. I can state my personal position, as well as the position of most farmers and us MPs of the SRS – that this may be one of the reasons why Mr Cvetkovic decided to replace Minister Dragina, because he was explicit that the law would not come into the process. We'll have a chance to see if that happens soon. The WTO, which made it clear that it has major objections because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on the ban on cultivation of GMOs. I must remind you that many countries in the EU have banned GMOs, primarily Germany, the Netherlands, but that other countries have agreed to do so, primarily because of the blackmail of the United States and a large company called Monsanto, which wants to flood the entire market. The fact is that our country is the most fertile and I don't think I'm being modest when I say not only here in the Balkans, it's possible throughout Europe. In addition, the fact that in 2004, the representatives of the Netherlands were here, in Vojvodina, in Vienna, offering to buy 200 hectares of land and to just take off 20 cm of humus and take off. Fortunately, that didn't happen, although I think – and if our country did, our country was so fertile that we would continue to grow, especially if we were engaged in that part of primary agricultural production. We suspect that you will be able to make a correct list of agricultural land and land. I'll give you just a few examples where the migration of the population is very large; there are lots of places, say, in Jablanic and Pcinj County, where tens and tens of thousands of cattle, and cows and sheep, are simply sold out; people have moved away, they've gone after bread, the cattle fund has practically been destroyed. I have to say that in the Pcinj County, where the Shop, Vladic's Han, Bosilegrad, is not only without a cattle fund, but is slowly moving the population. What is especially for the district, it is that Surdulica is the district headquarters, and last year, according to official data, which was registered with them in the municipality, 700 residents have moved away. You can imagine what the situation is like in these smaller places, what the situation in Black grass is like. How are you going to list our agricultural land there? How will you list apartments and houses when villages are literally devastated and empty? Certainly, the serious question when it comes to the agricultural list is – how will you treat the processed agricultural land purchased by foreign citizens? That, believe me, is not few in Serbia; there are also in central Serbia, in Šumadija and down south, but it is particularly expressed in Vojvodina. First of all, Ivica Todorovic has a lot of land purchased in Vojvodina. There's more companies. Mrs. Komic knows that very well, since she is a Novosadian. On the "Planta" Mr. Todorovic bought about three and a half thousand hectares of land. I'm very interested in how it's going to be recorded after this list? Will it be recorded as a country that is just here with us, and the owner is in Croatia, or will some new model be invented? Believe me, there's a lot of that. Five people bought huge land. What happens if they don't respect it and can't legally apply it? I'd like to get a concrete answer to that question. The problems that pressure our agriculture are evident. We will have opportunities to do so, I hope, when new laws have recently come to us, which, in some ways, have been imposed on us by the EU, which we must adopt. What's very important is that there's absolutely no movement when it comes to our agriculture. I think these changes are going to come, and we're going to talk about this, practically just personal changes and our agrarian and our farmer are not going to have any of that. It is truly disastrous that this government cannot recognize its recovery, its developmental chance, which is no longer understood for the only economic branch in which we are achieving a surplus. For everything we've warned and kept talking about our Ministry of Agriculture for the past three years, after a few years, it turns out we're absolutely right. Everything we've said has happened, and here in Serbia, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that many people are holding a monopoly. Simply, there is no excuse for the government's moves at certain times, that Serbia, which is a agricultural country, is in a position to empty our shelves in the shops, that there is no milk, no sugar, no oil. That's just inadmissible. I don't think any of these personal changes and government reconstructions and the sessions we're going to have in the afternoon are going to make any better, that they're just cosmetic changes, that the elections are delayed, if you can hold out until next year's regular elections. But you certainly spent all your credits. We are convinced, and if you extend the agony of our citizens in this way, that Serbia's citizens will certainly know that in the next elections they will not give you confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51108	The time spent since the parliamentary group's time is fourteen minutes and thirty-five seconds. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. He's not here. Then National MP Milica Vojic Markovic. After that, MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51109	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the countries can be rich and poor, and developed and undeveloped, all depends on what criteria you take into account in that division. Right now I'm going to talk about a criteria called seriousness. Under that criterion, countries can be serious and unserious. Serious countries take care of strictly specific jobs that follow them, plan them on time, provide money for the job, provide the organisation, institutions and institutions to run the business, and then carry out the work. Serbia has defined and strictly set a legal deadline for the implementation of the census – from 1 April to 15 April 2011. The Bureau of Statistics, which is one of the great business carriers, has taken his job seriously, which is very large, and has done a number of preparatory activities. Among other things, he named list committees in local self-government units to be the bearers of the job. 162 such commissions have been formed. They were designed and prepared for printing basic list forms, auxiliary forms, methodological and organisational instructions. That's all I care about. The second business carrier is the Republic Geodetic Institute, which has also partially done its part of the job, and it stopped there. All of this is because the Serbian government, which had the obligation to provide funds to carry out this big and clogged job, did not provide funds. The government says funds in the 2011 budget that are set aside for the needs of the census, households and apartments are not enough for quality and timely preparation and implementation of the census. As a result, the government finds a Solomonian solution so that the work is done, i.e. citizens at least died that this job will be done, and the whole job will be moved, she says – the field realisation business in six months, that is, for the period from 1st to 15th October 2011. The whole story is that the government has no money in the budget right now, but it will provide money from donations, because it believes that for this big job, which is normally being done throughout the region, will also be interested in the EU, which will provide funds and give them to countries that are unable to implement this decision, i.e. the list. The government says, at least in the explanation that you delivered us here, that the funds were provided, but that they would not be available until September of the month. That way, since September of the month, we can start doing preparatory work, finish them and do the list in October this year. Let's talk about this list, which I say again is regional business. All those who think that this future census in the region will be a mere statistical story and will be reduced to real statistics. I'm sure it's politics, first of all. That is why Serbia's delay in realising a job that needs to be implemented products of political implications. One of the political implications will refer to the remaining Serbs in the region. Another political implication is that we are late to provide precise data, including the information Brussels is asking for in the questionnaire. The third might be that this delay will lead us to a delay in accessing one of the access funds. To return to the future list, which one analyst says - cold statistics will confirm many of the evils that have been happening in this space for the last decade. I will start with very often in the media coming up with data that Serbs who returned to Croatia are crying and asking the country's queen, Serbia, and warn the Serbian authorities to help them, because in the upcoming list in Croatia one of the so-called manipulations is being prepared. Human indifference, and I'll explain what's going on. Later on, wrong political classifications will be drawn from these manipulations. What's this about? Many evasive Serbs have reported their stay in Croatia; Serbs living there could accidentally help the formation of the Croatian Orthodox Church, and we saw what this is about a while ago, as the forms for the upcoming list make a cunning statement of the section – Orthodox and Serbian Orthodox Church. Of course, this matter must be clarified to people, since Croatians used similar manipulation in 2001. Then 90% of Serbs declared themselves to belong to the Orthodox, not only to the Serbian Orthodox Church, where only 10% of Serbs came forward. A similar problem arises in Montenegro, where such a census will also be realised in April. And there, citizens will plead national and ethnicity, as well as use of language. The Montenegrin opposition fears that the government will try to reduce the percentage of citizens who plead as Serbs, in particular to boost pressure on citizens who have declared themselves in the past list as Serbs speaking Serbian. Doesn't Serbia care about this? I must say, in Republika Srpska, he is also afraid of unitaryisation and centralisation of Bosnia. Not only are Serbian parties afraid, the Croatian parties also say. These are some things we need to figure out when we talk about the delay in the census that Serbia needs to implement. The result of the census in Serbia will, in fact, be a decade-long update of demographic, economic and social national images and will determine many important things for Serbia. Not only for Serbia, but it will also determine Serbia's relations with other countries, accidentally open old wounds; we will wonder why we are extinct, familiar with unfulfilled promises. I do not believe that the official Serbia, I think of this authority, will like the results of the census, there will be painful memories. As someone who thinks a little in advance, I can assume that citizens will feel when they have questions of a type of white plague, for example. We should face the white plague and explain why our population becomes less than 30,000 - 35,000 each year. It's about one kickinda, less. Then we need to remind ourselves of why our young ones are leaving and why, besides Ireland and Hungary, we are the third nation in the world by the size of the diaspora. We need to talk about why we're the fourth nation in pessimism. We need to answer the writer's question whether we're computer-written. What do you think the results of all this will be? How many army members of 700,000 who live below the poverty line will act on the question of the number of apartments or houses they own and currently do not live in them? So these are some things that are very alarming. How do you think Serbs living in northern Kosovo and living in Kosovo and Metohija will feel when the fake state of Kosovo implements the list in April and when it announces that it will be implemented throughout the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? What's next is a list in agriculture. Fifty years this list was not implemented and it was normal for it to be implemented in 2012. I repeat the question my colleague Milica Radovic, as an authorised representative of the DSS, has raised – why are both lists not being implemented at the same time? I know there are different opinions, and maybe those opinions are scientifically based, but right now, I don't think we can handle two lists. Therefore, the list was scheduled to be implemented in the first half of 2012, and delayed for the second half of 2012 and the big question was whether it would be realised. This list is very important because it will cover households dealing with agricultural production, and the questions will refer to the area of the land that they farm, whether they have crops, whether they have livestock stock, how many cattle, bee hives, whether they use machinery and what they use, whether they use fertilizer, whether they bring products to the market and the like. These are very important issues, which should answer the state of Serbia that should be asked, in fact, how much it must change its attitude towards agriculture, if it wants to live on agriculture, and it has all the conditions to live on agriculture. What is very important for me to say is that the funds in the agricultural census budget are not at all provided and that this is a question that someone has to answer, first of all because a trial list in agriculture was made in 2009. This test list was done precisely in order to reduce all relevant results from that list, practically and methodology and everything else that was established on this occasion as well, to use both this opportunity and thus to reduce the resources needed for this, which are not small and also to improve the work of the surveyors themselves on the ground. So both lists are important for Serbia. Serbia enters the list story, about the implementation of the census completely unprepared. Unprepared, because the state itself, personified in this government, which apparently has no vision of how to run a state, which is important to her business, and which are not, her list is completely irrelevant... So Serbia will not get the answers it needs. At best, the answers will be received just in some pre-election campaign in 2012 and these answers will not be realised in the right way at the time, when the campaign is launched. By the way, I have something else to say, that census would be very important and because we would get the right picture of the Serbian family, which is an interesting topic for many researchers and for all of us who are involved in politics and who are thinking about it in a normal way, that actually the population is what we should start when we talk about the state. We have very little research on the subject of the family. One of these researches was done recently, it's called - the Serbian family. An extraordinary research has been done. It was done in 2008. It would be interesting if those who skip the seriousness of providing funds today... They didn't even look at it. So I'll go back to the beginning of the story. There are serious and non-serious states. What do you think, based on what I just said, what is Serbia's state? You've got to figure this out on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51110	Eleven minutes and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Zoran Masic has the word, followed by MP Janko Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51111	Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will focus my debate primarily on amending the Agricultural List Act. As a member of the Parliament and as president of the Committee on Agriculture, I have, on several occasions, raised problems in agricultural production and talked about the state of our agriculture, but unfortunately for all these years, how much I am an MP, as well as the president of the Committee, the authorities and governments who led this country did not significantly influence the change in the situation in agricultural production. To tell you the truth, I'm sorry that this year's census wasn't realised, because just through statistical parameters it could be right to look at the situation in our agrarian, but I also appreciate the fact that this country doesn't have the money, that it's a busy job, and that, in my view, is the primary reason why this list is delayed for next year. I think that here and our government and state can lose, because if we get candidate status for accession to the European Union, exactly the statistics that the state has are some indicators and some initial state of play in the use of access funds. It is agriculture that should be in that period, i.e. in the period of obtaining candidate status and in particular EU accession, it also has the largest benefit from our membership in the EU. On the other hand, maybe it's a good thing it's not going to happen, because all these indicators are very low and then that starting base would be bad. I will use the data published by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the Republic Statistics Institute to present through this debate some data that are relevant and which confirm my assessment that the overall situation in our agricultural production and agrarian is bad, that our agricultural producers, ultimately, live badly and that our citizens, who are users and consumers of agricultural products, are also poored and that from year to year the quantities of agricultural products that our citizens consume. I'll start first of all from the situation in our villages because the gross of our agricultural production is still going on in the villages, so there are the largest areas of agricultural land. But there is a dreary picture of our villages and agriculture in our villages, because these producers are the most affected and, unfortunately, there are today the most hungry people. What may be even more devastating is the depopulation, i.e. A significant reduction in the number of people living in villages and dealing with agricultural production. Demographs estimate that over the next ten years, there will literally be an extinction of about 1200 villages. Of the total 4800 villages, about 1200 villages will almost die out. I support this information that more than 700 villages do not live in more than 100 inhabitants. Less than 50 people live in 352 settlements, and 350 villages live between 50 and 100 inhabitants. If this number is added to another 500 settlements that were from 100 to 150 inhabitants in 2002, it is precisely those 1200 settlements that are threatened by extinction. The reduction in population also reduces production capacity. It is estimated that in our villages today there are over 40,000 different livestock sites that have been used for livestock production. It is estimated that due to the reduction of the population and the large number of old people per year in our villages, up to 600,000 hectares remain unprocessed. So out of a total of 4.200,000 about 600,000 hectares each year, it's not processed. What's even more devastating is the decline of livestock production. In countries with developed agricultural production gross income from livestock in total agricultural income should be at a minimum of 60% and up to 70%. We have a reverse proportion – with income from livestock between 30 and 40% and from war production between 60 and 70%. The total number of our stock fund came to the level this country had in 1990, and I will support it with numbers published by the Republic Statistics Office. So in 1996, there were 1,335,000 cattle in our country, in 2007, 1,087,000 and under a million in 2010. Only the number of cows, masculine throats, has been reduced for the past two years by 150,000 or 200,000 and is 400,000 or 450,000, and at one time it was between 700,000 and 800,000. The number of pigs in the Republic of Serbia in 1996 was 4,344,000, and in 2007, it was 3,830,000. In 2010, it must be another hundred and maybe thousands less. The number of sheep in 1996 was 1,832,000 and 1,600,000 in 2007. The number of horses has fallen drastically, but can be justified, because industrialization and mechanization and horse are no longer a working animal, but it is more than halved. In 1996 there were 53,000 horses, and in 2007, only 19,000 horses. In 2010, it might not even be 15,000. The number of livestock has also been reduced, although livestock as a livestock species can recover relatively quickly, but there is also stagnation. In 1996 there were 22.806,000 and in 2007 16,420,000; nearly five or six million individuals were less in livestock production in the Republic of Serbia for the past 10 or 11 years. Furthermore, what is also normal to expect when the number of cattle is reduced, it is that the quantity of meat produced is reduced. This reduction is also evident, so around 440,000 tonnes of meat was produced in 2008, which is about 200,000 tonnes less than in 1990, meaning less almost a third. Of course, this downsizing affected that we, from a country that was an exporter of meat to a world and European market, become a meat importer year after year. Thus, in the mid - 1990 ’ s, we exported about 50,000 tons of meat, or made foreign exchange income of $450,000 on meat exports alone. Serbia participated in the exports with 30,000 tonnes. In recent years, we have been exporting between 1,000 and 2,000 tonnes of meat to the European market. For these last seven or eight years, we cannot even close-to meet that quota that we have approved by the EU; we are authorised to export June meat, about 8,100 tonnes without customs preferences, and our exports are below a thousand tonnes of juniper meat. It is something that is devastating for the agriculture and government of this country that has had such a relationship with agricultural production. Certainly, the reduction in total meat production has also affected the reduction of meat consumption in our population. This consumption is not reduced just because of reduced production, we can meet our needs, consumption is reduced and due to the high price of meat and the decline in the standard of living of our citizens. It is believed that the average consumption of meat per capita in our country is somewhere between 36 and 40 kilograms. I will tell you how much consumption there is in some other EU countries, and also in the neighbouring countries. The average consumption of meat in the European Union is 87 kilograms, so annual consumption per capita, and we have up to 40 kilograms. In Hungary, it is 92kg, in Slovakia 66kg, in the Czech Republic 73kg, in Bulgaria 62kg, in Lithuania 49kg, in Romania 47 kilograms and in Slovenia 90kg per capita, I mean meat consumption. Of course, the U.S. has the highest consumption, about 115 kilograms, and in Austria it's about 105 kilograms. Look, honourable MPs and colleagues, where we are and what standard and consumption such important foods as meat are for us. Furthermore, what is also problematic in our country from the aspect of total agricultural production and agricultural production, it is the use of processing facilities. We had a respectable food industry at some point...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51112	People's MP, I ask you to bring the use of processing facilities and the state of the processing industry into contact with the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51113	I'll get it anyway, Mrs. Comic, let me just, you're interrupting me, I didn't even say. I'll definitely talk about agricultural products, not about cars, but about production...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51114	People's MP, in 12 minutes I remind you of your obligation to comply with the Rules of Procedure on the subject of the agenda. So the topic of the agenda is in front of you, you need to bring it into contact with the production capacity, the general state in the branches of which the state deals, agriculture, etc. The topic of the agenda is the draft laws on amendments to the laws on censuses, agriculture and decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51115	I believe your ears don't like what I'm saying, but unfortunately...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51116	People's MP, I ask you to remember the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that prescribe the manner in which the Members of Parliament are treated, whether one of us is chairman or not. That is the way you have begun, forbidden by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, it is understandable that what is written in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is out of the question, but that is why I ask you to allow me to take care of the order and that you and I too respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've used 13 minutes. I'm asking you to sign up. You have twelve more minutes at your disposal from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51117	I haven't interfered with the mind of a business provision, I've always tried to be within my Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you as chairman, equally among us, to also respect me and my personality...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51118	People's MP, I now warn you that you are required to listen to the chairman and that you are obliged to speak on the agenda and that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. It's your duty to respect that. It is my duty to give criminal measures to MPs who refuse to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51119	Mrs. Comic, I thank you. I've finished the debate, and the people will judge your relationship as chairman of this topic we're discussing and what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51120	Thank you. Thirteen minutes used by the MP's group. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinovic, after which the MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51121	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the draft decision on the official statistics programme is on the agenda from 2011 to 2015. It could have been difficult to identify from the discussions of my predecessors, almost none of the ten speakers who were before me, from opposition parties, mentioned the importance of the official statistics programme for a country. I would try to respond to what it means for Serbian citizens to adopt a programme and later apply the official statistics programme. In fact, what is the use of quality statistics for an orderly society in the first place? The direct benefit for citizens, for one society, is data, which should be of trust, which can use all spheres of sectoral policy, from science, researchers, students, stock exchanges, small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, media, in short, all those who need the exact data, to whom they are intended. This programme should provide both monitoring and measuring of all activities that are in some way, particularly in the economic sphere, a condition for compliance with our standards with EU standards. I stress, especially in the economic sphere. Statistical data, which in some cases were incomparable or inadequate, not because we have poor statisticians, but because we had such a system of statistics, should be in line with EU standards by 2015 with this programme. As I said, it is not the basic goal of harmonising our statistics with EU statistics, in general, global statistics, but of this programme and the Law on Official Statistics, which I remind you of in 2009 in this assembly, should enable accurate data to be used for the needs of all citizens of Serbia, our economy, sciences, etc. Some of my predecessors mentioned, the truth, very casually, certain estimates of the state of our economy, the state of our society. I would refer to only one exact piece of information that is a product of the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia. I would point out that the growth of production in the Republic of Serbia in January of this year compared to the same month last year is 3.8%. None of my predecessors provided that exact information. That's why last time I said, not belittled, but respecting my colleagues, that sometimes they look like catastrophes who only bring bad news and bad data to the speaker, literally waiting for the euro rate to rise compared to the dinar, so that tomorrow they would point out that for the pay phone. They did so for months, until the euro rate in relation to the dinar began to fall. Now that... (President: National MP, and you on the subject of the agenda, the euro and the list, please be contacted. ) I am talking about comparing statistics with flat-rate estimates that are contrary to statistical data, Madam Chairman. I'm sorry if I got out of the topic a little bit. The prerequisite for quality statistics and what is more discussed today than this proposal for the statistical programme is a quality census, which will be held in October of this year, in line with the amendments to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments. Under the law amending the Agricultural List Act, the list will be carried out a year later. Today, questions were addressed to the department of statistics. In the position in which they are here in the Assembly they cannot give an answer and I will try to pass on the answer they gave to the Committee on Science, one of the parent committees. They made it very clear that the list of agriculture and the censuses, households and apartments are not the same thing. The list of farms is a more complex list, which also contains several dozens of pages in fact; it assumes and insight into the situation on the ground, insight into the state of agricultural land. The census is a prerequisite for registering agricultural households to be typed and it is a basis for the list of farms. This should be clear to those who want to say that it would be more rational that a censuser who does not have enough knowledge of agriculture or livestock can also list agricultural households in the same way as someone who is more skilled in the area, which is certainly not true. As a result, training for censusors who list agricultural households lasts longer. That makes the census pattern much more complex. Therefore, the census will be made on time, as in all countries in Europe, so in 2011. In any case, he'll be able to serve as a starting point for the application of this program I was just talking about. This list in October, which I think is very important, regardless of what six months later, will show the exact development of individual regions. In some ways, they will give us what we talked about today, the social picture of our population, the population of the Republic of Serbia. It will be a good basis for this parliament when considering the laws in all these areas, regional development and social policy, it will be a good basis for the government of the Republic of Serbia to create all these policies. However, I would draw attention to one aspect of this list, which was also discussed on the Committee of Science, but also on other resolution committees, which is a way of collecting data prescribed by this law. I believe, like all those who have specifically studied these laws, basic laws and these amendments, that it allows a list in a way that provides data collection to ensure the validity of data and, more importantly to me, full respect for human and civil rights and respect for privacy in data collection. This is illustrated by the list, or list, of which it is called, in which it is allowed for every citizen of this country to clearly and without any pressure to express data such as ethnicity, or nationality, native language and religion, which has been talked about today. So, this law, as well as the list, which pre-sets neither nationality nor religion, nor the language spoken, is in line with the EU's highest standards and developed countries. What I would draw attention to, however, is our obligation to the Constitution, according to a member who quoted someone here, and according to the Diaspora and Serbs Act in the region, is the fact that in April there is also a list in the countries of the region, so in Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro, Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary and Romania. It would be important that in the way that national minorities in Serbia have the opportunity to freely define their nation, religion and language that they speak, it is also possible for Serbs living outside the borders of our country to fall apart and that they remain outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. It would be important, therefore, that Serbs can freely speak their nationality if they are members of the Serbian Orthodox Church to say so freely and to speak freely in what language they speak. This is the starting basis for achieving collective and individual minority rights, so language learning, letters, representation in state administration bodies, representation in representative bodies, etc. This is also the reason in our country for all minority members to be freely informed of all this data, so that they can freely participate and participate in the realisation of all these rights. As a member of the Democratic Party, I will advocate that members of all minorities in Serbia freely declare themselves on the upcoming census and use all their minority rights to the full, but I will also advocate that members of the Serb people in the region exercise all their minority rights. In this regard, but also in terms of the importance of official statistics, which I spoke about a little bit, I will support the proposed amendments to the law and the proposal for a decision on the official statistics programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51122	Eleven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Mirko Cikiriz, and after that, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51123	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, Serbian Renewal Movement MPs did not take part in the debate when we passed the List of Population Act and the Agricultural List Act. It seems to me that it will be interesting for both you and the public to hear our estimates of the importance of both lists. What we are not satisfied at first, as are most of the MPs, and I believe the representatives of the Ministry and the Republic Bureau of Statistics, is that the list is delayed by six months and the list of agriculture by one year. Most MPs, in particular Mr Janko Veselinovic, pointed to the social importance of the list of agriculture and censuses, households and apartments. I think that today we have heard really several catastrophic estimates about the state of demographic policy, about the state of birth, about the uneven development and about the assumptions that it will look like the final census, but I would say that we can all feel, based on one part of the indicators, what the state of the country is, we can assume, we can root, we can give a distorted picture, but only with a comprehensive list will we have the right basis for implementing the right policy and adopting adequate measures in all areas, including in terms of birth, demographics, decentralisation, decentralisation, even balanced development, etc. The census was conducted with us and when we were occupied by the country, 500 years under the Turks; the Turks had extremely good censuses because of their interests. In the countries she held under her occupation, Austro-Hungarians also had good censuses. Indeed, every census and list of farms (not made for 50 years) is multiplely significant for one country. He had to find some mechanism to find the means to get this done in time. Of course we're going to vote for amendments and additions to both laws, but indeed, some new shift of deadlines could not have any justification. Of course, when the census is implemented, regardless of what we know largely based on other indicators, but not comprehensive, we will be able to determine the right demographic policy and policy towards birth. A number of conditions and essential characteristics of families, agricultural land, buildings, age structure, size and degree of exploitation of agricultural properties will also be established; ethnic, economic, educational, migration and other characteristics of the region where the census is conducted, and will take place on the territory of the whole country. A unique database will be created and adequate measures will be taken after a single database. I'll give you just one example, and it's probably interesting for the public. Of course demographic discharges are common. They are not the result of this government's policy, they are the result of the two serious processes we had in our country, back in the days of the Socialist Yugoslavia. It's the process of industrialising the country, and it's an accelerated process, when people were mass leaving villages and moving to cities and when everyone preferred security, regular salary and regular incomes, rather than working on the ground, to deal with agriculture, as popularly said -- that it works in an "open sky factory". The second cause of all this is the wrong demographic and population policy. Today, indeed, all of us who travel through Serbia see that demographic discharge is particularly present in Southeast Serbia, eastern Serbia, but believe that this process is also present in the "European locomotive of Serbia", in Vojvodina. As all the duchess tend to head towards Novi Sad, everyone in Serbia tends to head for Belgrade. The reason why that's the case doesn't have to be explained much. For the past few years, the state has invested infrastructureally and in every way, for example, in Guč and has helped the event of the Dragačev Assembly of trumpeters, but it is interesting that despite such investments, we have a population drain process and today Guca has two thousand inhabitants. We have a good privatisation of Farmacoma, everyone else is on the budget, a little private initiative, but people move out because they don't have any chance or perspective, especially those who finish colleges. Since I belong to a group of MPs who, for everything he claims, wants to give adequate indicators, I would not agree today with many MPs who have talked about that agriculture is, I don't know, on its knees, that statistical indicators will show that the situation is catastrophic, etc. So, in that part, I think it's safe that statistical indicators will show that this ministry, regardless of what we think, is primarily about many incentive measures and subsidies and everything else that should have helped the Serbian peasant... (President: National MP, please link the Ministry of Agriculture to the topic of the agenda. I'll, of course, get in touch. Surely, the statistical indicators established on the basis of the census will show that our agriculture is in the stage of preparations for EU accession, as the preparation of the agricultural producer and our farmers for EU market accession will go three ways. The first stage is preparation, we're at that stage now. The second is application, implementation. The third is absolute and unspeakable respect for EU standards, especially with regard to the quality of the market economy and the rest. I believe that following the completion of the list of agriculture and the population, a fully serious policy will come, which will deal seriously with all the topics that were on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51124	Seven minutes and fifty seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi. He's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51125	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully followed the morning presentation of my colleagues, arguments presented by the opposition as reasons why these proposals should not be voted on by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the beginning of my presentation, due to the demands of certain opposition MPs to work together a census and a list of farms, I will evoked the memory of our late colleague, Mr Vladan Batic, who kept saying, you know, that great man kept saying – no need to mix grandmothers and frogs. They're not a list of the population and a list of farms the same thing. I'm a graduate farming engineer and I know very well what the list of farms means, and I also know what the census is, because I've had the opportunity to participate in that list myself several times in my life as a censusist. On the other hand, he held a critical note in today's discussion of certain opposition MPs because we want to do this list, and then he carried out a certain critical tone because the list was supposed to be delayed indefinitely. At the same time, some MPs missed the topic and mixed the agenda item today at 15.00 hours, which is called the government's reconstruction, with a list. We just had a situation where some people in this room today were talking about the government's reconstruction, not the list. There is a proverb in Kruševec, he says, "The singer who first corns before dawn ends first in the soup. “ Indeed, when we talk about the point of the agenda and the reasons why we should accept something, or when we call on history, tradition, the traditions of the Serbian people, of what remains throughout history, to remind ourselves, since Mr Babic very well spoke about historical depictions of how the census has developed throughout history, and he also mentioned two years, in 1084 and 1666... These are the first years when lists were made in Europe, and the first modern list was in Canada and North America. Let me just remind you that in 1666, we hosted you in Serbia (if I may say so, freely interpreting - "indicating") the Turkish traveller, the harakli Evli Celebi, who at the time worked a list for the needs of the Turkish, or Ottoman Empire. Those who said that everything in Serbia had failed and that nothing was good, that this cataclysm would only remind me, and here there is a library where stenographic notes were kept, at a discussion in 1907, when there was also talk in the Serbian parliament about the census, although that year we did not have a census in the Kingdom of Serbia. Here's what the opposition said then, and you just delete the year, and it happens in 1907, so you'll see if there's any difference between what we hear today and what was said in Serbia in 1907 and ask yourself where we spent the human century. The opposition then says: "Serbia has failed, villages are dying, the budget is non-intentional, our army is going naked and barefoot, the gendarme has uniforms that are falling apart, villages are dying, and Serbia is waiting for destruction. Serbia will disappear in as many years, and this is the darkest time in Serbia's history. When someone deals with Serbia's history in this period, that history will be written in black letters, in dark ink, because we are facing a great disaster and will die with this government. “ I will just remind myself, in 1907, that year was marked as the golden age of Serbian parliamentarianism, and those years Serbia stepped deep into so many necessary reforms, which contributed to the victory of the First World War, which contributed to the military reform led by the Duke of Travelers by the most glorious victories of the Serbian army... (President: People's MP, please, so that you won't be the only link from 1907 if we don't like to respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure now and then.) I just wanted to say about the arguments that we couldn't even connect to through this debate. Now I'm going back to something we've also heard. We've heard that someone through the list wants to hide something, we've heard that the list is very cheap, but that the state of Serbia doesn't want a list because we want to hide something somewhere, hang on, mumble; that we want to put new harrases and new taxes on citizens, that we want to write down every pear and chocolate vines in order to restore some of the harrases in this history, 1666. That's not true. It's all demagogy. It will also enter the history of parliamentaryism, in such books and stenograms, as a testimony to people who spoke of this time in this way. What do I want to tell you? We are witnessing that the opposition here, criticising these efforts and efforts, efforts by the Democratic Party and the ruling majority to carry out the census in Serbia, shows that it is only on the words for Europe, and that when it comes to showing that it is going to Europe, it does not really want it. How can you go to Europe and not respect European rules? It is as if you want to participate in a football game, in Euroliga or in the World Cup, but to say – we are not subject to the rules that the FIFA formulated, our Serbian rules apply to us and we will play with both hands, feet and we will. If you want to go to Europe and if you have real intention of going to Europe, you have to do it in words, but in deeds. Then you must really do these efforts, whether they come from the government, whether you support the government or not, to support them, or not to support them. On the other hand, we heard that Turkey has been a candidate for EU accession for 30 years. That's not true. Citizens of Serbia, don't let the ignorant deceive you. Turkey won candidate status in 1999 and negotiations on EU accession began only in 2005. So it takes only six years for Turkey's EU accession talks. Everything else is deception, demagogy, and it's the most ground floor demagogy, all with the aim of telling citizens -- you know, it's on the EU's long stick. When it comes to censuses and lists, I will only tell you one anecdote I heard when I conducted a list of the long 80s in Serbia. There came a man who trained us and said – you know, there are censusers who are unable to write a household in the course of one day, there are recorders that the Lord has given to be smart and valuable, so they are able to make 10, 20 households, there are censusers that God has given to be, unfortunately, smart, but lazy, so they are also bad censusors, because they do not use that talent to adequately show it. What do you think is the worst combination that can happen to a single censusor? Of course, we all said - that the censuser should be stupid and lazy, because these are the two worst combinations that God can give man. Then the man said, "Well, it is not; it is the worst for the censusor, but also for the politician, to be stupid and worthy." He doesn't know, and he will. So he strives, and he exerts himself, and all that he does is worse, and by himself, and by the people and by the people. Then he better be stupid and lazy. The same is true of the censusor and the politician – if you don't already know, then at least don't get in the way of the stained veins to show your ignorance to the citizens of Serbia, this audience and fellow MPs. On the other hand, I have another very serious remark – when it came to the list, it was said that neither "Serbian" nor "Buda". Well, you know, they don't even work "Swedish women"; if "Swedish women" had cost less, they might have worked "The Buddha," too. Others, meanwhile, commented that 30,000 people, citizens of Serbia, are less in Serbia each year and that each year in Serbia, one city of the type of Alexandrovac, Trstenik, disappears and that the trend will continue. If the trend were to take place only during the government's mandate, Mirko Cvetkovic would be the first to seek the government's resignation, but the trend in Serbia has lasted since 1992. If anyone thinks hyperinflation, wars, exodus of young people from Serbia to Canada, New Zealand, Australia, that all of this can be done for free, that is a terrible mistake. It has its own price, and that's the price we pay, not only because there are fewer of us every day and there are less than 30,000 of us each year, we pay that price through all these other statistical and economic indicators that can be seen when a census is being made. There's something else I need to say. Today not only is it March 8th, Women's Day, today is also the International Day of Bax, Ugursuze and Mushor. It's marked in Krusevec. May all those who present such catastrophic assessments in Serbia, all who think that there is an overall disaster in Serbia and that we will disappear read the report from the 1907 session of the Serbian Parliament, when a list was discussed whether or not to be implemented. And let them ask for an honorary card in such an association, but let them not place such information on the citizens of Serbia, because these catastrophic estimates and forecasts, which will never be realized, aim only at scaring the citizens. The census does not serve to burden Serbian citizens with taxes and haraks, nor to scare Serbian citizens, the list serves to prepare us, so that we can go to Europe. At the end of my presentation, I must express a fierce protest and disdain over how, on the International Women's Day, one MP addressed the chairman and the dictionary he addressed, both on International Women's Day or in Honorary Posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51126	Eleven minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. He's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51127	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would agree immediately with the proposal to move the list and delay for October. There'll probably be opportunities to make better preparations and then there'd probably be less chance of politicizing. Politisation was announced from Bujanovac by a petition submitted to the government, particularly on the subject of the census. Also, knowing about the 2002 census practice, when we had a lot of problems with censusing in areas within the land zone and in Medveđa, both in Bujanovac and in Presevo, the same problems could be expected in the upcoming list. It is a large number of displaced people, as it is officially said -- internally displaced persons, who, during an emergency war in 1999, mass-crossed Kosovo's territory. A very small number returned in the meantime. It's a special issue now, in part because there are no conditions needed in the meantime for a return, an economic situation... The agricultural households, due to this act at that time, failed in the course of the war; both the stock fund and their entire economy had failed. Apparently, as soon as there's been a problem for eleven years, and it doesn't work out in that return, that's where the problem is deeper. However, as far as the upcoming census is concerned, it should probably be there in time to see that the same problems we had almost nine or nine years ago did not occur in April 2002. There are many displaced persons who have become full - age in the meantime, who now have problems, which I point to on several occasions in the Assembly through parliamentary questions. These are problems related to the right to obtain personal documents and even residence certificates. Since I've asked these questions a few times, and so far I don't have the right answers, it probably takes time for these problems to clear up at all. I'd like to point out another problem... In fact, not a problem, because in 2002 it was the first practice that our citizens staying abroad for more than a year do not count as residents. There were huge differences with us. For example, as far as the Preshevo municipality is concerned, it is estimated to be 30 percent of the population. Out of 48,000, how many municipal census commissions were listed, officially, at the end of that year, the Institute issued data that there were 35,000 citizens in the municipality; so about 13,000 of our citizens met the condition that they stayed abroad for more than a year. That's why there are certain consequences. Now I ask the question, based on our practice, 11-year-old practices, in some ways they've been disabled by those municipalities where this percentage is higher... Not when it comes to education or health care, because these citizens do these services in countries where they work, but they have property, houses, apartments, for which they pay taxes. In that part, I think that, in practice, the results of the census are somewhat unfairly applied, for example. For transfer funds, the number of residents is the (those regular transfers) criterion. I repeat, when it comes to those activities where services are used abroad, okay, but what if a man pays taxes on that property, when it comes to that infrastructure part? He has the same rights as other citizens who are there all the time. This way, in my opinion, they deny themselves. In that part of the municipality, at least so far, they had fewer opportunities to use regular transfers and regular funds. I think that this problem should also be seen in this period, to see in practice what is possible for these results to be applied fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51128	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, this is a moment in which I would ask a question for the word of the president, i.e. a representative of the parliamentary groups or of anyone else who did not exercise his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, given the notice previously given that our work and search today will be completed at 1400 hours. Now we interrupt this session. You will be informed of the follow-up, date and time, by our work on a joint principle and uniform search under these three points of the agenda, of the right to the word of those who did not exercise their right under Article 96, i.e. the right to the word of the President or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. At 15.00 hours, as we know, a new session is scheduled, and in 15 hours we are all expecting you in the session hall that is scheduled, with agenda points – amendments and additions to the Law on Ministry and Government. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 14.15 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51129	The second session of the first Regular Session on 8 March 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 15.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal from the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Mladjan Dinkic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find that the mandate of MP Mladjan Dinkic is confirmed. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to enter the O.R. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are working conditions in the 127 MPs' room. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representative of the motions Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, I have also called for the meetings to attend: Gradimir Nenadovic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojić, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Vladana Jović, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Slavica Stišović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Željko Curguz, Senior Advisor at the Republic Secretariat of Law. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. In determining the agenda of the sitting, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft amending and supplementing law on the level of the tight interest rate, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 March 2011, be put on the agenda of the emergency procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 143 MPs, no one voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft Law on both amendments and additions to the Government Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 March 2011 (point 1 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 134 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft ministry law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 March 2011 (point 2 of the proposed agenda) under the urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic is, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government and the Proposal for a Law on Ministrys. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I beg your pardon. Of the 132 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 as a whole. D n n n e r e d: We move to work according to the established agenda of the session. In accordance with Article 87(2), we'll be working after 1800 hours. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51131	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I advertise the violation of Articles 27, 108 and 107 – the President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, chaires and performs other tasks, and a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. As a very large violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, we believe that the prime minister did not come to explain this bill. It is almost politically unacceptable for us to act now as if the regular work had led to the conclusion that it was necessary to amend the Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government, as if a major political scandal had not occurred and a major political destabilisation three weeks ago. The least he could do was to come and convince the MPs why this ministry law is better than the previous, since it is not clear to any of us, and what will be discussed. We don't think it's possible to continue the work unless the session breaks down and brings the prime minister to represent the bill, because he said it was more or less his decision. We do not admit, although with all due respect to Milan Markovic, he is one of the few ministers who has performed the same ministerial function in this government, and the others are... He could've come whoever, they're just trading like party change anyway. That's why we expected the prime minister to come and explain this bill. This really is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly to a large extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51132	There's no damage to article 27. We have a government representative, he's competent, and he'll explain the draft laws that are on the agenda. In agreement with the decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 and 2, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed in the following way: Parliament group 'For European Serbia' – hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group 'Forward, Serbia' – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; Parliament group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group 'New Serbia' – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Employment group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group will represent MP Jovan Palalic and SRS Nemanja Sarovic. So far, there are no other proposals for representation. Moving to 1-2. Point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Government and Proposal for a MINISTRATIVE LAW (Common Principled Search) Does the Representative of Proposals Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want to speak? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51133	Thank you. President, honourable Members of Parliament, allow me to make a few preliminary remarks concerning the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act and the proposal for a law on ministries. The reasons for the adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act stem from the need to create legal preconditions that will allow for a higher degree of uniform political functioning of the Government, a more coherent work of government members, and a harmonised representation of the government's policies and views in the public. For those reasons, appropriate legal solutions are proposed. First, from submitting a proposal from the Prime Minister to discharge ministers to a decision by the National Assembly, ministers cannot exercise their powers, but they are taken by a member of the government whom the Prime Minister has jurisdiction. Secondly, that government members, state secretaries and directors of special organisations in the government's service are obliged to express and represent the government's views on public statements and performances, that the government's decision must be represented in the public and by a member of the government who voted against it or was abstained, that information about the government's work cannot be given contrary to the way given to a particular Government's Rules of Procedure or in a way that cannot be determined which member of the Government, State Secretary, Director of a specific organisation or Service of Government gives information. Third, that members of the government, state secretaries and directors of special organisations in the government service are obliged to respect and carry out the mandatory instructions and special duties given to them by the Prime Minister in accordance with the government's programme and policy. In addition to the above, in order to ensure the continued functioning and execution of tasks under the responsibility of the General Secretariat, such as, conditionally speaking, the central government service, a solution to which the Secretary-General of Government's term of office ceases to be appointed by the new Secretary-General of the Government, by resignation or resolution, instead of a solution so far, where the term of office ended with the term of office of the Prime Minister. As for the reasons that led us to propose a new law on ministries, these reasons stem from the need to ensure more effective work of the Government, a more rational and functional organisation of state administration bodies, as well as effective and economic work and the effective achievement of established competences of ministries, administration bodies in their composition and specific organisations. In line with those reasons, it is proposed to reorganise the authorities of the state administration accordingly, creating organisational assumptions for making decisions more effective and implementing them within the executive authority. In addition, the objective of adopting this law is also seen in an effort to create a more rational and economical organisation of the body of the executive body, in order to achieve the reduction of public expenditure necessary for its work. Consistent with the reasons for the adoption of this law and the objectives that it aims to achieve, a new state administration body organisation is proposed, which means reducing the number of ministries and reducing the number of special organisations in relation to the current number, by seven ministries, instead of the previous 24, and by two special organisations. So three stop working, and one administration body within the ministry becomes a special organisation. This requires the precision of the work of ministries and special organisations already educated, i.e. continuing to work with the amended name and the workaround set out in this law, as well as such solutions, which, starting from the relatives and links of areas for which certain ministries are responsible, determine, specify and distinguish between the work of the authorities of the state administration. So, it is proposed that in the system of state administration there are the following ministries: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture, trade, forestry and water industry, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, the Ministry of State Administration, local self-government and human and minority rights, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Environment, mining and spatial planning, the Ministry of Culture, the Information and Information Society, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. When it comes to special organisations, this law provides for the existence of nine special organisations, but in order to avoid confusion, it should also be borne in mind that special organisations can exist and be established and special laws. The draft law also carried out the precision and demarcation of transactions, i.e. the responsibilities which were carried out by ministries and special organisations which cease to work, which take over and continue to carry out ministries and special organisations educated by this law, and provides for solutions on the takeover of employees, equipment, assets, objects, documentation and archives which are related to the transactions and responsibilities to be taken over. In the end, let me also say the information relating to the comparative review of the ministry law in the last ten years. This proposal today in front of the MPs is a proposal that has the least ministries and special organisations, when the federal ministries are taken into account, since World War II. If taken into account for the last ten years, there were 17 ministries in 2004, but there were more special organisations then, and then there was a federal government with a number of ministries. I think this is the information that needs to be known, given that very often, in a very daily way, you comment on the extent of the so-called. our administrations. So, I repeat, since World War II, the state administration has not had any less resources than it will have under the proposal of this law, nor has there been fewer organizations than I hope, if you accept this law, it will be in the coming period. I think this is enough for an opening statement. Of course, I am available for every question and clarification of individual members or ideas contained in these proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51134	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to inform you that a new parliamentary group called the United Regions of Serbia (G17 plus and Together for the Forest), which are 24 MPs, has been educated in the National Assembly. These are: Mladjan Dinkić, Suzana Grubjesic, Simo Vuković, Draga Damnjanović, Viorel Žura, Nebojsa Zdravković, Zeljko Ivanji, Vladimir Ilic, Branislav Jovanovic, Branislav Mitrović, Branislav Mitrić, Saša Milenić, Nikola Novaković, Jovan Nešović, Miroslava Pejic, Stojanka Petković, Elizabeth Paunović, Gordana Rajkov, Miljan Rangelović, Snezana Sedlar, Vlajko Senić, Stevica Spajic, Verobulj Stevanović, Jelena Travar and Sheriff Hamzagić. MP Mladjan Dinkic was appointed president of the parliamentary group, and MP Suzana Grubjesic was deputy president. Do the rapporteurs of the committees in charge – the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The National MP Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51135	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for SVM, the most important thing is that there is political stability in the country. We have been saying for months that the extraordinary parliamentary elections would be devastating at this point, not because we are afraid of elections, but because we believe that the government should carry out and do those jobs that it has made promises in previous years. We need to carry out all those tasks that are preconditions for obtaining EU membership candidate status. It is a chance for Serbia and should not be missed. That is why, with surprise, we have witnessed inter-party accounts within the ruling coalition of the previous months, and we are happy to have today's proposal for a law on ministries. It seems that the government and the ruling coalition will no longer deal with internal conflicts in the future, but with those issues that need to be addressed by the government. Now I'm going to list a few priorities, which are for us first. It is the adoption of a law on restitution, the law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina, a law on public property, which would give local self-government and AP Vojvodina after 16 years back their property and which would put us on the path of the current state according to which Serbia is the only country in Europe where local self-government and autonomous provinces have no property. The full review of the judiciary is also a very important priority for SVM, as well as the realization of those pre-election promises to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and raise standards. These are questions that the government should deal with in the future. These are the laws that should be passed in the interest of Serbia gaining EU membership candidate status by the end of the year. That is why we find it important that we finally, after a few months of partying, have reached the point where we can discuss the proposal for a law on ministries. I hope that in a few days we will close this whole chapter and that we will have a reconstructed government, which will deal with those issues for which it is resolved and chosen from next week. I must also say that we do not consider the reduction in the number of ministries to be extremely significant. We don't think that's going to make any more savings. We don't think this is significant for the whole country. We think this is one, first of all, a demagogue issue, but of course, we have no problem voting for the government to have fewer members in the future. That's no problem for us. The government can function with fewer members. The government could have done it by now. That is why we will support these solutions, but we are against the way of thinking which shows this move as something extremely important for the state and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As early as July 7th 2008, when this government was elected, I told the National Assembly that if there was effective work, in a few months no one would mention the bulkiness of the government, otherwise there would be too many 12 ministries. That's what I keep thinking. Whether the government will be effective, whether it will do what it is chosen for, does not depend on the number of ministries. Economics, a rational and functional organisation can be achieved with eight, both 15 and 24 ministries. I also have to say that it is wrong to say that this should have been done because we are following some European practice and that in Europe it is a practice for governments to have between 15 and 18 members. If we look at numbers, if we approach this issue from that point of view, then it is likely that in most EU countries it is regulated in this way, but there are different examples. The efficiency of the government, once again undermining, does not depend on the number of ministers or the number of ministries. For example, Hungary is a full member of the EU, and there are only eight ministries. As far as we're concerned, the government of the Republic of Serbia could function with six, eight or ten ministries. We think it would be important for the government to keep its pre-election promises, to do everything in the interest of getting candidate status for EU membership by the end of this year and to address those issues that we need to solve and which we haven't solved in the last ten years. And we should do it for Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not for the EU. The group also includes the law on restitution, and the law on public property, as well as the law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. When we talk about concrete solutions to the draft ministry law, I have to say that there are certain illogicalities. For example, we do not understand why and in the future there will be a Ministry of Kim. I'm not saying this because we in SVM don't respect the Constitution or we don't know what the Constitution says, but we need to bear in mind that in recent months and since the very formation of this government, all the affairs and responsibilities in relation to KIM have been carried out by the Foreign Ministry, as if it were some issue that is not the internal issue of the Republic of Serbia, as it stands in the Constitution, but that it is a matter of foreign policy. If KIM is the internal issue of the Republic of Serbia, then it should be handled by the KIM ministry, but it has not been the case for the last two or three years. Almost all jobs related to the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia were carried out by the foreign ministry. The best evidence is that the head of the negotiating team of the Republic of Serbia is not the KIM minister, but the State Secretary from the foreign ministry. Also, if there is already a reduction of ministries, then I don't know why it's more important, for example, to the Ministry of Youth and Sports from the Ministry of Science or the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We haven't heard an explanation from a proposing representative why, for example, the Ministry of Youth and Sports is necessary, and the Ministry of Science, for example, is not. I could say the same about the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. We, of course, have nothing against the existence of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, but we don't know why it's more important than the Ministry of Science. I think the promoter should have given some explanation on these issues. That is why I agree with certain opposition parliamentary groups that there should be a prime minister there, so that he gives us an answer to these questions, because perhaps the Minister of State Administration and local self-government is not authorized to answer these questions about the importance and necessity of the existence of certain ministries. There are, of course, illogicalities and the merger of certain resistors. For example, there is the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. That ministry will exist in the future. This ministry is known to have the worst results regarding the implementation of the EU Action Plan, and we are adding new responsibilities to the ministry regarding mining. If this ministry could not cope with its Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection responsibilities, how will it be able to cope with mining, besides these issues? This is the exact data - this ministry has shown the worst results regarding the Action Plan. When we talk about the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, I must say that our parliamentary group insisted in 2008 that this ministry be formed for several reasons. We believe that in a country that is extremely multinational, such as Serbia, there should be a Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. According to the latest 2002 census, 17% of citizens of the Republic of Serbia have declared themselves members of some national minority. In addition, the formation of the ministry was also important because there would be a ministry that is competent to propose a law on national minority councils and to organise the selection of these top cultural autonomy bodies of national minorities. It is therefore important that this ministry existed since 7 July 2008. We think it was better that this ministry survived and after this reconstruction of the government, which will follow the next days, but we will not insist that this ministry exists in the future. As I said at the beginning of my address, it is important for us to have political stability, to have the government fulfil its obligations and to gain EU membership candidate status by the end of the year. That is why we will not insist on the existence of this ministry. It would have been a different situation if the Law on National Councils had not been passed and no elections for these, for us, very important bodies. But on this point, I have to say that we have proposed a few amendments. It's essentially two amendments, but we had to follow that logic, so for technical reasons, we submitted a total of five amendments. One refers to the name of your ministry, Mr. Markovic. We propose that this ministry be called in the future – the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the state administration and local self-government. We think it would be a positive signal to members of the national minorities and we don't think anyone should have anything against this proposal. Moreover, the Constitution follows this logic. I will remind you, Mr. Minister, that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the area of human and minority rights is regulated by other parts of the Constitution, the issue of the state administration is regulated by the fifth and local self-government by the seventh. So if we go with the logic followed by the Constitution, then we think it's logical what we suggest. On the other hand, we have suggested that, in addition to our hopes, the name of the ministry will be changed within this ministry, the administration of human and minority rights as an authority of the ministry's administration. We think that would be significant. We wouldn't have a special ministry, but we would have a special administration within the ministry that would have certain independence. So it would not be reduced and demoted to sectoral level, but there would be human and minority rights administration. We propose that the ministry has competences in the field of general issues of the position of members of national minorities, as well as in the protection and promotion of human and minority rights, and that all other competences regarding these issues have a human and minority rights administration as a management body within the ministry. We don't think anyone should have anything against this solution. It is important that there is a administration that manages the National Council Register, which takes care of the exercise of the competence of national councils of national minorities and, ultimately, will be in charge and have the authority to organise elections for national councils. I will remind you that the elections for the National Council of the Bosniak National Minority await us. To sum up, we will support this law because we consider political stability to be first. We also do not believe that these are epochal things and we hope that these amendments will be accepted and that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government will be formed and there will be a special administration within the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. In the end, although we are not still discussing the names of new ministers and candidates for new ministerial posts today, I must say that with astonishment I read a few hours ago that the new Government of the Republic of Serbia will not have any members from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina from next week. Does this mean that in the territory of the APV, there is no man who is professional enough to be minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Some MPs are getting me, Madam President, that I forgot Mr. Dulic. Of course, I did not forget Mr. Dulic, but according to the official biography of Mr. Dulic at the government site of the Republic of Serbia – Dr. Oliver Dulic was born in Belgrade, Dr. Oliver Dulic lives in Belgrade. You can't tell by anything that he's from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's why I urge the Prime Minister to change this decision. It's a well-intentioned suggestion, not blackmail. We suggest that the prime minister consider whether it is okay that the government does not have any members of the AP Vojvodina territory in the form of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51136	Gentlemen, I will ask you, indeed, that we may be quieter, that we may hear an apostle speaking to us. I give my word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51137	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, might be best to keep quiet today, because that silence would actually be the most appropriate response to everything the ruling coalition has exposed us to, and certainly that, among other things, that silence is a better proposal than the one with which Prime Minister Mr. Markovic came to Parliament today. Mr. Markovic, you spoke for five or six minutes. Read the dry, administrative explanation of the government's initiative, which is just as offensive as anything the government has exposed us to. I want to tell you right now that we are not happy about the problems that follow the work of the government. Our country is in deep crisis. Responsibilities for the crisis cannot be exclusively linked to today's ruling coalition in Serbia, but the only ruling coalition in Serbia is responsible for the absence of responsibility in formulating a plan to be implemented by the country from the crisis. There is no, Mr. Markovic, the Serbian government to deal with itself. It is a key institution of this society, which should work in its interest, not in the interests of the parties that formed this institution. Our problems are much deeper, Mr. Markovic, than those you speak of justifying this initiative. What was the obstacle to effective government work? Minister of Telecommunications, Minister of Faith, Minister of Culture? Find one problem that shakes this society, and in which they appear to be actors of the crisis. The problem of our government is the wrong policy and the unwillingness of the ruling coalition's parties to take responsibility that follows the political debacle of authorities after three years of forming the government. It's about new energy, which will enter our society through the infrastructure you're establishing. The carriers of this new energy (producers, engines) are old people, those who are the reason for the reconstruction of the government that we are talking about and preparing to amend the Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government. Much more responsibility is needed, Mr. Markovic. Responsibility, courage and political honesty to tell society the truth, to admit mistakes, to look for partners to solve a deep crisis in our country. We are both political and economical and morally ruined society. This government has destroyed the political system, but our economic system is destroyed, both cultural and sports. All segments of our public life have been demoted. It's highly irresponsible in this way to react to everything we've witnessed in recent weeks. I must ask you, Mr. Markovic, how a serious man, and I consider you serious, can afford to justify such pointless provisions as the provision we see in the Government Act, which requires government ministers to represent government policy. That's extreme. The only thing worse than that is that you put a provision prohibiting ministers from pushing their fingers into electricity. Who can they represent if not the government whose ministers are? In the 21st century, ministers are forbidden to be anonymous sources of information. Well, plotting and intrigue are the themes of today's ruling coalition, the core of its policy. The plantations have so deeply compromised mutual relations in the ruling coalition, that you can't ask us to accept something like this and remain confident that we are normal people. We needed something else – the president who will talk between Athens and Tokyo about the crisis the country is in, the leaders of the ruling coalition that will come before the citizens and say together what they themselves say, ask those who know something and ask for help from those who can still help. No party, no government, no politicians who can solve this country's problems on their own. You shut us all out of it. That's our common problem today. We want an effective government. In addition to being politicians, we are citizens of this country, parents, our friends live around us. We are responsible, among other things, because we cannot influence the policy that is being implemented in Serbia. In the Ministry Act, you claim in one sentence that the government's work is being rationalised, the ministry's reduction, and in the next sentence you say that the newly formed ministries are taking over in their jurisdiction all the jobs done by the ministries that formally cease to exist. It is not true that the problem of the Serbian government was in the fact that there are twenty and I do not know how many ministers. The problem was the fact that the Serbian government is an usurped institution that is trying to preserve the institution's scenes by legally binding those who are its members to represent its interests, not the interests of the parties that formed it. Why didn't you change the prime minister? You humiliate the whole country by playing with that man's integrity. He's been our associate for years. We do not flee from his work at the Privatisation Agency, but it is shocking to this extent to humiliate our society by asking him to see in Mirko Cvetkovic what Mirko Cvetkovic cannot be because these parties do not allow him. Is your partner, Mr Markovic, from the ruling coalition right, when he described Mirko Cvetkovic two weeks ago in the language of political insults? If he's right, then you can't support such a person. If he's wrong, then he's bound to tell us who went that way, to say he was wrong. The country's exclusive cause of the crisis has disrupted your mutual relations, no political difference. You continue to pave this country. Give in to Kosovo, tighten in the rest of the region. You start talks with Pristina, you fight with Zagreb and Sarajevo. Command economy, command culture, command sport, mobilized athletes in a national representation that did nothing to make them successful. The senselessness and ultimately this law as a prelude to the reconstruction of a government in which very important businesses are transferred to those who were, as a rule, the causes of the major problems that followed the government's work. Find in Europe an orthopaedic that deals with urbanism and mining. Try to explain it to us. The most dysfunctional ministry in the past three years, and that's what a colleague from your ruling coalition told you, is Oliver Dulic's ministry. Explain to us the logic that exempts mining from the energy sector as the only energy available to our country since we sold oil and gas to the Russian state. This is not a government reconstruction that is the product of a reasonable finding that has come to an end and that something has to change to solve problems that can no longer be tolerated. This is a party flea market, which is a humiliation to you who participate in it, for those of us who view it and for every man in this country who is hostage so irresponsible, for us completely unacceptable behavior. We have submitted amendments to the Ministry Act. Two years ago, we proposed a government with 12 ministries, but not 12 ministries that will be formed by joining them with ministries that only remain without their title, but a government with 12 ministries of the country in which politics is withdrawn from the life it occupied and completely deformed. We, Mr. Markovic, have an Olympic committee, have sports alliances. Why do we need the Department of Sports? What did it do except on behalf of a party wall stadiums in Serbia? Well, someone's entitled to the stadium, someone's entitled to the pipeline, someone's got a deed to Kosovo and patriotism, and we don't have a country anymore. The last chance to come to your senses, open a dialogue in society, look for help where you will find it safely. In all the key jobs for this country, in the jobs you consider crucial to your orientation, we have supported you more than members of your ruling coalition. But the idea of running for EU membership can no longer be an excuse for everything we experience every day. This has become an imitation of life, which spends the country's European potential. A clear plan, an agenda, a prime minister speaking to us here in Parliament, not on television. You have to explain to us the reasons for some decisions. Why is the Ministry of Youth and Sports more important, for example, than technological development? Why is the Ministry of Energy divided? Which the Ministry of Energy was divided by one piece belonging to the orthopedic, and the other part to the most inefficient minister in the Republic government, who makes the wrong lane of the highway, which offends us with its pointless statements every day. One of the most correct ministers in your government was Minister Skundric. Every time he came to talk to the MPs, he answered every question we had. He lost that support, and on the other hand, a ministry that cannot exist, except in a politically compromised system like ours, is still expanding. No job has been done by the Ministry of Infrastructure, and in the meantime it has become responsible for energy. Explain to us how you intend to implement the Government Act. You can't use a game of words to cover up ambition that practically usurps the right that the Constitution belongs to this Parliament. Mr. Markovicu, we have chosen you, the Assembly has chosen you, and however much the Republic Secretariat for legislation is seeking some verbal acrobatics that would justify the possibility of usurping the rights that belongs exclusively to Parliament, through the right given to the Prime Minister to virtually replace the minister, it is unsustainable. That's unconstitutional. Parliament elects and Parliament replaces. You can't be a little bit of a minister or, as you said yourself, a minister who will be removed one day, but immediately loses his right to do his job. It wasn't Mirko Cvetkovic who gave him the right, it was this parliament. Many governments have been formed since 1990. None of them have proposed such pointless provisions. You don't trust each other. That's what you're saying in a member of the Government Act which you oblige government members to bring government policy to the public even if they don't agree with it. What does it look like in real life? Because of your party fights, you're destroying the country's most important projects. Montenegro has done its best to open a factory in Montenegro. Because of the argument whether it will be in the DS or G17, an extremely important business project has been compromised. On that basis, the government was crushed. Is Dinkic responsible for people who have lost their jobs, as the DS tells us? Will tomorrow after the DS government session have to say that Dinkic is not responsible for such a thing even though he thinks he is? So, citizens, by law, we have to tell you what we don't believe in -- that's the message of this government. In the 21st century, it cannot be prescribed by law, Mr. Markovic, courtesy and fine education. The intrigues and plots, I said it once, basically this government, are in its foundations. Daily tours – Dacic prime minister, replaced by Dinkic, comes this one, leaves second, until the last moment. You can't sanction something like that by law. A completely unnecessary intervention in the Government Act is the finding that the vice president may also be a minister. Well, he's been up to now. And so far, the vice president has been doing the ministerial work. So the Prime Minister can be a minister. What kind of message are we sending? I understand that in only one way – that there is no longer a man of fundamental ability in this country in the area of finance who is willing to take responsibility and enter into the government of the Republic of Serbia, so this job is taken over by the Prime Minister. Instead of running away from such bitter truths, you should go to events to meet and ask why. We are awaiting a debate on the reconstruction of the government. This is not an opportunity to talk about everything we would like to say in a conversation, in a dialogue, in the face of the people who lead this country, but I must tell you that there is no room left for any different attitude than open criticism, absolute condemnation of such irresponsible behaviour as we recognize in the initiatives set by the Government in the form of law. The ideas of an effective government are ideas that can always count on our support, but political microcry, avoiding responsibility, has the ability to be the topics for which you will find your conversation ready to support you. But they are the sources of our constant criticism. Instead of all this, the prime minister was necessary in Parliament with a plan to engage everything that is worth in this country in order to make it the way it can be. Since you don't have the strength for such a thing, we don't have to make up for it, and even if we wanted to, we couldn't because we really can't understand everything you're suggesting, in the first place. Once again, I suggest that you consider the amendments that we have submitted, accept these amendments and thus enable the process of internal reforms, which must continue in Serbia much more effectively than was the case until its total stalemate and blockade, for which you are solely responsible in the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51138	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51139	Thank you, President. Mr Jovanovic had a very broad discussion, although this is a discussion of the Law on Government and the Ministry Act. Well, it's perfectly understandable, there are also political topics that I assume will be reconsidered when the prime minister brings out the names, composition, plan and programme of work of the new government. The government law and the ministry law create assumptions about what will follow after the election of the new government. That's why I don't think it's really time to talk about building a stadium, about the work of the Ministry of Sports, about the work of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Infrastructure, or what Mr Jovanovic has already mentioned. So Mr Jovanovic had a comprehensive discussion concerning our political situation. I must note that this discussion was as if it were from a man who looked at it on the side, as if we, Mr Jovanovic, were not part of the same political process and were not all of these political parties sitting here, in fact, the creators of the political system in which we act and sometimes very persistently trying to defend just as it is. We can all criticise the system we live in and the system we work in, but I think that our criticism must contain that element or have a proper relationship with being the factors of that and that kind of system. What you have said is quite sincere and I think it is very fair, and that is why I want to repeat it – a situation that we can characterise in the way that each of us has perception in the Republic of Serbia is not due to the work of this government and only those most malicious can impute the present situation as a consequence of the work of this government. Serbia has been facing different difficulties, much greater, for the past two decades. However, what can be said to be the result of the government's work, that a very severe unfortunate crisis, which has practically hit the Republic of Serbia as well as the whole world since the first day of this government, has, in my opinion, managed to overcome the measure. But let it be a conversation when the Prime Minister arrives. I also think that your relationship with the Prime Minister is, normally, the position of the opposition MP, the leader of the opposition party, but let's say, I can say that, in my deep confidence, the Prime Minister is the most suitable person for exactly the political opportunities that we are in today and all this time. I think the Prime Minister, we know that those of us who work with him, have indeed shown a high degree of understanding and tolerance for what you have described in some way in your presentation, and these are different attitudes and a desire for attitudes to be expressed publicly, often incomprehension and intolerance to differing attitudes and different thoughts within the government. Sometimes it seems to me, frankly, to tell you, Mr Jovanovic, that politeness, a culture in political conduct and the calmness of a politician sometimes in Serbia is seen as a weakness. There is always a prototype of politicians who have to slap their hands on a table and it is reportedly going to solve all the problems in Serbia. I'm just thinking the other way around. I think in these very sensitive times, the very personality of the Prime Minister has helped the government achieve the results it has achieved. We who can be characterized as good, you as bad, not to go into it now, but simply the ruling coalition has defined itself as Prime Minister and I think it was a very good decision at that point, as I think it is good for the Prime Minister to continue to run the government in these difficult times. What is undeniable is that Mirko Cvetkovic is indeed one of the leading economic experts in our country, with a great sense of political and economic flows in the country and the environment, and therefore his role is particularly valuable. I think the most important task of the government that will be formed after the adoption of this Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government is precisely the successful completion of the process of our many-year, decade-long drive to become candidates for EU membership. I think it's something that our public expects us to do, and I don't think there's a bigger task at this point in time than our political scene. Except for those who, of course, are against it, which is also a completely legitimate position, have the right to do so. On a few occasions, you specifically referred to what was contained in the Government Act. I have to say that those provisions that apply to what you've said -- nice education, I totally agree with you -- that's a question of education and culture, but the provisions that apply to that may be precisely the result of the political life and the political culture in which we all live and that we created ourselves. We're not forced by someone else by the political culture that we live in. We're all actors of that, sometimes in power, sometimes in opposition. What is now in the Government Act was in the Government's Rules of Procedure. Let it stand in the Government Act now, let it be more transparent, let it be clearer, let everyone feel... If they don't already have inner feelings, let them feel like the pressure of the law to act the way you say it well, the way a well-behaved man behaves. As for these provisions regarding the termination of the term of office, you know that the government is elected in Serbia, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, and of course is elected by the National Assembly. In my view, it is a completely undeniable provision, which otherwise stood until two years ago in the Law on Government, which states that until the decision of the National Assembly, which makes the final decision at the first next session, the minister for whom the Prime Minister has applied for a resolution does not really carry out that function. It's both normal and natural and quite functional to me. Also, I would remind you, I may have left out in the opening presentation, which I read simply to save time, in the Ministry Act, among other things, the supervision of the work of special organisations, which is not interesting to the public, but was a very important element for the functioning of the government, for a functional system. Therefore, I do not want to open a wide political debate on the subject that is now on the agenda. So, I'll be back. The topic on the agenda today is the creation of a legal framework within which the government will be able to implement some of its programmes. Let's hear that program and discuss it. If the goal is to discuss the government's work so far, it will be an opportunity when there is a prime minister. In the end, one interesting thing is happening to us. For a time, the most important issue in Serbia was that we had the most massive government, so there were comparisons with the country's government, that country, the government of China, etc., quite flat-rate. Now, when we have the smallest number of resistors (I say again, when you take the display backwards, and this decade but probably since World War II), it's suddenly not a topic, it's total demagogy. Although I agree that in the whole story of government cuts, about this alleged size of administration, of course, there's a lot of demagogy, but how is that suddenly ignored? I think it's really great that we have a proposal from just 17 ministries. I repeat, only in 2004, it was 17, but then we had five federals. So, I think that's good. To bid further, whether 12 or whether a ministry is more important than another, neither the Ministry Act nor the government's composition can be anything but the result of political relations. It's so logical and natural. Nor was the original composition of the government such that it was identified as the best possible by an independent authority. It's just a matter of political relations. So it has been in all governments so far, so it will be in all governments in the future. Because some MPs must vote the government, and the emissaries belong to different political options. If you don't have 126, you can't have a government. Therefore, although the criticism of the multi-party system itself is generally, in my view, always welcome and justified, it is not right to... through this criticism of reality, the inevitability of the multipartial system – and the better there is no one yet, no one has invented it – actually criticises the current government that is trying to do something and, in my deep confidence, works in one way that, on the occasions in which the government is located, in which our society is really the best possible. [[Applause]] It is not disputed to provide an alternative, but it is not enough, Mr Jovanovic, to say – the alternative is a twist. That twist must have some content, we need to know what a concrete alternative is. The remark was – stadiums are being built. Okay, shouldn't stadiums be built? We need to be very specific. The mention of Kosovo, our environment, these are quite important issues and must be given a rather concrete answer if we offer an alternative. So the easiest thing to say is – we need a change, we need a twist. All right, but offer the content of that change or, in the end, let's be correct about the analysis of the existing state, to give that alternative. If we don't cover an extremely objectively existing situation first, then we can't even tell what an alternative to an existing state is. Normally, we perform here as politicians and you as, undeniably, the leader of a political party, and I have a full understanding of the political speech you've given, and it was my desire to look at it this way anyway. At the very least, the opportunity will be in a few days, when the prime minister, based on this legal framework that we are now getting and which is an assumption of the programme he will present, sets out his programme. At that time, it is perfectly normal for each of the MPs and each parliamentary group to make a statement about the programme, to make remarks, suggestions, and I believe that it will be a very good debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51140	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51141	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Markovic, first of all, obviously affects this law that you are forced to defend, so it is sometimes very difficult to follow. I think the fundamental problem is actually in your reconciliation, which you accept the logic of your relationships within the ruling coalition as a logic that needs to be subordinated to social relations. It is true that it is necessary to make an agreement within the ruling coalition, but excuse me, don't expect us living in this country to accept the logic of a fully disoriented coalition as a rule by which we should live in the future. That's our problem, Mr. Markovic. In this country, there is a crisis and there are different statistics, but one of the data -- without a job, there are 250,000 people left in the private sector, has publicly increased the number of employees by 6,000. If you're talking about the economic government, then this isn't an economic government. How much did the previous government cost? How much is this one? Get us that information. How did we find that the government would be cheaper and more economical by assigning mining to spatial planning and energy to infrastructure? How did we determine that faiths should be attached to the diaspora and that such things are cheaper than attaching them to the diaspora of faith? It is clear that what you have brought to us here is a political Frankenstein ruling coalition that has dealt much more with each other's relations and a state of affairs in which it is located than the state of society, and the government needs to deal with society, not itself. That's the problem. We've been very clear. When we talk about the government, then the price of your policy, Mr Markovic, is depressing, disoriented Serbia, deadened potential, threatened not only by the state in which it is located, but also by the fact that those who need to lead it out of that state do not, but are making it worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51142	Two minutes. Thank you. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51143	I can't agree with you when you say that the reduction in the number of ministries is not savings, for the simple reason that the way you're going to group the affairs of the state administration can be more or less effective. If you're grouping up the affairs of the state administration, by the very logic of things, there's one part of the jobs that are of common character. So if you come to a merger at this moment of any two ministries, you will automatically create a space for savings through the cabinet itself, through part of the affairs of the state administration that are common to all ministries. It's just that it makes sense that you have savings. No one can say you have no savings. As for the logic of joining ministries, there's always some logic of joining ministries, there's no dilemma. With us, that logic is even pretty good. If I'm not mistaken, there was an interior ministry in Germany, including sports. It wasn't called the interior and sports ministry, but it carried out the tasks of the state administration relating to sport. And Germany, undeniably, is a country with developed democracy and can't be said to be wrong there. I wish our country was working the way their country works. Therefore, the logic of the merger of the state administration's affairs is the most common compromise between the related state administration and political relations, the circumstances that determine the composition of each government, and the appearance of the ministries, or the authorities of the state administration. In that sense, I cannot agree with this observation of yours. As for your view of reality and reality in Serbia, no one here escapes reality. We know it's hard, but let's see what it offers as a change of condition. So, what is the particular mistake of this government that should be corrected? The prime minister will come and we'll talk. I don't think there's anything going on here. But let's not ignore the fact that most of the parties that are sitting here in this society, in the government, in the executive government, have created this country's policy and that the results that we have today have. Here again I return to what you have said very nicely – the state in which Serbia is located is not polite to impute to a government that is now current. The legacy of our past is disastrous. If someone thinks that this government is not doing well with everything that's in front of it, then that one has to come up with a plan and say, this is our alternative, this is our ideology, this is our idea. Some here have very clear ideologies. Some believe that the path to Europe is the wrong way, that a manual should be withdrawn and left. Here they come, yelling - that's right. It's just that we have a different view of it and it's not disputed to have different opinions, but when we analyze the situation in society, I think it can be analysed in a far more objective way than it is now. I think that many segments of our society have been significantly improved in the last two years despite the crisis we've been in. But there's no dilemma, there's going to be a Prime Minister here, there's going to be all kinds of thinking. He will draw up a plan for this new, reconstructed government. There will be candidates for ministers. We'll see who the men who are candidates for ministers are. These people also have their own thoughts and certain plans to continue working in the context of resolutions entrusted to them. At the very least, very quickly, next year's election. We'll see what our results are. It's perfectly legitimate that everyone criticises it or defends it. I'm going back to that main topic again. The aim of this society, which we cannot really question, is that none of us should question, and I very much respect the position represented by your party – that is EU candidacy. This adaptation, the embezzlement of our system, is a condition for the better lives of the people who live here. It's a condition for all of us to live in a normal society. But again, it is a question for all of you here and for those who, today and today, look with regret, say, at something that is going on under the pressure of the EU -- why are we so strongly resisting some changes that are necessary? Why did we fight so hard to lift some blank resignations? Well, they don't just end, the order works. No, it's for a better political system. That, of course, is not directed to the LDP, far from it, I speak in general. But every one of us kind of likes to get out of a position where we're all together, like we're all in a gallery, at a theater, and then, like, I'm not a player on the ground, I'm looking at it all on the side, and now I'm going to bring out a broad sal of criticism about what's going on, and then I'm going to mix everything and everything and it's going to sound nice. So, I fully respect your position and the policy you're leading, but I think the criticism you've given is to a good degree of flat-rate character, and I can't accept these assessments that relate to the government's reduction to 17 resors, the reduction of the number of special organizations, the fact that this is the smallest number of resors Serbia has had since 1946, and... I think the first government of the Kingdom of SHS had 17 resors, already historians know better, and I think even my colleague knows better than I do. But basically, I think by yesterday, the fact that we've got the resources has been attacked, and this is also for some commendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51144	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, replica, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51145	There's nothing casual about it, Mr. Markovic, in what I'm trying to explain to you. I was quoting a sentence from the reasoning of the law you're defending. All ministries, which are abolished by this law and those set up, will remain and continue to carry out tasks under the established competences of the ministries that cease to operate. That's a fact. We've offered you an alternative. You know what the twist is? In coming to this session with a proposal for a government law that we submitted two years ago -- not 12 ministries that were created by joining those that were incompatible, but by giving up jobs in which there is nothing to look for, leaving the concept of public companies that are party registers, withdrawing from the sphere of social life in which only causes damage. It's a demonstration of the party state. And what you suggested to us, Mr. Markovic, is with one democratic order, because this law is in fact a legal requirement for us to accept the logic of the ruling coalition and as the logic by which we should regulate our lives. It's a very simple explanation to offer. The price of your government so far is the price this society, and no longer the ruling coalition, can pay. Not because there's no money for something like that, but because no one believes in a failed policy. This reconstruction has become its own purpose, as has this reform of the government's internal organisation, which removes the tables, and everything else remains in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51146	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51147	The transitional regime in the Ministry Act is a transitional regime that existed in every ministry law. It's impossible that you don't have a transitional mode. It is impossible not to write who takes over the existing archive, employees, equipment, etc., and then within 30 days to systematize and thus, in fact, group jobs and achieves a reduction effect in the number of employees, cabinets, etc. It's simply a transitional regime and it shouldn't be the subject of our discussion. There was never a ministry law that had no transitional regime. It must be determined which authority, when one authority ceases to exist, will take over those tasks of the state administration regarding that transitional part.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51148	The word has Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51149	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I would like to talk about a problem that has appeared here, about an extremely many replicas of Mr. Minister, which leads to those most persistent, who want to see this, certainly changing the program if you, Mr. Minister, continue at that pace to answer some questions that are being asked. Secondly, today I was extremely disappointed to see that there were no prime ministers in the hall, who addressed Serbian citizens and said that he had made some important decisions and read those decisions. To talk about this subject without the Prime Minister, who is the creator of this idea, at least that's what he said publicly, doesn't make sense. He sent someone to do the job, a minister who, for example, He's not even in charge of what happened, to explain to us that since the election of the new government, ministers can't speak publicly the way it's done so far, that they have to have their tutors or go somewhere to say something, to censor it and open it. We're going back to some dark times. It is a shame that today, in the 21st century, in the Serbian Parliament, we are passing such a law on government where someone will have to take an opinion, to determine who it is that can say, what it can say, and when it can say. Therefore, gentlemen of the Ministers of some future government, which we will choose from one of your majority, you have allowed such a thing, to sit in government and not have the opportunity to say what you think and to publicly appear and state your opinion. Secondly, today, at a difficult moment for Serbia, in a situation that is extremely difficult, at the beginning of the construction season that starts in 15 days, at the beginning of a seed that starts in 30 days, we found that we are doing a reconstruction of the government, that, as Mr. Minister said, we are making the smallest government in Serbia's history (it is not true that the smallest in Serbia's history). I was in a government that was smaller than three members. She had one vice president, not four. ) to carry out some reluctances that will mean something to Serbia, to move some ministers. I don't know if anyone in Serbia knows what they were doing. We've debated here many times, I've repeated countless times that there's no Ministry of the NIP anywhere in the world. That's what I've said a hundred times, and that's why I've been interrupted several times, and they've explained to me how it's necessary. Now we're going to remove the minister, the NIP to shut down and some we've removed, declared them maltenes, so I've concluded in my opinion that the prime minister has delivered, for some vermin in the government that need to be removed, and now you're sitting in this parliament and voting for what the prime minister is saying and supporting the government that expelled them and replaced them. Where's the morale? Where's the dignity? Where's the face of some people? Now we're gonna change the company, we're not gonna call ourselves this again, we're gonna change the name, and then we're gonna change the name again. You kept repeating, gentlemen of the government, and saying that the key things in Serbia - number one agriculture, number two energies, number three construction, travel economy, etc. Now it's not that important, it can be a whisper to join a ministry, but more important than that is the Ministry of Kosovo that does nothing (the minister needs to come here once and say what he's been doing in the last three years) or someone else, third, etc. A ministry that didn't do anything either, and these key ministries are going to connect and attach somewhere. Separate energy and mining? Well, imagine, gentlemen, you will now have copies in the Colubara which will be in one ministry and, when that coal is loaded, enters the other ministry, because you now have energy in the other ministry, so you will have two ministries to negotiate, etc. And that's a great success for you, it's a very important thing for you to do, and at the beginning of the construction season, which starts in 15 days, you don't have any serious project, financially closed, that's going to start working. April's coming in a few days. What are you doing? This is your fourth construction season. Three construction seasons warmed up, prepared, practiced. We expected you to do something in this quarter. But in this fourth, you want us to pass the government law, then the ministry law, and then we'll appoint and choose the government, and then we'll rebalance the budget for the new government, and we'll play at one key point, when everything should be ready. At least that's how I listened to the winter, when you announced, gentlemen of the ministers from this Cvetkovic government, that they would start in March all full of steam -- four highways, 5,000 apartments in Belgrade, thousands of apartments across Serbia, agriculture only to start, everything is like a stuck rifle. Now you want a reconstruction and you're going into it. Work, that's your problem. It's the best campaign for us from the opposition. Instead of doing, to hire people, to make subsidies to sow in Serbia, to have what to reap to eat, to survive these difficult days, you are now discussing something that we should have done maybe two years ago. Where in the election year (you came to an end, this is an election year) do things like this? But it's good for us. And you, Mr. Minister, just talk more. I'd let you talk all day in Parliament, and we'd shut up and applaud like we just did. That would be ideal. There's nothing better. That's all. We don't need to say anything, you say everything. And we'd be happy to have Mr. Cvetkovic, the prime minister, do the same when he arrives. Yes, and he also continued a story that we had come out of the crisis, that in Serbia we were living well. One of the ministers criticized him. I think the criticism was in place, no matter how much I don't support that minister. But the man criticized him and he kicked him out of the government. Imagine now what kind of tandem in the new government Dusko Petrovic will be called Shana and Dulic. It's going to be a dream tandem, a phenomenal government. What do you think of this government to do? It is very unfortunate that we in one serious parliament want to deal with some serious issues, and you all impose on us some issues that lead us astray. I liked to hear today what the new ministers promised, which projects provided, where the funds came from, when they're going to go, how many people we're going to hire, how we're going to get close to the European Union with this kind of unemployment, with this kind of corruption. We bring those most corrupt in politics to the government. Gentlemen, what's this about? What is your goal and what do you think? Is someone so underestimated by agriculture, which is impacting, as we said, to attach it to the store? Has anyone underestimated energy, mining, what life means for Serbia, and construction? I expected you to do your shift first here in construction, to start, give an injection to some new people who are going to operate. Of course, however, none of it has anything to do with it. I would wonder if Serbia even has a prime minister, whether this government has a prime minister and where the prime minister is when such important matters are discussed. The prime minister is somewhere, and he might show up sometime, he'll have two minutes and 15 seconds' worth of exposés, just like before. Look, the prime minister comes out to Parliament and talks for two minutes and 15 seconds, and we get hope of what we're going to do in the next season, and he tells us, at the beginning of the assembly session for this year. So it's all non-serious and I really want it to be elections as soon as possible and that this government realizes that there are no more ideas, that there is no more power, that there is no more unity in it, that there is no harmony and that there is nothing you can do. If it wasn't for that Krkobabic, I don't know what you'd be doing. He's calming you down there, I guess, what he's doing to you. He's an experienced man, so he's doing great. I think now we're wasting our time discussing these problems at the beginning of the construction and agricultural season, when the people expected to finally start and meet the Prime Minister's announcement that it was all over and that it would all go away, that the crisis had passed. I repeat, this is your fourth construction season, fourth season in agriculture. How did you get ready for that strike season? Not at all. With fights, dirty laundry, all kinds of affairs. And you are now coming to Parliament to make it official, to say -- here, we are giving you the smallest government in Serbia's history. That's not true. You've put up with this government so you don't have a fight. What did we get by making Kalanović an adventure? The woman has advanced, becomes Deputy Prime Minister and is moving her cabinet to the post of vice president. I don't see how we got anything special here. Tell me how many state secretaries you've reduced in this new government you're proposing, how many ministerial assistants, how many different services, how many agencies. No one. He's leaving the minister to be ambassador and the solution is over. The entire ministry connects, everything remains the same, the officials remain the same (of course, that people don't lose their jobs), and that's how it's going to be. Therefore, I see no reason for such insecureness, that in the election year, before the beginning of the full season, which is announced pompously, where everything is said to go about Serbia from work, from employment, etc., we are entering into these stories that are now necessary to perform and waste time. Gentlemen, April and May, after the annual vacation of three months, comes autumn and what do you think after? Elections are necessary and regular choices down there. And the fact that maybe the people will force you into early elections, that's what we'll see. I expected now, at the beginning of the season, to see how much funding was provided for corridors, for large projects, for employment. No projects are secured, no credit lines are secured. When do you think you can put up a tender? You said you were selling Telecom, you're opening tenders. When are you going to do them? You think you'll rule for 20 years? You want to be like Gaddafi and Mubarak? Well, he can't, people. You see, it can't, it's running out of time. Time worked for you, and now time is working against you. The closer you get to the election, the more you panic, the more desperate you don't know what you're going to do. Now you're changing Peru, Ziku and bringing Mike. Like that's important. I mean, it's really sad what you're doing. Dinkic was good for you for three years, he was your feather. It's not good for you today, it's coming to Parliament. Of course, he never wanted to come here as a minister. Now we'll have a chance to hang out with him. It's all weird and funny. The reforms of the judiciary have been done, these in the EU say – nothing is good, all since the beginning. Everything you've done has to come from the beginning. I don't want to talk about this in health care. I don't know how you think you're going with the new minister to get out of health problems? I haven't seen any shifts here, that anyone has made any suggestions, that someone will be responsible for two burning hospitals, that someone will be responsible for those vaccines, for the drugs, for this oncology thing that happened, etc. Health care is in the biggest problems in Serbia's history, and now we don't know what to do. And agriculture doesn't even have to be mentioned. The villagers have given up on you and they do not view this government as serious, nor will they take seriously the change by bringing in a new minister, etc. You sold the chain of trade, i.e. Miskovic sold it, and of course now the goods from the EU are going to go to the foreigners, and we will have a stream of foreign goods, agricultural products, because there are subsidies in agriculture. And how is our farmer with a bag of artificial fertilizer, which is currently costing 2,300 dinars, going out and being competitive to someone who has subsidies in Europe? How is 120-125 dinar oil going to be competitive? Never. Do you know that a bag of artificial fertilizer is two acres of forest land? Did you know that for two bags of fertilizer, you can buy a four-pread salary for a house in the heart of the Woodland? For two bags of fertilizer. Guys, are you out of your mind? Raised Victoria Group prices to the balk. Who's this Victoria Group? I'd like you to explain that to us one day. Who's your Inter-Poper and, I don't know, some firms? Who is this firm that got you jobs, so I don't count those five thousand apartments? Whose firm are these? Where's that "Sugar" guy who bought candy for one dollar, and now he buys the whole Sugar Cup? He bought the building of a former Central Committee for depravity and now he's gathering you in Kopalnik to teach you how to work. And you happy, "Sugar" gathered you together, gathered you all up nicely, then skied, so you play, so you have parties, and you play. Are you guys crazy? I'm asking if you're normal. Seriously, where did you find him? If I didn't have a longer story, I'd have a lot more to tell you, but we're with this government, and we're getting further away from the EU. And we will never enter, if we behave like this, into the EU. I want to come in tomorrow, I'd be happy, but there's got to be a new government, new people, a new organization. And a new little government, my minister, operational, from people who know work, from people who will do it right, quality and good. Of course, when such a government arrives, Serbia will take a big rise. I hope that's what I'm convinced of. Of course, that government will be for Europe's Serbia too, and don't make that name dirty and muddy. You've abused him a lot. Europe has nothing to do with you. So it's a dead end, as our people say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51150	The word is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51151	Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, this whole process, so-called. The reconstructions, which we are witnessing and led by you, in fact led Serbia to become, quite certainly, the most unserious state in Europe right now. Once in a serious business, this government, which is the generator of every crisis in Serbia, has approached extremely unseriously and, of course, as in everything it does, it does it in a special, unique way, that no one has done it before in Serbia or in Europe. This is the first power, and the first government, and the first prime minister to propose a new law on the ministries without the adoption of the law implying the choice of a new government. The first government in which the new ministry law does not change the prime minister, but the prime minister wants to change ministers. This is an example of a serious crisis within the government and the serious process of collapse of the institution made by this ruling majority. Of course, this is the beginning of the collapse of the government as an institution. During this government, there has been the most possible regression of the state and collapse of institutions in Serbia. From the judiciary, which I do not need to talk about here – the entire reform of the judiciary was initially condemned to failure, and the situation in which the judiciary is now saying that citizens have the lowest level of confidence in it at this point. The Assembly – the amendments of the Rules of Procedure have brought so far that we still need not to talk about amendments or to make any more serious and broad discussion known as warnings. The situation in the military -- the biggest success is that NATO representatives said it was in line with NATO standards. The situation in the Constitutional Court, an important institution -- the president of the court does not want to run again and a new president of the court has barely been elected. And a number of other institutions, the adoption of the Statute of Vojvodina, the announcement of regionalisation, the abandonment of a policy that in all ways sought to preserve state integrity when it comes to KIM, the withdrawal of institutions from Kosovo... So, the collapse of all institutions. The highlight of all this is now the destruction and destruction of the RS government. Mr. Minister, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic went to the National Assembly in July 2008 and offered the government concept, following the adoption of the Ministry Act, convincing us that it was the best and most effective government at the moment that could be chosen in the National Assembly. The same prime minister convinces us after three years that it was not a good solution for 24 ministries, but rather 17 ministries. The same man who got the support three years ago. We haven't heard from you here, Mr. Minister (it would have been better if we had heard from the Prime Minister) what changed in those three years, so that the government and that government, and that number of ministers described here as optimal, best, now too big, and should be reduced. Mr. Minister, we haven't heard from you what the point is and what the goals of these organizational changes are. Explain to us what is the essence of abolishing individual ministries and joining other ministries. Be honest and say it's a political settlement within the government, and we'd understand that, just don't bureaucratically explain that it's a merger of similar or the same resistors, because that's not true. It contradicts the common sense of anyone who looks at you here to combine mining and environmental protection and spatial planning. We didn't get an answer from you on this question. Mr. Minister, the way you're conducting this whole so-called reconstruction process is like you looking for solutions in the government for already elected personnel, not having a clear concept of how to look at the government, and then defining who are the best personnel for those ministries. This is a typical example of a party settlement without any plan and goal of why such a significant change is taking place a year before the election. We've heard here from you that this government will be more effective, that it will be better in terms of and solving problems and policy-making and law-making. I would like to get an answer from you as to how a highly important sector such as energy, which has never, ever, since the introduction of a multi-party in Serbia, been demoted in this way. There was always the Ministry of Energy. There was always the Ministry of Faith, which you are now abolishing. You're the first authority to abolish those ministries. Now you're going to tell me that the new minister, as the prime minister announced today, Mr Dulic, will have special attention and special focus on mining issues and that this one, now small sector in the large ministry will be treated in such a way as to realise all those issues and that policy that the government has outlined. Mr. Minister, the issue of national minorities has been mentioned here. So far, national minorities had a ministry, had a minister, a higher political level over which they could solve problems. There have been huge problems in the ministry, but you, as the government, do not solve problems in one ministry by removing the minister, but by abolishing the ministry. I have never heard of this happening in any serious state – that, when the minister is wrong, the ministry is abolished. Now, instead of a minister, we will have one assistant in your ministry for representatives of national minorities. You are now saying that with due attention, with great respect, in the same way and in the same extent, the problems of national minorities and human rights as while the ministry existed. It is really hard to believe, and it is really hard to believe, in addition to the jobs you have, plus the head of the South Serbian Coordination Centre, that you will deal with the issue. There's going to be some kind of aide involved, and he's going to run a sector in your ministry. The key problem that will arise is the issue of coordination. We've been listening from representatives of the ruling coalition here before the crisis itself that the problem is coordination. Coordination was a huge problem. You had a prime minister who had no political authority, no political authority because he was not in his party, and he had within his government as vice presidents of the ruling coalition. This man could not have authority, by nature of things, and his cabinet could not have been a place to define politics and solve problems and coordinate between ministries. In a debate over the 2008 exposé of Mirko Cvetkovic in the National Assembly, I said government policy and co-ordination would be moved from Germany to Andric's wreath. And that is the essence of the situation in Serbia today -- the key government policy is not run in Germany, but in the Serbian presidency. And that, at the same time, is the cause of all problems and turbulence within the government. Political power cannot be removed from such a large and important body as the Government and transferred to another location and tried to solve political problems there. But that is the consequence when you have a president of the Republic who is party leader and weak prime minister, who has no party function, from that same party. This man simply has no authority to make political decisions. That coordination is going to increase drastically. First, this man takes over a serious portfolio, a portfolio of finance. He didn't do coordination anyway, because he didn't have time, and now he still has to run an important portfolio like finance. At the same time, in addition to the problem of co-ordination between the ministries, there will be a huge problem of coordination within these giant ministries that you are building, the Ministry of Infrastructure or this Dulic. Who will now connect all these different resistors that are completely unnaturally placed there? Mr Minister, none of the principles on which the ministries known in Europe are formed, so-called Resort principle, where administrative areas are placed in one resistor by similarity, is not applied here. This is a typical example of everything wrong with that. We have not received any answer from you as to how and how these resolutions are connected within these ministries. Give us that answer. What connected spatial planning and mining? Culture and telecommunications? What's the connection between those restors? Faith and diaspora? It is not possible that believing Serbs are only in the diaspora. We didn't get any explanation why you approached it. We are now entering the second argument that you have made here, which is that this government, after the reconstruction and adoption of this law, will be the government that will make savings. Mr. Minister, that's simply not true and you know it very well. After the adoption of this law follows a number of serious and large businesses to round up the system of this government that will now be chosen – the rules on systemization, the appointment of state secretaries, the appointment of ministerial assistants... What will you name the assistant ministers? These new ministries are now special legal entities. You can't leave the same assistants, they have to be named new. Mr. Minister, you know very well that, under the Civil Service Act, it is no longer possible, after 1 January, to politically appoint assistants. How are you going to put these assistants now? First, can you tell the National Assembly that they won't be put up politically, I'd like to hear it from you, and I shouldn't, because the law forbids it, and if you respect the law, the entire competition process takes four or five months. To round up what you're doing, the whole job takes four or five months. Will this whole process take place by keeping the same number of secretary of state, which was now 69? What Velimir Ilic said was absolutely true. The smallest government was the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, where the majority of the DSS, where there were 17 ministries, the prime minister and deputy prime minister. It was the smallest government that had 21 members. Your government was the largest government in Europe. And that's true. If you don't think so, I'd like you to tell me that's not true. Therefore, the job of appointing assistants and state secretaries will continue, and of course, it will depend on the whole process that follows, which is the adoption of a systematization rule and everything that follows. Can you say here, since we're talking about saving, that the current secretary of state in the ministries that are joining will not remain State Secretary or will not remain in that number? Because that would be a statement that the government would be even more thrifty. Can you say that all agencies that exist within the Ministry of Energy will not remain or will be abolished or will join the Ministry of Infrastructure? These are the questions when we talk about aspects of savings. Not to mention, the ministerial assistants who now, after January 1st, have hundreds of people in positions, are in fact "executing the post at the end of the term". Minister, you know that very well. Here's a question -- did one person in a position, let's say Borko Stefanovic, who holds some negotiations, end his term as political director of the foreign ministry after 1 January? Is he in a legal position now? There's a lot of faces like that in the government. Mr. Minister, we're talking about savings. I would like to hear, now that it is announced as its own message, the demagogue message of the ruling coalition that we are now receiving savings, let's see what this authority has done under the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, which has been pompously announced here as the beginning of savings and savings in the state administration. I'd like specifically from you to get the information on how low the number of employees in the state administration is and what was saved after the law was passed. The law was passed in autumn 2009, a year and a half ago. If you don't answer that question, why would the citizens believe that now you'll be saving something if under the law that you've all deliberately defended hasn't anything been done about it? You, as a resolute minister, should give us an answer to that question, and that is very important that we hear from you. It's an agency issue. You mentioned here in the statement that one number of business organizations has been reduced, but we haven't heard what you're going to do with all those other bodies that belong to the government. It's just that the rest is hanging. In addition to the fact that the number of ministries is reduced, that certain resolutions are being merged, and you have declared it a savings, we are not having any other aspect, and you, as Minister of State Administration, would be authorized to tell us that, we haven't heard from you. But the fundamental problem that we need to define here is why all of this is done. We haven't heard any answers from you, but it's really clear to the citizens – there's a political message that this government wants in the economic crisis to save something. That's not true. This government will cause far more costs, as has caused countless political problems and countless political crises that have shaken Serbia and that Serbia cannot solve today. All the policy that you have led, which your government has led, has been a policy of reverse with regard to the situation that was in the previous period – and when it comes to state policy, and when it comes to defending territorial integrity, and when it comes to democratic processes, and when it comes to the general state of the economy. Those are the results. You can't say that everything is caused by an economic crisis. It is not the adoption of the Information Act that is caused by the economic crisis. There are no changes to the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly caused by the economic crisis. It is not a capitulation in the United Nations on the issue of Kosovo politics caused by the economic crisis on September 9th. It's the way you act and how you think as a ruling coalition. The logical consequence is that we are in a situation that a year before the election, I will repeat it once again, the Prime Minister has for the first time in history passed a new law on ministries without the election of a new government and a new Prime Minister. This has not happened since the introduction of a multi-party in Serbia, and we have not been given an explanation of why this is happening. The only way, Mr. Minister, is to withdraw this law first, and also the Government Act, which is scandalous. What you wrote in the Government Act, to get away from it, is not legal matter. I don't know who forced you to write and defend here that the ministers commit themselves in a uniform manner, prior to consulting someone, to communicate with the public. I think it's a shame that Serbia has such a law. Second thing, change around the secretary general. This norm that was in the Government Act so far was excellent. Obviously, you want to change the current secretary general, and you want to preserve her honor, you don't force her to resign, you want to resolve her, so you're going to choose a new secretary and he's going to replace her. Explain why this provision changed in the Government Act. It was enough that after the resignation or termination of the government's term of office, the secretary general would cease. Mr. Minister, withdraw this law. The only way to solve this problem is for this government to resign, not to "blame" ourselves, to go to elections, to choose a new, quality government, which will make a new concept of state policy and correct everything you've done, and it will be difficult to change what you've done. Of course, by handling Serbia's interests primarily, not what you consider Serbia's only interest – the EU at this point. The EU is not ahead of Serbia, but rather Serbia is above all. And after that, we can see what's in Serbia's interest, so if it is the EU, we can talk, and if it isn't, we don't want to go there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51152	Eighteen minutes and 45 seconds the time of the authorised representative has been used. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51153	I would refer to the parts of the discussion on these bill proposals, and I hope that all other aspects will be considered when the new government and members of the new government are proposed. I have to tell my colleague Palalic that I disagree with what he said, and I'm going to start from this last thing he said, as far as the Secretary General is concerned. No shift is being made, as far as I know, and I don't think there's any reason for that because we have a very good secretary general, and I think he's doing a good job. This is about the Ministry Act and the Government Act bringing in a lot of logical newspapers that were missing and it has been observed in practice that they are missing. For example, the government secretary's term of office ends with the Prime Minister's term of office - so far. Since he's a functioner and you don't have anywhere, in any law, provisions that define his obligation to work afterwards, until the election of the new Secretary General, he was able to pack and go home on the same day. On the other hand, in the Law on the National Assembly, this is far better normised, and the secretary of the National Assembly is scheduled to perform his duties, namely his term of office until the election of the new secretary of the Assembly. I think it's a smarter and better solution, and in that sense, I think the government should have the same solution. I think it's very good and logical, because of continuity. The services should also function in this provision, meanwhile, until the new Prime Minister arrives, and that is why I think this is a perfectly normal solution. And then the Prime Minister can ask for a new secretary to be appointed that day in two, five or ten days, but there's no dilemma, no vacuum and no dispute over who's going to do the job. So this is a natural and functional solution and it has nothing to do with politics, and it's a shame that it hasn't been introduced before. As for the number of resistors, that's exactly what I was talking about. This is a government with the least resources and special organizations. I don't think since World War II there has been such a small number of resistors at the republican and federal level that have been uniting the affairs of the state administration, which are now being carried out on a single level - a republican. The government of Vojislav Kostunica since 2004, has had 17 resors and ten special organisations, the government has 17 resors and nine special organisations, but unlike 2004, there are no federal resolutions. When we say that something unserious, the most unserious things, if we talk about the matter we're talking about now, were when we had a foreign minister who had never been elected by the National Assembly, which was during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. So Vuk Draskovic was foreign minister, Mr Palalic, under a regulation declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. The same was true of Mr. Stankovic, who served as defence minister. When we add these two members, and if we accept this unconstitution, then the government had 19 cabinets. That's what I'm saying right now just because your discussion went that way. I wouldn't call this in any way unserious, this is a natural and normal flow of things in every policy. The only unnatural thing since 2000, if we're talking about the matter of the Government Act, was the situation, when I look from the position of constitutionality, when we had two ministers who didn't choose the Republic Assembly. The third thing in that government since 2004, Mr. Palalic, was that we had nine months of ministers in resignation. Ministers from G17 plus then served as resignation ministers for nine months. I really don't intend to go back in time right now, but apropo of your criticisms, I just want to tell you, when we're talking about whether it's serious or not, and I'm going back to it. I'm sorry to forget so quickly, but we had a foreign minister and a defence minister who was never elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Palalic, the regulation has been regulated that people are ministers without being elected, and the regulation has been declared unconstitutional, which is perfectly normal (because how such a regulation can be). Therefore, it is apropo of whether something is serious or not. I'm telling you again, we can't tell Germany that it's a non-serious state. At one point in Germany, the state administration's activities concerning sports were carried out by the interior ministry. That's how people decided to group the government's affairs. Since we're colleagues, let's get into the essence. It's about the government's affairs that group in the way those who vote on it think it's the most functional thing for them. And when I was in opposition, we slowed down when the government made the capital investment ministry in 2004 – uh, what so many ministries would do and how the minister would run it, etc. So I don't argue that the opposition is attacking, but I just want to say what's true. It is true that the question of grouping the affairs of the state administration is indeed the issue of those who should vote on it, who consider it the most comprehensive and who will, in the end, bear the burden of it if it is not good or useful if it is good. We think it's this good, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic thinks it's this good, this is the fruit of grouping related businesses and political realities and that's how it works. According to the 2003 Ministry Act, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in 2000, had 24 resolutions, in 2002 19 resistors, in 19 resistors, in 2004, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which, in my opinion, had this largest gaff of ministers who had not been elected to the Assembly – 17 resors without those two unselected in the Assembly, and with those two had 19, 2007 had 22 resors, 2008 had 24 resistors and now this proposal is – 17 resors. You also asked me, I don't know now if you said that, about the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. The Ministry doesn't cancel. The Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights are joined. You say minorities had their own ministry. First of all, it's not that anyone has a ministry. The Ministry of State, it's the government's authority, it's doing these jobs. Why do you think they can't be carried out within a ministry that has a different name? You may comment if the new minister abolishes the law enforcement sector, the promotion of rights, etc. by systematisation. And if you see that the jobs contained in this sector are not contained in another sector, so you say -- wait, the number of perpetrators was that high, and here is so much. According to that logic, not even the Ministry of Faith... Why? You can ask these questions all the time. It's about the affairs of the state administration, which every state does, and there's no dilemma. Whether to group them as a special ministry or to manage to bring them together within a larger authority of the administration, that is a minor issue. The question is whether these affairs are being done by the state administration. Basically, we're coming to that. And you can't just go on and on about how you figured it out, that the ministry that's going to be formed and that someone who's going to run these jobs or not, whether or not the affairs of the state administration are going to be done. You can only do that if you see that in systematicization these jobs for which some jobs are systematized no longer exist. It's the only way to determine that. Everything else is a political speech, but knowing you, I'm deliberately getting deeper into this problem. You said it now reflects in some way the attitude towards national minorities. I can't agree with you, because in the government you called again, in 2004, after all the events, we had the Service for Human and Minority Rights. Well, the government service isn't even the government's authority. Dear colleagues you throw away, these are familiar terms and concepts defined by the Law on State Administration and who deals with politics should distinguish body, service, body. I'm sorry to make someone laugh, but I'm saying what's in the work cycle that I know and do, and don't throw it away, there's no reason. So, the service was that, Mr. Palaly, which is completely inappropriate. Under the Ministry Act, the government service does not belong to the authorities of the state administration, because it does not decide on rights and obligations, nor is it formed by law. So it was the Service of Human and Minority Rights, and then the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and the affairs of the state administration was formed well systemized. I'll remind you that in that government later, which we had together with you, the affairs of the election of national councils of national minorities, the adoption of regulations, etc. were at the Department of State, if you remember. True, that government lasted eight months. It was in the Ministry of State Administration and there was a law on national councils of national minorities and elections for national councils of national minorities. Therefore, the government's affairs were then there, and there was a government service that was essentially involved in representing the European Court of Human Rights, through a representative who was still the same man today, no one changed him. It's just that a man does his job well. I don't know if anyone's thinking of changing it in the future, but I'm saying what it looks like. So I don't agree with you at all about this concern for national minorities. At the very least, part of 2004... And I don't think the government at all didn't care about the rights of national minorities. I don't think she took care of herself at all. But here, if it's a reflection of your ageing, then I'm sure she took less care of the government that has it in the government, she had it in the government service, if that's how we want to look at things. But I don't think that's the measure at all. The measure is business related to it. Now you've asked me about the secretary of state, if they're going to cut the number. I think so. At this point in the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, four seats have been systematised for the State Secretary, Ministry of State Administration three. Whoever he is, I don't think he's gonna hold seven state secretaries, I think that's completely pointless. So it's obvious it's going to shrink. It's a matter of reducing the assistants. That depends on how sectors are grouped. An assistant who loses the sector, I don't think you've interpreted it well, can do business in the same or higher calling, calling a senior advisor. Therefore, there is no dilemma that there will be a reduction in both the number and the cost, which is quite obvious because everything we are talking about is being followed by certain services, certain costs, certain salaries, etc. Basically, I think that's where the most important thing is whether the affairs of the state administration will be done effectively. The Prime Minister has estimated that this is the way in which we are best. The Prime Minister will present his programme. You think it's not good, it's your political position, but I can't help but think about going back to the formation of earlier governments and earlier authorities of the state administration. We've had these and similar discussions up until now, and especially when this is characterized... It's one thing to characterise that something isn't functional, but to say that this is now the most inconclusive, that something like this has never been, I can't go back again, I don't know for which time, on the matter of the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of Defense. Look, for these two very large ministries, ministers were never elected to the National Assembly, and they were ministers and all that was legal, etc., and then the Constitutional Court made it clear what he thought of it and declared it unconstitutional, and it was quite obvious that it was unconstitutional from day one. The regulation does not allow you to form public administration authorities. It's absurd. You can't have a minister who wasn't elected to the National Assembly. So I wanted to go back a little while while we're criticizing this, but let's see the results. We think this is going to be functional and I believe it's going to be functional. Otherwise, governments would be made with 50-60 resors, because you can make all the jobs of the state administration, you can position them as a special ministry, which is completely irrational.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51154	The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has the right to reply. I see the MPs with pleasure listen to the minister, and with good reactions, positive and smiling faces, but I would like to ask that we introduce a few measures anyway. The MP has two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51155	Mr. Minister, when it comes to national minorities, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica at the federal level had a ministry. After the end of the state union in the next first government, a ministry was formed, and you are now terminating it. That's true. So you're removing one acquired right. And you can't say nothing happened here now. That's a fact. As for the situation in the area of national minorities, here, ask all representatives of national minorities, both in relation to laws and in relation to the situation, what progress has then been made. And what's the status now? So you're not replacing the minister, you're terminating the ministry. That's the consequences. You haven't explained to us what the reasons are, what are the objectives and what is the reason for the merger and abolition of individual ministries. You say - that's an estimate. You as a minister have to tell us – this will make it better, that's why we did it, so in the ministry we want the sectors grouped and that's why it'll be better. That's the point. And then we can have an argument that's justified why we don't think it's going to get any better, and you're staying on the stand that it will. We didn't hear that from you. What is the goal of breaking up the Ministry of Mining and Energy? I'd like to hear it from you. What's the point of that? Don't just say it - the prime minister will say it. You tell me, because you're defending that law here. Maybe it was better if the Prime Minister came to tell us. As for that situation you mentioned about the resignation ministers, I remind you, they were ministers from G17 plus. They resigned on October 1st, the elections were called in early November. The assembly stopped working at that moment, it was in a technical meeting, the government stopped existing. The next government was elected only in May 2007. You know that very well. The government was in a technical mandate less than a month. In that same month, the constitution was brought, less than a month after the resignation of individual ministers, and the government was formed only next year in May. And the whole atmosphere, from the fact that Montenegro was separated until then, that was in May or June, was actually the atmosphere when the process of making the Constitution began. Both the government and the entire political system were in one transparent state and that is the essence of the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51156	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51157	It's not like that, Mr. Palalic. First, you did not refer to the existence of two ministers who had never chosen the National Assembly. That should happen again. So, the only indifference in this sense existed during the period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica -- two ministers never elected to the National Assembly. But you're wrong. Allow me, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has ceased, there was a ministry of human and minority rights, you did not say then – there must have been a ministry of human and minority rights, but you formed a service, Mr Palalic. And first, the next human and minority rights ministry has formed this government. There was a service, Mr. Palalic, but I am now telling you that because there was a service in your time, I am not reducing the quality of the policy towards minorities in Serbia, and you will, through the fact that the affairs of the state administration now being done in the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, will be done in the future in a ministry that will be called the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, by saying that we will have less quality policy towards minorities in Serbia than it was. I'm just saying, it's just not a good methodology for you. So the way you're doing that conclusion is wrong. Because that's what I could say - while the DSS held a republican government, there was no body that dealt with human and minority rights, but there was a service. But I'm not saying that. And who has defended you, when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has ceased to exist, to come before the MPs and say – we are concerned about the state of minority and human rights in the Republic of Serbia, we form the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, of course, we also think that we choose the foreign ministers and defence ministers? You didn't do it, and no one was defending you. So don't do it that way. Just look through the prism, try to use the methodology from which you draw criticism of this proposal to observe the period when Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister after the state union of Serbia-Montenegro ceased to exist. That's what I want to tell you. How can you do that? I just want to point out the wrong logic you've applied. You want to give criticism, it's logical, but I'm telling you it's completely wrong. Because everything you said in your presentation can only be used against the DSS government, when it had the most ordinary service for human and minority rights instead, and only by the arrival of this coalition was the ministry established and tomorrow, after this law on ministries, the ministry will again deal with human and minority rights. That's all I'm saying. I don't think you've done any bad work for human and minority rights, nor do I think this government has worked badly, nor will any of the future work badly, because the real standard of exercising minority rights in the Republic of Serbia, in my knowledge, has been seen in parallel, at the highest level. I really think that the Republic of Serbia is far above and beyond the environment and European standards and that's something we should be proud of. It wasn't created by this government, it's simply a process of work since 2000, and we should be happy about the process. And what you've been saying a little sarcastically about the provisions of the Government Act that they aim to in some way oppose this political unculture that we have, these are the provisions that were contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Government. That the government's views should be represented has already been contained in the Government's Rules of Procedure, so you can't tell me that now we've inserted something that wasn't part of the normative regulation before. It was in the government's office. So it was part of the normative matter. Yeah, we made it stronger, we put it in the law. I'm sorry, but obviously it's necessary. It is obviously necessary in Serbia, because this is not the first government to face it. And the government in which we shared responsibility faced it. And indeed it may be necessary to say by law – wait for the people, there must be some order. It's not right for the citizens of one minister to hear one thing, and the other minister hears another. And we're people, and our political system is like this, we have weaknesses, there's particularism. What, now we're just pretending it's not like that? That's why I wouldn't make fun of those laws. I wouldn't treat them so sarcastically. It's simple, they've been arranged by the Rules of Procedure so far, and now it's governed by the law. If it was luck, it wouldn't have to stand there, I totally agree, but obviously it's necessary to stand. So our attitude is clear. This is a framework in which we expect the Government to act more effectively, to have better coordination and to make it easier or more certain to achieve the goals ahead of us in this year 2011, and that is why we came with these proposals before the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51158	The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51159	Mr. Minister, in the opening part of the exhibition, I was talking about the inconclusion of the whole reconstruction process. Here's an example, a memo that we have now received from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who had a legal obligation to deliver today to the National Assembly a proposal for new ministers in the government that he plans to reconstruct. Listen to the answer: "I believe that the submission of a proposal for the selection of new members of the government under these circumstances would be a violation of the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly and of the MPs. Respecting the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly, I will deliver proposals for the selection of ministers after the Government Act is passed" (meaning breaking the law) "and the Law on the Ministry, which the National Assembly will discuss today". Mr. Minister, what are we talking about? About seriousness or inconclusiveness? About respecting the law or disrespecting the law? What did we bring these laws? So the prime minister can assess that the decision he has to make is based on the law of violation of the dignity of the MPs? Turns out we've passed a law that offends our dignity. It's just amazing. Mr. Minister, when we open a debate on such an important subject, then we need to see the context, and the context is that the whole process is unserious. He ends up with one of the Prime Minister's arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51160	Please, MPs, since it is quite clear that taking care of order at a session like this implies that there is a right to replication and that there is the widest possible creativity when it comes to discussion, but that you still use the right to replication. Because if we get the right to a replica, then we're replicating what we're saying from a conversationist. A violation of that right would mean that I can't take care of a line. It's just being solved, by not getting a message from you that it shouldn't be a replica. So please, if it's a replica, it's replicated. Thank you. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51161	Now I've heard from you about that letter and for me it's fully expected. I really do belong to those difficult formalists, and I often resent exaggerating myself in this formalism, but don't you think it would be really pointless for the prime minister to present today a proposal for ministers who don't exist under the new ministry law? And don't you think it's hard to find in Serbia a man who would expose himself to taking part in such a farce that we now, say, propose for a ministry that is abolished, that no longer exists? I think the Prime Minister did the right thing and this is completely logical. So you think he should have found a man now and told him -- let me suggest you as a ministry that we're going to shut down. Don't you think that doesn't make sense?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51162	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51163	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today's legislative activity comes down, practically, to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, and also to the new law on ministries, and I think that, in addition to this formal, regulatory side of our today's session, there is also the fact that this is in some way the political theme of a couple of excellencies, and that it is very important that, when we approach such a legislative proposal, we take care of the very intensity of those who made the proposal. I am sure we all agree that long-secured political stability in Serbia should not be disrupted in any way. Also, we must not expect that, if such a law is passed, anything epochal will happen to the interests of our country's sovereignty bearers, which are citizens of Serbia. Also, I believe this is a responsible move by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling coalition. I think for a year and a half of media speculation that unfortunately existed in our media sphere, in public, simply did not contribute to the preservation of the government's dignity and authority in an adequate way. What I can say on behalf of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition is that we've never been an obstacle to any reconstruction. We have always advocated not to lead this controversy in the media, but to make a clear proposal. The moment the proposal was tabled, we gave a positive answer on the model, both in terms of structure and in terms of respecting political reality. Because this is a political reality. Mr Dacic himself said on several occasions that we, first of all, advocated a systematic approach to the reconstruction of the government, to pass one law on ministries that will systematically resolve this issue, not only ad hoc, but also some future governments, and that it should reach a consensus of all relevant political actors. Of course, given that political reality is such that this is not possible at this point, I think this is a good initiative, a good initial move, that in some future time there is a law on ministries that no one, no opposition or position, will question and put it in the context of any disturbance, whether political stability or the interests of Serbian citizens. What is coming to us in some future time period, and I hope that this will come very quickly, after choosing a new government composition or a government reconstruction, is that this government is working more efficiently and creating an ambience in which to work more responsibly. I believe that when citizens point to some weakness in the work of the government, it is not a sin to admit that something like this is happening, and it is even less a sin to react in this way. If someone can convince us that five of the government's declared objectives will be compromised in this way, I don't think they will have the opportunity, nor a good enough argument to prove it to the citizens. So will Serbia's European future be threatened by these changes and additions to the Government Act and by the adoption of a new ministry law? I'm sure he won't. The second goal is to preserve sovereignty and integrity. In the field, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown exceptional ability, wisdom and a correlation with the real situation on the global political scene. The strengthening of the economy, of course, will not be compromised. I think that, after those negative effects of the global economic crisis that we are all aware of, we have a small, modest one, but in any case the upward path towards our economy. The government's social responsibility in a not so envious socio-economic situation has never been questioned, and I don't think this ministry law will be questioned either. A sharp fight against corruption and crime not only will it not be questioned, but it will be even more severe. I think this government has just shown, and the Minister of the Interior himself, that if you have the courage, if you have the desire, if you have the understanding of coalition partners and if you are truly committed to it, then you can do a lot in this field. I think by the end of this year, we have a good chance of getting the status of candidate country to join the EU. It would be optimistic to say that we expect negotiations to begin on the subject, but why not say so? I don't see any reason why someone in a nihilistic, fatalistic way would consider such a proposal. One of the EU member states, France, formed a government of thought in 2007, and the government is in a continuous reconstruction. You had Foreign Minister Bernard Kushner, then it was Michelle Alio Marie, the other day Allen Zipe came to that place, and nothing epochal in France happened because of it. Under the new mandate, 50% of the old, some former ministers in the French government were returned, yet nothing epochal happened in the matter of violations of human or minority rights or violations of the interest of the citizens of France. What gives this debate a clear color and practically puts us in a political arena is one, I must say, a very studioy and detailed argument of the Secretary-General, who wanted to point out here what the applicant's intensity is. Some may be bothered by that, but I think that in a very thorough way he is just pointing to everything this law on amendments and additions to the Government Act, practically, foresees. If you want an expert hearing, you've got a man who can explain it all. As far as the political dimension of the problem itself is concerned, it is important that citizens themselves do not recognise this government exclusively by what some say is scheme, manipulation, marketing tricks, etc. This isn't a marketing trick. We wait that Monday or Tuesday, when a new government is elected, when the prime minister, or Prime Minister, sets out his programme – that programme will, of course, be based on these five declared objectives – and let us give little time to see if it is a marketing trick, whether it is a buy of time, or whether we are all together in the ruling coalition really defined to take responsibility for what is ahead of us and what is ahead of us. Those who have the right to criticise, which is the opposition, of course, know themselves that they do not have some great and quality alternative around which they can gather together and form that ruling majority and move forward, and that it differs greatly from these five stated goals. I am convinced that whoever forms a future government will be the government of continuity compared to these five declared objectives. That's why sometimes we need to make an account, have a responsibility to the citizens, who, I repeat, are the holders of sovereignty, who chose us to represent them here, represent their interests, and to rule this country on their behalf and to realize the goals that we gather around. Every coalition government is a fruit of compromise. Every compromise in this game brings a little something that they may not have originally wanted. So is every coalition agreement the fruit of political reality. Someone will say this is a reflection of political reality. Yeah, I can agree and I don't think that can be at all controversial. What is most important for us from the SPS, the PUPS and the JS is that the resolution ministers of our coalition have worked in an honorable, quality way and will continue to do so. They worked quality, in the interest of the citizens, worked on the realization of these five declared objectives, invested their maximum, and they got, people said, hot potatoes. It's not the same thing to run the Ministry of Interior, Mining and Energy, Infrastructure, Education... Of course, I don't want to put anyone on a lower level, but I'm comparing with some other ministries that are being abolished by this draft ministry law. Therefore, when we talk about the integrity and authority of the SPS, its ministers, I must say that we can proudly say that we have made a full contribution. Also, we can find out, if anyone wants to criticize us, that anyone who works can and is wrong, and one who has not worked, but has only observed and criticized, has not produced any effect. And also, and I'm going to end this debate, which we sometimes have here in a simplified way, not taking care of perhaps enough of the very serious subject we're dealing with and the repercussions that this topic is going to cause, we all have to agree together that we've practically all discussed on the same subject many times and held accountable for many decisions that were once unfounded in norms, which may have been perhaps even unsertained. Not to remind myself that we chose the President of Parliament thanks to some opposition parties present here, so that mandate lasted practically 12 hours, so now it does not occur to anyone, but some suffer from amnesia. I think we all share responsibility. Let's share that responsibility together. Your constructive criticism from the opposition is always welcome, this is a country which is a legacy of democratic values, I think that everything that can be a correction of the government should be present in this home and in the Serbian political public, but I can also argue that this law on the ministries and the law on amendments to the Government Act will practically be the initiation of a really better quality normation of this issue and that it will be finalised, hopefully, at some political moment when conditions arise, or when there is a much broader consensus approach to all political actors. The SPS and JS MPs will, of course, vote on these two proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51164	13 minutes and 10 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51165	People say that Zoran Djindjic, the only president of the DOS government who had the courage and vision, asked what to do when the railway went missing, spoke – rock the wagon. And this situation where today's government reminds me of what's in nature when you come across a web of poisonous snakes -- they'd eat everything around them alive, but they don't bite each other. It's about the government's reconstruction story and Mr. Secretary's story of not being a formalist. Well, if the Prime Minister doesn't follow the law and in 15 days he doesn't deliver the names of the new ministers, whose resignations we adopted 15 days ago, come on, my God, being, you'll adopt some new ones, there are laws to be trampled on. And the only respect of the National Assembly is respect for the law. You don't have to talk nice, nice, nice, nice. Just respect the laws we make. This repack looks like new boxes and new labels. All night, there was a light burning in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. You'd think a man -- here's a new economic plan for Serbia's recovery, here's how to get out of the crisis, here's the story of new investments, and you're fighting over ministries. New energy, new youth, all the same people, the same ideology, the same composition of the government. A reduced number of ministries, it's a government reconstruction. A young, educated man, smart, says for a while – if we held elections now, it would be devastating for Serbia. I think it would be devastating for Serbia if this government remained and it would be devastating if there was a riot, and the elections couldn't be fatal for the state. They're not fatal to power, except for those who've cut into crime, bribery and corruption. We hold six months ago a rally in the sports hall "Arena", the president of the state says – we will reshuffle the government. On February 5th, we hold a new rally, according to us best in recent history, you minimize it as much as you want, the Prime Minister says – we will reshuffle the government. And now we have come to the conclusion that you are reshuffled by the government, and you would like to tell the citizens of Serbia that our story of the extraordinary parliamentary elections is devastating because right now we are going to prevent Serbia from getting EU membership candidate status. We scheduled a new rally for April 16th. We are now openly giving you the opportunity for Serbia to come out of this as a dignified, civilized, democratic country, which wants to be an EU member. You want an advantage called candidate status. Here, let's give you that advantage. If in October, the European Commission proposes to the EU Council for Serbia to get candidate status, in November to hold extraordinary parliamentary elections, and then the EU Council in December, when it decides, knows which government it will deal with for four years. Both theoretically and practically, there will be a change of government. In theory, there can even be a change in the relationship of the new government to the EU. What would the EU risk investing a lot in Serbia without parties coming to power that do not want Serbia to be an EU member? As you run the country, the desire to be an EU member fell to 58% with 70% support among citizens. Today, 58% of Serbian citizens want Serbia to be in the EU. Has the EU changed? It's not. It's your fault. The responsibility should now be transferred first to the EU and then to the opposition. To the EU, because it requires that some difficult moves (as if it had never asked for) be taken, and to the opposition, because it requires that a legitimate National Assembly be reached. On whose behalf are you running the country today? On whose behalf do you bring these laws? On whose behalf do you choose the government? On behalf of the 2008 voters? They are no longer for this composition of Parliament. You're not even in favor of the government's composition. Otherwise, you would not have passed the government law solely because of Mladjan Dinkic. I can't imagine that we're changing the Government Act to warn ministers, secretaries, that they have to listen to the Prime Minister and respect his views and that they have to make public views that are common positions for the entire government. What was that before that? Who was it that expressed different attitudes? Are you just predicting it could be or is it already happening? Then you say you are discussing a constitutional provision that the government decides on the powers of the minister to whom the term of office has ceased. It would be all right if you hadn't told the secretary that his term of office ended with the appointment of the new Secretary-General of the Government, either by resignation or resolution. And what about his authority from the moment of resignation or discharge to the election of a new secretary? Well, isn't that the same legal logic? If the minister didn't know what he was going to do when his resignation was accepted here, what would the secretary do when the government accepted his resignation and failed to elect a new secretary? Something bit you, and you won't tell which snake on that Internet dared to bite the other snakes. Of course, you're giving the regions back to the renamed Mladjan Dinkic. Well, he could also be named Mary Poppins, you know what he's been doing for the last ten years, you know what he's ruined, you know who gave him that. This Serbia knows everything, gentlemen. No hiding, no renaming, no kidnapping, but in front of the people, before the people. What do you say, he loses the Parliament for two months, he won't work if there's a choice? Well, we haven't worked in three months. You don't care if the assembly works or doesn't work. To be clear once again, tell your president of the state - the elections in November and we will no longer ask for extraordinary parliamentary elections. If you don't answer, and it takes us a month to set up a rally for April 16th, we'll hold a rally on April 16th. It's up to you, we've done ours. We're acting responsibly. We give you a chance that Serbia doesn't mind you too much for everything you've done. You give Serbia a chance, and you don't have to. Knowing you, I'm not too sure we won't see each other on April 16th. Because unlike you, who are in the O.R. and you know very well what is needed, those who lead you about it know nothing. Some of them will deprive themselves of their contributions to be ministers, and they may not be deprived. Maybe now they'll do better than that. And Serbia is waiting for big changes, which you are not ready for. You don't have the guts to make hard moves. You want the people to love you, and you can't do it. How will he love you? Eighty billion in privatisation – where are they? Dollars or euros, does it matter? You're investing everything in a billion from Telecom. Eighty of those billions have entered Serbia. Where are those billions, where are those roads, where are those traffic stations, the infrastructure? Where are the capital facilities? Where are the export factories in Russia? Where's the lucky peasant? The price of food, currently the best of all products we can produce. What's our product, new government law and ministries? Do the same political parties lead the same resolutions just to put them together? It's like these others are going to be orphans. To make Dinkic an MP, and his MP somewhere to be a director. What does Serbia get? What's good for Serbia? Why aren't you allowed to measure your strength? Well, it's all in your hands -- money, power, our bad past. Here, now you said it wasn't this government's fault for the crisis, it was the Slovenians who came to the Balkans in the sixth century. Since then, we've been pulling a crisis, how is this government going to correct this crisis? The media. You can completely blacken a man, change his statement, misread. After an apology, it's like collecting feathers. You're investigating other people's lives, what else can you do, if someone hadn't stuck a finger in their nose somewhere. You just said it's not nice to discuss, it's not polite to stick your finger up your nose. Here, if we have that sin. But one thing you need to know - the one who runs the country must show seriousness. Yesterday I read a column of one of your members, it is not present in the Assembly, so it was taken to say to him – power is more important than ideology, it was seen in the formation of this government. True, this authority is not in ideology, otherwise today you would not applaud an opposition MP who spoke against the general opinion of the majority government. I don't think it's good for Serbia that you fight. It is good for Serbia that you run it uniquely and complexly or that you stay away if you are unable to do so. I don't think it's a good idea for someone to take you out on the streets, but you didn't understand that silence speech at the February 5th rally. That didn't get to you. That terrible silence that didn't respond to our speeches either. And if someone had said "below the government," you would have seen what would have happened. That only someone was headed for the government building. You have bitter people. You've got people down. You have dissatisfied people. You have a poor woman. You accused Mladjan Dinkic of losing 200,000 jobs. Is this a chance for his party to be in government? What kind of relationship is this between you -- the Prime Minister said he wants to rush off a minister because he is a direct culprit, the president of the National Assembly says -- that's what the debate is going to open. The minister resigns, the Prime Minister forwards his resignation to parliament and is being discussed before the request for a shift, so that you do not discuss here, so that you can re-assess some kind of government. There will also be Vice President Verica Kalanovic. That day she said, "I'm a moral person, I'm leaving the government with my president." And the rest of you will seem to be immoral. In the end, it looks like she's immoral too, since she accepted to be in the government. So, what kind of political party does the president get expelled from while the party stays in government? Is there an ideology in there? No, there's only wishes. But look, since you've been out of the media, your popularity has been getting dizzy. Now only people see that everything was a lie – new employment, every day a new factory... And the "yellows" see what a mistake they made when you were released from night to night on television. And socialists. They're at war with children and their teachers, and you're opening factories. Well, of course, you're helping now, you're whining now. But you're not exactly innocent in all this either, gentlemen of the Socialists. One who sees the situation as difficult should give citizens the opportunity to choose again, not hold them hostage to a deal that no longer exists. You will see the exposés of President Cvetkovic – 90% will repeat so-called the declared objectives. Well, how long do we listen to your goals? It took us until the end of last year to get candidate status, according to Cvetkovic. We were supposed to make 300,000 cars at the flag last year. Aren't you ashamed? You wanted to take away the peasants' land in Kragujevac, so when you thought the price was high, you gave away the barracks. Whose gift are you giving it to? Whose property? Whose homeland? Did you get it, did you make it, or does that happy people think they're going to work there? What do you want him to do? You have declared that only a thousand Kragujevac people can make cars. In Serbia, no one but them knows how to make cars. If they don't know these in Kragujevac, nobody knows. They didn't pass the tests, they don't know how far Mars is from the sun. It was the level of tests passed by the workers who installed the cars. You have ruined the political situation in the Raška region, or Sandzak, as I call it, by selecting national councils of national minorities. I will not insult the feelings of those who call it Sandzak, let them call it whatever they want. By choosing national councils of national minorities, you have directly threatened peace, order, security, stability. And with two incompetent ministers in the Raska area. Why are you getting involved in this? How did you get the government? Did anyone betray the ideology he went to the polls with to go to the government? Yes, it is. Well, that's what they do and chosen in the councils of national minorities. And they're going from the list to the list. It's freedom, freedom of man to go wherever he wants. It's not slavery, it's not service, it's not behavior like you don't have your head and your brain. That's when you think for yourself. Why don't you let them think for themselves? Are you sure it's gonna be all quiet out there? And let's get rid of the Ministry of Minority Rights, take him under some state administration. Come on, for everything you've ruined, stop the ministry. The minister says well – demagogy is to talk about reducing the government. But then he says 15 times - this is the smallest government. Is there more demagogy? If it's demagogy to talk about reducing the government, don't favor it, celebrate it. You've cut the government, let's move on. And if she had 40 members, I wouldn't mind if there were hope for a better life in Serbia. It's not like this. You're talking about setting up a development bank. For ten years, we've been taking loans from the German Development Bank. It's like Kolubara -- you're not gonna buy your machines, you're gonna take a rent. These are your loans from the German Development Bank, when you don't have your own development bank. In Vojvodina, of course, it could be a development bank, even if it was illegally created. So our offer is an offer to Serbia, not to you. If I were to think exclusively of you, as people who deal with politics and who should suffer the consequences of their poor work, I'd probably listen to the most solid core of the SNS, and I wouldn't even talk to you. Maybe because I'm not that kind of man. But I say to you one more time: let him who has ears listen; let him who has eyes look. This is the last chance to solve things in Serbia as normal people. To show that we care about the citizens, that the people chose us to care for him, not that he cared for us because he chose us. Not that he's afraid because he chose us. We have time. We don't want to use our strength like you did when you were angry and angry and full of strength. We need strength to lead Serbia, and we will surely lead it much better than you. It is wrong for Serbia to lose a year under your authority waiting for what must inevitably happen. And just one more thing - think carefully, it's much better to be replaced by us normally than to be replaced by someone who's not that normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51166	Before I give my word to the MP Nemanja Sarovic, just to give a notice, in accordance with Article 90, that this session is also in direct transmission. Given that the work has been extended, I would like to inform the MPs that we will conclude our afternoon work at 7:30 today. National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought first of all that I would show my protest and protest to the SRS for the fact that Mr Cvetkovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is not here. However, I thought about it a little bit in the meantime and realized that he didn't really have anything to say to us. What he had to say, he told us through this note he just sent. I expected to hear from you what prevented Mirko Cvetkovic from being in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, what was more important to him, whether he might have shared carnations around the government or the ministry somewhere, but it turned out that he was worth sitting in the office and concocting this letter informing us that he knew the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that he had read it, that he knew the law on the government he had proposed to us, but that it would be an insult to the MPs and an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly that he had also respected this Constitution. And it's not about any formality or formality, it's about that, basically. But what was next was an offensive explanation for Mr Markovic. I really expected a little more from you. I was expecting new information, and instead you read that nerdy explanation that we received under this law and thus practically made the assumption that we didn't even read what you sent us. Perhaps you have thus informed of what is in the proposal part of the ruling coalition's MPs who have certainly not even read this proposal and who will not participate in the debate, but are just waiting for the debate to be concluded and to vote on the proposal. But the fact remains, and it must be determined, that this is one of the sessions and that this is one of the laws when Mirko Cvetkovic had to be in the National Assembly and when it was simply unimaginable that anyone else, it was Minister Markovic, Oliver Dulic or everyone else together, replacing Mirko Cvetkovic. During the debate, we heard a lot of things. We have also heard that even those who will vote for this law and who will vote for this future government will do so not because they think it is of quality, but will do so, they say, because they hope to finally reform the judiciary in that last year, that a restitution law will be passed and that Serbia will finally get EU candidate status. I must remind you that you have been reforming the judiciary for 11 years. The judiciary has never been in a worse situation than Mrs Malovic, who will be in the next government, has absolutely not earned another ministerial mandate. Anyone can try to answer the question of how many judges we have in Serbia today, as once during the DS authorities did not know how many MPs there are, so today you do not know, after all these great reforms, how many judges we have, so some have been resolved more than a year ago and are still getting paid, you are extending that agony to them and you have not yet defined how many judges there are. As far as the restitution law is concerned, it's a law you've been very happy to mention in pre-election campaigns, and you've been doing it since 2000. Here, as the election approaches, you do it today. You have, all of you who have participated in DOS through various forms of this doss regime, and today you rule Serbia for 11 years to pass this restitution law, and you won't even get five more mandates because you are unable to fulfil the government's regular obligations regarding pensions, health care, justice, education, and let alone pay billions and billions under the restitution law. We also heard that, according to Mr Markovic, only the most malicious can say that the current situation is due to the work of this government. I don't know if you, Mr. Markovic, see your responsibility somewhere, and you know very well that you have it, as well as Boris Tadic and this entire government. You are just responsible for this political anomaly that has just spoken to you and you are responsible for the fact that this political anomaly teaches morals in the National Assembly, and is still in the National Assembly because the theft has come to the resignation of the MPs of the SRS. Your political will was for "Mr Styrofoam" who pays William Montgomery more than anyone else in the party, to talk about Serbia's better future today. And you, Mr. Markovic, are guilty of your inertness. You are guilty of not answering the SRS parliamentary question and questioning SNS financing. They're planning a new rally, and they haven't even explained where they got tens of millions of dinars paid for before. That, Mr. Markovic, is your responsibility. I expect that in the next term you will begin to respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia, to start applying them, to examine the origin of the property. So far, we have heard countless times that the prosecution is moving to question the assets of Dragan Djajic, formerly known footballer, one or more, but let's see when they will examine the assets of those who, during the eight-year darkness, have transformed Vojislav Seselj from some nationalists into Europeans, and today they ask you if you know anyone who has strayed from his ideology to enter power. Yeah, I know. I know 20 of them and they're sitting there, but, Mr. Markovic, it wasn't my job to answer this, it was yours. Instead of spending 20 minutes on the DSS, which didn't change its ideology, and you didn't have the courage to answer to Mr. European, I suppose, because of this new coalition and the future coalition he mentioned a little bit. I suppose you will explain this to the demands of Europe, that you will say – here, it is best, it is the only way towards the EU, but I warn you not to go into power with those who say today – you know, it is freedom of opinion, it is thinking with their own head, and they forget that they found their head only in the sixth decade of life, and that in their place, Vojislav Seselj had clearly thought about it. You don't think about someone saying today -- I'm ashamed to be a rat to the Socialist Party of Serbia in the government from 1998 to 2000, and today he's not ashamed to be in a coalition with a spokesman for July, which was the worst part of that coalition government. You don't tell him to review his coalition partner first, whom he called the biggest thief in Serbia's history in 2007, who he claimed to have stolen 600m euros from "Mobtel", to fall first on that tycoon, and then the others who finance it, and then to object to you only to the tycoons and those who help you and who helped you get to power. As far as this government itself is concerned, I also told you in 2008, when you formed it, that this government will be a long century, despite many estimates, not because it is quality, not because it has professional ministers, but because this government is based on only one principle, and that principle is a desire for power. The biggest fear of the SRS parliamentary group is that the next government will also be based solely on the desire for power, not on principles. We, unlike many others, spoke to you sitting here before the elections with whom we can't, and it wasn't happening for us to be in power (when you look at, for example, the SPS) with those who, with balloons in the Republic Square, celebrated the death of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague tribunal or that, like LDP, we would be in a coalition with the hated Milosevic regime or that, like Vuk Draskovic, we would be in a coalition with the followers of the politics and party of the man whom he accused of two assassinations and the murder of the four closest associates and all the other evils that happened in Serbia during the 1990s. These changes to the Government Act represent and show to a full extent the frustration of Mirko Cvetkovic of what happened in the past three years. They absolutely show nothing else. They show that you're trying to solve some kind of innate disease of this government after three and a half years of office, and that's impossible. You talked about cosmetic changes and we thought perhaps at the beginning that it would be cosmetic changes, but then we heard and heard through the media that you were introducing Zoran Stankovic and Dusan Petrovic into the government. If it's the embellishment of the government you've been talking about, then make sure it's not gonna be enough, because you need a serious plastic operation more than this light embellishment and some spring grooming. And what you're doing now looks more like a knee shot and this previous government, because the people who have proven themselves incapable of running certain corridors are going to be in a position to be in the future, in addition to that resistor where they've proven themselves incompetent, are going to be led by some other resistor. It's something that absolutely can't give any results. For Mirko Cvetkovic's reconstruction, it is certain, there was no solution. The only solution for Mirko Cvetkovic was resignation. So either you have authority or you don't have authority. Authority is not something that can be prescribed by the Government Act, and the provisions that have been added are just an attempt to legalise or prescribe the authority of Mirko Cvetkovic. At the end of the line, if Mirko Cvetkovic had no authority and could not have had the authority to run a government for three years, what is now so stuck, in this fourth, that he also tries to see how it has authority? It is impossible because it is well known that it is not Mirko Cvetkovic who decides anything in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We know that Boris Tadic was also the one who gave the gas, and the one who criticized the ministers, and the one who praised the ministers, that he was the man who was the foreign minister, Vuk Jeremic es-em-es, informing whether he would give up the conventions we had already handed over to the UN, whether Brussels. The country's policy cannot be guided through es-em messages and it is certainly something that cannot be done by the President of the Republic. One of the members you had to sign is that the President of the Republic cannot be the Prime Minister at the same time, and that the President of the Republic is obliged to refrain from interfering in the affairs of the Prime Minister and that the Prime Minister is obliged to start interfering in his business. You have reduced this reconstruction to a large media hall. You've been talking about it for a year and a half. Unfortunately, I won't have enough time to read to you what you've been saying, because you've spoken to each other, class, denied yourself a large number of times, but it shouldn't forget that some who have already left this government had to be replaced, such as Tomica Milosavljevic, who has earned it countless times, and Mladjan Dinkic, who, in the end, as a gentleman man, turned and came out of that bar or swamp, as your coalition partner Vuk Draskovic called it. This reconstruction is not based on any desire for change, on the desire for efficiency, but above all on the desire to stop the decline of the citizens of Serbia's confidence in state institutions, which you may not be interested in so much, but also above all the decline of the citizens of Serbia's confidence in the ruling coalition, which is growing stronger and stronger from day to day. The basic problem will, of course, be that distribution of power, and the future government will be even worse in this respect than the previous one, because now this government will not be sitting in Mladjan Dinkic, and you all know that Mladjan Dinkic, at least as far as G17 Plus is concerned, is asking about everything, and he will be asking about everything in the future but will no longer sit in the government, but will continue to settle everything at the meetings of the ruling coalition president, and people in the government who are called ministers will wait for someone to inform them of what it is on those DOS committees decided. Of course, this government is burdened by a number of problems and it is clear that you will not be able to do this, nor have you offered a way to solve any of these problems. Three months ago Mirko Cvetkovic said: "The question of reconstruction is the eternal theme, which occasionally reaches its peak. If we look at the results we've achieved this year, I don't think the winning team should change.' Now I ask you, why do you change the winning team and where did you win it? Did the individual Mirko Cvetkovic, the one or the one who stays in the government, win those who go out now and replace them with new, fresh players, and they win? But much more worrying is the statement by your party's second official, who says there must be a principle of exchangeability and personal responsibility, and you here claim that all ministers have worked wonderfully and that they have all been extremely successful, and that for the situation in which Serbia is today, it is wrong that we have had problems in the last 20 years. Your Serbian citizens did not choose in 2000 to refer in 2011 to the 1990s wars, sanctions, and I don't know what else. You had more than enough time to change everything that wasn't right. As far as the amendments and additions of the Government Act are concerned, it is a very short law, of only six members, and I will show you that they are practically pointless, both legal and logical and whatever you want. First, you say in Article 2: "The Vice-President of the Government may also be a minister." Couldn't he have done it by now? Wasn't Ivica Dacic a police minister? Is he legally three years in the ministry? It's something you said back then, which could, and now all of a sudden it can't. You are further saying, "From the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal to discharge the Minister to the National Assembly's decision, the Minister cannot exercise his powers, but they are taken by a member of the Government whom the Prime Minister has jurisdiction." You used this provision before you even introduced it into the law. Didn't Mirko Cvetkovic give authority to certain ministers to take over certain cabinets? You say, Mr. Markovic, that it is normal and natural and quite functional and that it existed until two years ago, but you don't tell us why you changed something that was normal two years ago, which is natural and it's quite functional. So, you're erasing, you're retrieving certain solutions. The absolute hit is also something that I think will enter into political history both Serbia and parliamentism, of course not by political wisdom, the next member, where members of the government, state secretaries and directors of special organisations in the government service, are said to be obliged to express the government's views in public statements and performances. Does that mean that this obligation never existed before? That would mean you kicked poor young man out of pure peace, not guilty or indemnity, out of the government. Why, when a man had no obligation to represent the government's views? That's what you're prescribing right now. Then it turns out that Mirko Cvetkovic was guilty, that he got up on the wrong foot one day, shot Junior, and that as a hero, he endured it, and for the sake of the interest of the Serbian citizens, I will continue to support the government, it doesn't matter what Mirko got on the wrong foot. Isn't this an affirmation of political unanimity? If the ministers are already experts and experts and if you say it is normal for MPs to decide on their own in which parliamentary group, what will they vote for, what will they represent, then why not apply the same rule to ministers? What I would like to point out is that here you did not include deputy and assistant ministers, whether they too have an obligation to represent the government's views, and then you say in a second position, "The Government's decision is required to represent the public and member of the government who voted against it or was abstained." Who will now assess whether someone was fire enough to explain and advocate the government's position or not? So, where are your criminal provisions, Mr. Markovic? If you prescribe a certain duty, then you also have to prescribe criminal provisions, and say, "This is the way in which whoever does not comply with the Law on Government will be punished." The point is that relations in the RS government are not normal and this is another proof. If relations were normal between you, this would be something that is meant, you wouldn't have thought to codify it. These are some common rights, and this could only have been at the level of some gentleman's agreement, and you couldn't possibly have put this into government, because if there's no normal relationship between you, there's no one to put you in line. What the National Assembly might be able to do, we could send Mrs. Comic to the government, hold a few sessions for you, that she disciplines you, so that when someone exaggerates or says something wrong, then Mrs. Comic knocks him out, so the first 10%, the second 30%, so that you can see how the government's sessions are as consistent as the National Assembly's sessions. Since the time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51168	Replica, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51169	I usually don't respond to insults because I don't think Serbia is too interested in it, and it's particularly not interested in those of whom I find insults in this assembly, but there's a Latin proverb that says, "Mice and on the hill when it comes up, it stays small."
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51170	Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51171	Mr. Nikolic, since you finished that college in the sixth decade, it seems you've read a lot of Latin proverbs and started using them a lot. A few days ago, you compared me to some puppy that passed the Nikola Tesla monument, so it made some kind of an emergency. I also told the press that I don't blame you for comparing me to the puppy, but I do wonder how Alexander Vukic will react to you comparing him to a "literated monument". You have a lot of problems with your party, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51172	Mr. Sarovic, you cannot use terms that are inappropriate to this high house. Really, please, take this as a request.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51173	I really agree, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, but then you had to react when Mr. Nikolic put it out. So, I quote only what he said. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Nikolic, of course you're not answering, I don't expect it from you. There's already been a full 30 months and something more like how I invited you to a TV duel and I've done it countless times. You have proved countless times that you have neither political courage nor enough wisdom to go to such a duel, and on the other hand you want to lead Serbia. If you want to come out, Mr Nikolic, so that we don't fight like this and that we don't put Ms. Slavica Djukic in an awkward situation, choose a television with a national frequency, you have huge money and huge media power, you can do it easily, you can, Mr. Vukic, and you can both together, and explain to the citizens of Serbia whether you will provide what you and your children with for each child in Serbia. That's what the crown question is. It is easy for you, Mr. Nikolic, to go to the Styrofoam because after that styrofoam you will go to an apartment of nearly 200 square feet, but where will you bring the citizens of Serbia back?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51174	Time, and again you've created an atmosphere that I must give the word to Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51175	In order to compete in the Champions League, you need to leave the subcommittee first. Great qualifications are for you to cross over to me to give you your attention, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51176	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51177	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr Minister, of course, that every time we talk about a subject like the Government, it opens up a lot of questions and gives us the opportunity to, regardless of what we are talking today about a phase of a process called the government's reconstruction and the laws that can be passed, we here have debates that most often deal with the government's labour assessments, criticising the government, devising what the government has done and trying to make any effort to achieve better results in the future in Serbia's citizens' interest. There have been stories here about how the government's reconstruction actually deals with itself. I think it's essentially a very wrong finding. So, if the government is trying to reconstruct some goals that are completely visible and that I think are difficult to dispute, then it can't be said that it deals with itself. If Serbia's interest in ensuring political stability by the end of the government's mandate to meet the objectives set out in its formation, in order to achieve an extremely important strategic goal of Serbia, which is to get candidates for EU membership, and that this government, after the crisis that has hit the country and the whole world, would seek new measures that would make it easier for the country to overcome the consequences of the crisis, to find new opportunities for citizens to go through these consequences as painlessly as possible, then it cannot be said that the government's reconstruction is dealing with itself. I do not want to compromise here now with those who have actually avoided the government saying whether or not it makes sense to reconstruct the government, in the direction in which the government is going to shrink, whether or not it makes sense to reconstruct the government in a team that will function more effectively and that, above all, bearing in mind the interests of the Serbian citizens, in its mandate, it achieves the goals it has set before it. What I think is the reason for the government's reconstruction is, above all, the need for political stability. Political stability is the assumption that goals that are important from the point of view of Serbia's citizens are achieved and, if the government's reconstruction can strengthen political stability, then I think that any government reconstruction makes sense and that looking at the details of that reconstruction does not really challenge the very need for reconstruction to happen. What is also one of the reasons for the government's reconstruction is the government's mobilization that in the last year of the term of office, it realises all the goals it set at the very beginning of the mandate. If the government's reconstruction will make it possible to mobilize, then I don't think it makes sense to go into details and talk about whether it's quite ideal to connect the resolutions in the way they are connected. There is no unique practice in the world, and in this sense, every definition of resistor has somewhere in the world the same answer as it was made here. If the purpose of the government's reconstruction is to create new energy, it should not be forgotten that in the formation of the government, they were completely different economic circumstances. Therefore, all members of the government had to be changed in walking, due to the fact that the global economic crisis hit Serbia and that the measures the government had to take were primarily aimed at overcoming the crisis. It is true that, precisely because of the global economic crisis, many of the objectives set by the government have not been realised so far, but no one can dispute the need for the government to mobilise new energy and create conditions to achieve these goals by the end of the term of office. The need to reconstruct the government among other things is the answer to the fact that we are a country in a political transition. We are a country that forms its governments as coalition governments of a number of political parties. At the same time, the political system must be transformed in accordance with the circumstances. So, the cards were shared by the citizens of Serbia, with these cards we are trying to play this game in the best interests of the same Serbian citizens and, if the need to strengthen the credibility of the government, if the government itself estimates that it is necessary, then I really think that the government's reconstruction is something that is necessary. Not only because of this government, but because of the fact that strengthening the credibility of every institution is the task of all of us here together. In this context, any objection and criticism that went towards finding mechanisms to strengthen the credibility of institutions, and thus the credibility of the government, is something that needs to be taken seriously into account and what should be considered as a serious support in future efforts. If an analysis of the work of the government so far has resulted in the government's reconstruction being a solution to acknowledge that some things may not have been done until the end, and that it was possible to do them, regardless of the other circumstances, and if the work analysis has resulted in some things being done despite the difficulties that exist, then I think that the government's reconstruction has full meaning. We can, of course, talk again about whether this government reconstruction is ideal, the best, whether it's better to have one ministry and end someone else, that's a question we can leverage, but I guess neither the citizens nor we will agree on what's the best solution. But no matter what we decide, how we form ministries, what citizens are interested in are the results of the work of these ministries. So, the results are what they expect the government to make at the end of its mandate, and in this sense it is important for us to show confidence in this effort and say that we are giving full faith and support with the belief that the government will do and implement this reconstruction, with one single goal -- to achieve those goals it has set before it, which are indeed in the best interest of Serbian citizens. If the reason for the government's reconstruction is the perception of those obligations before the government by the end of the term of office and for seeking the best solutions for these tasks to be accomplished, then we also say – it is good to carry out the reconstruction of the government. So, speaking to sports dictionaries, if you're playing one game and during this time of the game you've had terribly unfavourable circumstances, such as the global economic crisis, you've had to change the game and change the tactics of that game, and at one point in the final of that game, you realize that if you change the team, if you give that team a new energy, you can win, then I think every coach has an obligation to make those changes, in order to achieve, at the end of that game, that victory. It is also a question of whether the government's reconstruction is its goal, i.e. the result, or whether it is the beginning of establishing new measures that the government will achieve in the interests of citizens. What is very important to us and much more important than whether a resolution should remain and some be attached to someone else, it is really a question of what the government will propose as a set of measures which, on the one hand, will remove the consequences of the economic crisis, and on the other hand enable citizens to facilitate their own life in the post-crisis period and give the perspective for development, so that the country continues to move in a positive direction. Of course, what is also very important is whether the government will establish clear measures to achieve further social reform, which will be confirmed so that European standards, which we consider to be the best standards, which we need to adapt our political and economic system, and whether they will also be confirmed by the EU by Serbia becoming a candidate for EU membership. Of course the question is whether the government was doing the best it could. The question is perfectly legitimate and I think that if someone asks this question with the intention of pointing to what was not done and could have been done or to draw attention to something that was done and should not have been done, then such a discussion is indeed something that contributes to the interests of Serbian citizens. But if someone is trying to deny every result, deny any fact that is related to the legacy that this government has and while it is someone who has sat in previous governments and left this difficult legacy unsolved, then the question of credibility is really being raised by the one who is thus asking a question to this government. This government doesn't always exist. This government inherited many problems, which it solved in conditions that were extremely difficult. I'm not saying she did everything she could or made any mistakes. I think it's the government's job to explain to all the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia whether she's made some kind of failure and whether she could have done more. But what is extremely important for me and the ZES parliamentary group is that this government has shown results in some areas as almost none before that and has allowed Serbia to now, after years of efforts and great resistance from many, even those who are now trying to push Serbia forward faster towards Europe, that the government has made a huge step towards achieving that goal during this period. I believe that in the election of government members, after the adoption of these laws, we will also get answers to these questions and that, depending on these answers, ultimately and after the election of new members of the government, we will have the best evidence that this reconstruction has made sense and give the results that citizens expect of us. The choices are, of course, always something that can be the outcome of a crisis, possibly, if it exists, or the inability to do a job. But the choices that would deepen the crisis, which would delay solving the problem, which would only break processes that are extremely important, I think that indeed anyone responsible cannot call on it. If the government's reconstruction is an opportunity for our team to win on behalf of Serbia, I think we should all support this team and give support to all those efforts aimed at making it easier for Serbian citizens to get through the years after the crisis and to create a chance for economic development and democratisation of Serbia's society to get closer to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51178	Thank you. National MP Momo Colaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51179	Dear Presidents, the presidency, respected ministry representatives, respected MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that the most important, in addition to political stability, is to ensure both economic and social stability. In this respect, expectations are that by reconstructing the government and changing its organisation, we do so. It is also very important and important for us to maintain principles and to insist on the implementation of the principles on which the government was established at the beginning of the coalition's term. I will remind these principles: achieving the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, creating conditions for EU accession as quickly as possible and achieving candidate status, economic development, social security and stability, in particular social justice, and ultimately fighting organised crime and corruption. In economic terms, I think we need to expect the reconstructed government to respect economic development priorities, to establish precise priorities regarding the development of agriculture, construction, infrastructure and, especially when it comes to foreign investment, to develop on priority infrastructure facilities. When it comes to social stability, I think it is especially important to remind those principles on which government policy was being built in the current council, which is, above all, to ensure the social security of those who do not work, those who are looking for work, those who have lost their jobs, the most vulnerable categories of the population and the huge number of pensioners who have low pensions. I would like to stress my satisfaction with the work of ministers from the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, who have made a significant contribution to these very issues that I am talking about – economic and social stability in the country. In particular, I would like to highlight the work and work of Deputy Prime Minister Dr Jovan Krkobbic, above all on the economic and social stability of the state and to ensure that those who are the most vulnerable in this country have secured basic living conditions. As a result, the support that has been reflected in the great support of those he best represents in the government of the Republic of Serbia, a huge number of citizens, especially pensioners and members of their families. What do you expect from a reconstructed government? I'd like to point out three things in particular. First, we must insist that the government be more unique, more rational, more operational, more efficient in its work and operation. She must accept that every day, regardless of what the issue is, she solves at least one problem – to solve at least one problem for a citizen who cannot pay for electricity, who is poor, who is jobless, etc. The second thing, which is also very important, is to establish a real relationship between economic and social policy. We cannot achieve the satisfaction and support of citizens unless we create a balance between economic and social dimensions. In this regard, it is expected, as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, that the government will achieve this. The third thing for us is very important and important that the government achieves in full capacity the principle of social justice, which we have defined at the beginning of the term of office. In this respect, the PUPS shall in particular advocate the achievement of security and regular pension payments for 1,626,752 pensioners. Regardless of certain suggestions, the proposals and remarks we had on the bill, the PUPS parliamentary group will support these laws and vote for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51180	Thank you. Since no one appears from the president or representative of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the proposals of these laws. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51181	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen People's MPs, in order to avoid any confusion, since Mr. Pastor as president of the Minority Group has expressed the view that they will vote in favour, and it is often a practice that there are many things we do not have a unique position on, at first I want to point out that I cannot support any other bill. In particular, the proposal for a law on ministries, because I really don't think there's any valid reason to abolish the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We know the practice. You have, if I'm not mistaken, in 2000 and that federal government, which introduced the minority and human rights ministry, you have the result of that time, when a law on the protection of freedoms, human and minority rights was passed at that level. Then you have this from the previous call, when we are in this House, and during the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, we have also succeeded in adopting the National Councils Act. Does it take a lot of analysis to see what happened when we had a service for human and minority rights instead of the ministry? And I think we've already had practice that this resort was within the Department of State and Local Self-Government and there was absolutely no valid argument to go back to the previous unsuccessful practice. On the other hand, if it is found here that the level of human rights in Serbia is by the highest standards, I will be the first to vote for this and say that we do not need that ministry, but the fact is that we are far from it. In my view, it is even more unacceptable and more difficult to say in this home or anywhere that human rights have reached the highest level. My experience and my knowledge are that we are far from it and that we have a huge job ahead of us to reach that level. Now, it should be different because it's not the same situation with minorities in Vojvodina and in other parts of the country. I'm sure she's not the same. I would not now talk about the situation of Bosniaks in Sandzak, because there is anyone to talk about it, but I am openly telling you that the position and position of Albanians in Presevo Valley or the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, however you will, is far from this qualification that can be heard here and there, that these are the highest standards. There's still a lot of work to be done to normalize the situation. So in the political direction, I mean, we're sending a bad message by abolishing this ministry. There were other ministries that could have been abolished before the minority ministry. I leave it to you to see which could have been abolished before, and in this domain there is far more complex and sensitive work to be done and it was not time to abolish the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I think it's a political stance, a political assessment, and it doesn't correspond to reality on the ground. If not for other minorities, then let me tell you about the situation we have in the field. There are a thousand examples – problems in education, in the field of culture, in the official use of language. Or to talk about 2002, when the Federal Parliament passed a law in which, among other things, one member discusses the effective participation of minorities in the social and public life of the state. Where are we? We are talking there about the essential things involving Albanians in state bodies and institutions. Something just started working here and there. Otherwise, there are still 90% of Albanians without any Albanian employee. Unfortunately, I think it's a practice. So I'm saying that there are a lot more serious and sensitive things to do to behave like this, and especially to give such and similar explanations. After all, I ask and repeat the same questions a hundred times. I refer them to Minister Dinkic and I don't get an answer, I direct them to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and I don't get an answer from there either. For example, take the disastrous economic situation, that in Albanians, the unemployment rate is over 70%. We pretend that we don't see it, that it doesn't exist, that it's an ideal situation and that we've reached the world's top levels. Not to go any further, I think it's a politically unacceptable proposal. After all, one ministry doesn't solve it, we're aware of that. There needs all the ministries, the whole government to have a far more serious approach, that these life problems, the very sensitive problems that are present on the ground, are being solved more seriously and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51182	Thank you. The People's MP, Jelena Trivan, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51183	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in such a difficult economic time, in such a difficult time of unemployment and crisis, it is very difficult to defend any political attitude and political decision, given that this is an ideal time for criticism rather than criticism, and for an incredible dose of demagogy. In that sense, when you have economically unsatisfactory citizens, any measure can be blacked out and viewed as an expression of self-loathing or demagogy, but if you have a small measure of well-meaning, you can see differently. In that sense, this reconstruction can also be observed. On the one hand, someone will say that it is a product of the ruling coalition to be held in power, but as a counterargument, you immediately realize that this ruling majority has not lost its majority at any moment, and that, in that sense, in a move like this, because of self-preservation, it did not have to decide. But there was something else that made this have to be done, which is the need and interest of the citizens to do this, and in that sense we can at least agree on one thing and agree, which is that it is the government's obligation to serve the citizens who chose it. And citizens wanted to have a smaller and more efficient government and citizens asked that those who ran it be solidarity with them, and if the same government made a decision to reduce the number of employees, if it had taken restrictive measures that are the product of the economic crisis, it was logical to do something about its own efficiency. If that's enough, we can argue about it. Whether it's just a sign, whether it's just a symbol, and we can talk about it, but as a political symbol, it's very important for the government to share the fate of its citizens. Also, we can balance on whether the government's reconstruction is needed now, a year before the elections, or whether we, led by nihilism, auto-destruction and criticism, could have said so much to this people -- never mind, we could have squandered another year. However, economists argue that one spent year in economic terms requires four years to recover, and that in that sense, the only resource that Serbia certainly does not have - is time. One year for better and more efficient management is not small. If the government's reconstruction is its goal, then it is deeply wrong and then it is a failure of the needs and expectations of the citizens. However, if it is a means to do something faster and better and if it really is, then this government has done what the citizens asked of it, and the citizens are at this point looking for a very simple thing – a better life and a faster economic recovery. In this sense, this reconstructed government has, above all, two objectives – the economic recovery of the country and the rise of citizens' standards, on the one hand, and, on the other, the detention of jobs related to obtaining candidacy and the continuation of the European pathway. That's why I expect it to solve problems more quickly and efficiently in both of these fields. A fellow MP said he was born with authority. I'm not sure that's true on a personal basis, but on an institutional basis, it's quite certain that it's being built. In that sense, this assembly is an example of how all of us together, regardless of our personal authority, didn't have it as long as there were fights and pointless debates here and how we suddenly got it when we arranged this Parliament's work. And the government's authority is built through legal and various other solutions and new behavioural models, and in this sense, the legal solutions that are ahead of us are simply the result of the development of democracy in this country and the development of democratic practice. If we know that democracy is the rule of the majority, and if you are asking that an individual comply with the decisions of the majority, someone will say that it is censorship, that it is the abolition of freedom of speech, and someone will say that it is respect for democracy, and that in that sense you must find a way to ensure that your ideas are achieved by providing the majority within the institution, not by losing the majority or not having it, and then destroying in public the decisions of the institutions you accept. It was a practice of various governments. It is a practice that has been tolerated here, for the government to be a collective body as a set of individuals and their individual policies, instead of being teamwork, solidarity and common policy. Any measure that contributes to the respect of the decisions made by the majority should be welcomed, so much so that citizens seek the Government that has authority and that has unity and that their confusion will not deepen with different messages and different interpretations of joint decisions. I hope this government has more authority and more credibility. The third thing that is important and behind the huge expectations of citizens is that this government responds more quickly, with more compassion and more empathy to their daily needs and demands, and that government policy meets the real needs and real problems of the population. In this sense, this reconstruction only makes sense if there is a different policy behind it, a more efficient policy, primarily on the social plan and on the employment plan, on investment and job security. Therefore, it is also necessary to welcome the announcement of some new economic measures, the fact that credit burdens on citizens will be extended by the time they can make it easier and better to live and raise their salaries. It is important to consider that subsidies given for new jobs go both to domestic and domestic businesses, to think about how in a different way, through different funds, to those living on the edge of existence urgently and urgently to meet, how subsidies in agriculture, which currently exist and which are quite large, are distributed in a fairer way, so that they go to undeveloped regions and where they need it most. We should think about everything we've missed so far. The legitimate question is why it has not been done so far, but it is also legitimate and yet quite unusual in our political practice that someone who has not been well corrected in walking. So far, we've shown incredible stubbornness, because we thought it was proof that we were right, that we were pushing in a direction that was wrong, and that we were insisting on people's solutions that were wrong, and that politicians were absolutely appalled by responsibility. When I looked at the history of the last ten years, the history of democratic Serbia, one single member of the government has been replaced for the last ten years, it was Vuk Obradovic, and you will agree that in these ten years many of them have been ordered to be replaced. As a result, the principle of accountability has somehow been lost in our society, and if this means changing such a political practice, then it is good. Finally, I would like to support my fellow Members of the Minority Group, agreeing that the decision on which the ministry will survive speaks a lot about the political position as well. However, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights did not cease to exist, but continued to exist in an extended portfolio and extended composition, and to see whether this topic, which is marginalised or not, depends on political will and legal solutions. In this government, for sure, neither minority nor human rights will be marginalized, and if the fear and frustration of the Manjins, which I understand, can be removed from the amendments they have proposed, we are working to adopt these amendments and thus show the political position that these rights are very important to us. In the end, without wanting to talk about human resources that are not safe for now, they will only be announced by the prime minister, but judging by the announcements, the next government will have three women. It's March 8th. We have brought many legal solutions concerning women's equality and it seemed in the years behind us that the eighth March as a holiday has been overcome, and the issue of equality of women has been deplaced. The participation of women in both this government and this parliament and everywhere in life is far from satisfactory, but the government is only the tip of the iceberg, given that this disenfranchisement begins in the family and ends in the highest executive government. In this sense, we should also think about it today and in creating these bodies that come together with the creation of a new government in a different way, the position of women should be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51184	Thank you. Since we agreed not to work longer than 19.30 hours, the word is Mr. Ivan Andric, and after that we will be done for the day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51185	Thank you. In the beginning, I have to express one valuable point of view. I don't expect the minister to suit me, but this situation is so obvious where we live in a different country than the one you live in. Every day there's this gap between people who make up power and who don't make it bigger. I listened carefully to everything everyone said (something here, something worse) and simply this so clear appearance of this unconsistent attitude that is being expressed from various parties of the ruling coalition should not go unnoticed. Let's start in a row. The arguments or the subject of reconstruction and the cycle that we are talking about politically are, in fact, over today. When we received this bill, it is quite clear that whoever was naive, I will count myself here, who thought this was some chance for Serbia, which will help us, that the political crisis is a situation in which we will be able to take advantage of, to look at what our weaknesses are, and to correct and fulfill some plan by June, September, October this year, we get candidate status and move on, through new elections, I personally thought it possible. I thought at the moment when Prime Minister Cvetkovic had this escape from his personality and became an untapped mountainous one, he replaced the Deputy Prime Minister for one afternoon without any knowledge and announced serious reforms in the functioning of the government itself. Today, I don't know how long it's been since that moment, ten or fifteen days, it's quite clear that the ruling majority doesn't have the political power to do what needs to be done. This lack of strength is seen in every statement that you make, in every bill, in the way this session is conducted, where our prime minister, the man who decided to regain his authority after three years, is not here with us today – he probably has a shortcut to work and I would like to know what is more important than the reconstruction of the government he allegedly is leading – and without any clear desire to underline the line that was necessary to draw. You said, Mr. Markovic, that gaining EU membership candidate status is the government's main goal. Does this mean that this reconstruction is done in such a way that this goal is achieved as soon as possible? On what basis do we see it? If that's true, why is the foreign minister still Vuk Jeremic? This ministry has done nothing to make this country a candidate for membership. He's even been working very actively on us losing this status right now. So that's not the point. Is the target any of them? Someone complains there's no more Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Well, that's the only advantage of this reconstruction. It's better if he's gone than if Chiplic were a minister, it's less damage. Since 2000, no one has polluted the area of human rights more than the former Constitutional Court judge, a member of the NIS Management Board, and then the Human and Minority Rights Minister Svetozar Ciplic. In Sandzak, elections are repeated, where more than 70% of the citizens are boycotting the elections, and we all await the 17th or 18th April to see if there will be incidents, and the minister, as a man without any sense of the issue he deals with, has trampled very hard, ignored criminal charges, police investigations, everything. Is that why he was replaced? What's the reason? Is the reason a cheaper state, more functional government? Well, then why do you need the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? This ministry is not even capable, in your eyes, of participating in negotiations with Pristina. Those negotiations are run by someone else who sits elsewhere. What is the purpose of this ministry if this basic job that makes it impossible to do it? Why do we need the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora? It's a scandalous ministry. And finally, the highlight of all the summits, the minister without portfolios. I guess it's part of the government's total cost-effectiveness. There wasn't any of it at all. These talks were not to make the government more functional, to achieve a European path. That country you live in is beautiful, successful, no problem at all. Human rights are at a great level, it doesn't matter that there in Sandzak almost started a war. The economy is great. Well, that's all because of Slobodan Milosevic, back in 1995. I'm sorry, Mr. President. So, as a symbol of something that was long ago, nothing happened. I'm sorry, when you sat in power, this country had 250,000 more people working. The crisis was not only in Serbia, it was in Croatia, Bosnia, England. Did you watch TV? It was a car show in Geneva on Sunday. Did you see the car industry stand on its feet? All manufacturers have new models, no crisis. As long as it took you to realize that there's a crisis, now you're going to need five times more time to realize that it's gone. And not a single shred of responsibility, just one political market in which those who showed that they were willing to do the most, the most, the most. Those who insisted on it in that mutual war, they won. They won because the reconstruction was not done, the reduction of the number of ministers was not done according to functionality but because each party retains the portfolio it had. That's very clearly said on television, since the prime minister never took the courage to come to this room and tell us. We who deal with politics, and we want to influence that life to improve so that, Mr. Minister, we share responsibility with you, are not disabled to us, unless we want to report to "The impression of the week" as viewers. The prime minister avoids this hall because he knows this is the only place where he will hear some fact that will drag him into his picture of Serbia as a prosperous country, leaders in the Balkans, oases of peace and stability, and I don't know what everything. And what do we have today? We have a government where the Prime Minister is essentially abolishing, wesna will talk about it a little later, where the prime minister gives him the portfolio of the Ministry of Finance, and he will not formally have a function that no one else, not even he, believes he has, and we have a reconstruction, which was the only possible way out of the hole you're in without embarrassing yourself today, but to embarrass yourself in a month, two, three or five. And the problem is not solved by the fact that all ministers are forbidden to say what they disagree with because you did not remove the cause of the problem, which is that there is no vision, no unity and no plan. You said it was in the Rules of Procedure, and now it's in the law. What is the next phase – Constitution, shooting if the minister has a different attitude? This will not be solved by forbidding someone to talk about it. What you had to pay attention to was the cause, and for that you had no political power. Whoever believed, and I'm counting myself on you, that the crisis is for a smart chance, and for those other obstacles, today in this country, it's stupid. And only our minister doesn't know who the solutions are for the government. All new faces of our political scene – Dusan Petrovic, Verica Kalanovic, Pedja Markovic, Zoran Stankovic. Everyone spins like a uringishpill, changes the resors – one agriculture, one infrastructure, one mining, one defense, one health, one of these. How long? Just so you don't let someone who's better quality and who's gonna do better by proving how incompetent you were. Today, a point has been put on this political circus called reconstruction, new energy, new people. From this moment on, Serbia knows that nothing nice will happen again until the election, and you are left to practice your political endurance and to postpone these elections as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-08-0.u51186	Thank you. I thank Mr. Minister and the Government's representatives. Dear Members of the People, I thank you for your participation in the work. Tomorrow at 10:00, we'll continue our work. The People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic will have the word.
