ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on my official record, I find that the session is attended by 76 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs who place their identification cards in the electronic system for MPs, please do so to determine how many MPs are present in the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 86 parliamentary cards are present in the electronic system, which means that the Rules of Procedure set out the conditions for the start of work, and that another number of MPs present in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65319	I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of the motions of Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, I have been invited to attend today's session and Dusan Nikezic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ruzica Stoiljkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2012. You have received amendments to the Bill: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čaran Šormaz, Žajan Šović, Dušan Šović, Vjerica Rade, Žačana Pop-Lazić, Aleksandar Martinović, Jadranko Vuković, Esad Judžević, Bajram Omeragić, Riz Halimad Šlažar, Dubar Šlažar Žalić, Dubović, Dubović, Žažar Žalić Žaković, Žačan Žažar, Žažović, Žaržović, Žaržović, Žar, Žaržaržović, Žar Žar Žar, Žaržović, Žaržaržarjanović, Žaržović, Žar, Žar, Žar Žaržar Žar Žaržaržar, Žažažaržar, Žažak, Žažar, Žažak, Žažak, Žažak, Žažak, Ž. The amendment was written by the MPs: together with Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic on December 26, 2011, Riza Halimi on Article 7. Breaks 3. Chapter 3. point 14 (Office of sustainable development of underdeveloped areas), Kenan Hajdarevic, under Sections 17 and 20, and Article 7 of Sections 53 and 54 and Judita Popovic, respectively, to Article 7. (Antidoping Agency and Youth Fund). You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65320	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment submitted to Article 1 has been submitted in a certain way and in protest to the draft budgetor because we have one situation that every time a budget is made, the member of the 1st and the revenue sides of the Serbian budget, in particular in the general section, has always changed the methodology of showing income and expenditure. Whether it is in the desire for MPs to be confused or to hide from the public something that is obviously deviating from the official policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this methodology is constantly changing. You go even so far that when you do budget rebalances, the methodology applied in Article 1 is different to the basic budget law. Now, it's not our desire to outsmart here with the proposer, to make some new budget to maybe make it easier for him to do a certain job, but we want to point out some of the illogicalities that are in this budget itself, which is when the revenue side of the budget is seen that when someone takes the paper, the pen and the digitron, they agree completely, and we don't want to go into it, but the paper, the pen and the digitron are a little different from life. Here is the first foreign law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2011 budget and there are tax revenues of 707,345,000. The 2012 budget is 750 billion, higher by 43 billion. Someone explain to me how he thinks these funds are coming when we reduced the income side by applying the Law on the financing of local self-government. There is already income in the rebalancing process which has been achieved and which we no longer have in 2012. Is it possible in Serbia, as it is, with the economy as we have, for example, that the value added tax in the country will be higher by 6 billion or 6% and the gross product growth of 1.5% is planned, or that the value added tax will be higher by 15 billion, and that is again about 8% with a planned growth of 1.5%. The fact that you are unable to realise this is also seen under the Budget Rebalancing Act, because by the same law you have the reserve funds of 87 billion 541 million dinars and you transfer those funds to 2012 to 50 billion. Mr. Prime Minister, you owe an explanation to the Assembly whether 37 billion dinars of reserve funds were spent and if so, at least admit to the National Assembly that you had to spend them on the wrong projection of the Republic of Serbia's revenue side of the budget. If one of the reasons is that you get IMF funding, and we can understand that, but don't let us hire a country to run an election campaign, because those debts don't pay back just the government anymore, they bring back citizens and we have a responsibility to them. And all the failures based on every part of the policy, whether in politics, whether in any other, or even when it comes to KIM and the EU, are based on the economy and economy in which citizens live. If they're satisfied, it's much easier for you to run the foreign policy that matters to the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65321	The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, this amendment demanded that the Serbian Radical Party move two billion dinars from the position of the National Investment Plan to the agricultural subsidy position. I would not now like to enter into this argument, it is written in difolt, as well as for the vast majority of amendments, as well as for any argument of the government regarding amendments proposed by the Serbian Radical Party, and you have in one inappropriate way brought the end of the principle discussion, when you called on the Serbian Radical Party to support something that no one had yet known, and the government allegedly did, so the government has abolished some loans to "Srbigas", or finally gave up buying the plane, and the Serbian Radical Party is proposing this to you for the third or fifth time through all the laws and amendments and additions of the Budget Law. It never occurred to you to accept it once. Then you invited us to support that you finally remembered that it could still be done. What you wrote in your explanation is that it does not contain a concrete proposal for an increase, or reduction, Mr Cvetkovic, you can do this with the Government Regulation, here's to accept the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party, so by one sublaw act, if you agree, we will do how to transfer the funds that we have proposed from a failed concept called the National Investment Plan, to the position of subsidies to agriculture. But what causes real dissatisfaction is that you from the Government are referring to the Budgetary System Act and you say that this amendment is not in line or contrary to the Budgetary System Act, and the first one, as prime minister, as a proposing of this budget, is not respecting the Budgetary System Act, or the opposite of the Budgetary System Act and the Budgetary Calendar, you are adopting today, or we are discussing this budget today. Not because of you, I will read this for the public, why is it so, Mr Cvetkovic, listen to what your co-workers at the Ministry say – when one government official, your cabinet member, says something like this, he deserves, if he doesn't resign, then you should change or resolve him. I think it's some Djokovic. Now watch this -- when the IMF is there, it's stronger than our law, it can't be put together without them, so we have to adapt to them. And now you are passing your law, and you are burdening me or the Serbian Radical Party not to respect the Budgetary System Act, because we did not say in our proposal what is the plan and the spending programme, the reduction, or the increase of certain positions. For the Serbian Radical Party, agriculture in this country is much more important than a bunch of projects that have proved to be pointless, which you, Mr Cvetkovic, for blackmailing the coalition, had to finance the cost of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the NIP is concerned, wherever you turn and wherever you see it, there was almost no result. That's one thing. As money was spent, that's another thing. But now that you've given 40 billion dinars to local self-government more, the question is, what is this amount of money going to do at the NIP position? That's one thing. The second thing, Mr Cvetkovic, you said that the budget deficit of 140 billion in principle is for capital investment, 140 of those billions, come on, take these 5.6 out of the NIP, which has been defined by 40 billion dedicated to local self-government, for almost 200 billion dinars in the coming year, I feel that capital investments in Serbia will flourish. Unlike you and your European policy, we believe that agriculture should gain much more importance, because these countries that are much more powerful in this regard than we and whose goods we cannot be competitive in international markets, are not strong and powerful and superior to Serbia because they have a more quality country or they can buy and get something that we cannot, but because, Mr Cvetkovic, you know it very well as a doctor of economic sciences, because their countries through subsidies in agriculture are much more adequate and until we do so, and with you at the helm, it will not happen, because you are bringing the budgets from compromises, not because they should be in the function of developing this country. Mr Cvetkovic, this budget has shown that none of the budgets you have presented to the National Assembly are an expression of the knowledge and commitment of the state, but of the compromise, because if the budgets had been adequate before this, you would be responding to external challenges today much better than you do. This is an emergency and those who are criticizing you, and they voted and proposed this budget are absolutely right. This is a technical document that neither you personally nor you politically nor partyally care about. As far as the SRS is concerned, we believe that you could spend these two billion dinars through the government's regulation subsidies, since the regulations are not foreign to you, especially those related to KIM, in the southern Serbian area and that you spend these resources in the subsidisation of fruit, vegetables and livestock, of course. Why does the SRS say that, Mr. Cvetkovic? In one analysis of external trade relations, which I'm convinced you know, only farming rules are surpluses. But what the structure of that surplus is, I'll tell you now. The largest deficit in the total foreign trade exchange is the real Belgrade city as a region, followed by Vojvodina, but, Mr Cvetkovic, the smallest volume of exchange was achieved by the southern and eastern parts of Serbia, but in their misery alone, they achieved a surplus. As little as it is, only the south and east of Serbia, precisely because of agriculture, have achieved a surplus. We believe that both in Jablanjska and in Pcinjska, and in Toplička, both in Nisavska and in Pirotski County, much more resources should be given or allocated to agriculture. It's not two billion, but for a poor woman who is ruling in southern Serbia, that would really be enough. In the area of Jablaničko, Niško and Toplički district, fruit and vegetables production is affirmed, and in part in the Pcinjska and Pirotski district to affirm meat production, that is, livestock production, because there are all the preconditions and there are resources to do such a thing down there. The people of the government expect such support. We also believe that the processing industry would get a momentum in one way, with the overall growth in that area down there starting to come to an end slowly and that this would be a motive, the reason in the opinion of the SRS for people to stay down in that area, so that tomorrow we have arguments to defend that area below, Mr Cvetkovic, because we are being attacked both from the south and the east. Instead of dealing with the tracks in a circle of two, you should be dealing with the economic misfortunes of people in the area who are clearly serving you only to achieve the revenue side of the budget. As you've designed it, we can only imagine when you're going to realize it. Because of you and the public, I'll just tell you, Mr. Cvetkovic, that by the end of 11 months this year, on the revenue side, you've made almost 80 billion dinars through tax revenues less. If you convince us in the SRS that by the end of the year, in December, 80 billion incomes will be made through taxes, then we are indeed, unable to express ourselves to the public what and who, and then, no less than 6% increased tax revenues in 2012. You play with the budget, you play with the people, you play with this country. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, and all your political partners and associates, in the SRS' opinion, don't deserve to sit where you sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65323	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65324	I'll use time as an authorised representative. I'd just like to say a few more sentences with this brilliant amendment of Mr. Stevanovic. The main objection of the SRS is that no one knows who was doing this budget, whether the IMF or the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is it Mr. Mark Allen or you, I think, as prime minister? It's just amazing. We have this scandalous statement by Mr. Djokovic, and I really think if something like that has been declared, and it is, as Mr. Stevanovic says, a direct violation of the Constitution and a direct violation of the Law on the Budgetary System. Please pay attention to that. That's really inadmissible. Em's budget was 45 days late, em done by someone from the IMF, or Mr. Mark Allen, who ruined Hungary and Poland, who now have a $600 billion debt together. It's a disaster. You didn't answer us in the principle debate why is that? Is it possible that the IMF is leading our economic policy? It's simple, we're amazed if that's the case. That, as Mr Stevanovic says, and as the SRS says, it also shows a form of declaration of compliance with EU rules following the law on the budget, where it literally writes -- that the proposed solutions are the result of negotiations with the IMF. It's a scandal. If the IMF is setting up a budget for us, then the budget is something that can be described as negative and bad for our pensioners, employees, educators and all those so-called. IMF measures are guessing. The budget will be good for Fiat, for foreign banks and for all those lenders working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65325	The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65326	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have no dilemma who wrote this budget, this is all we could write. I mean, not us, but this government. No one else. So, the IMF determines the conditions under which we can get some funding, and then, thanks to false projections, thanks to the revenue side that is unrealistic, we're supposed to meet the IMF's provisions. This isn't about the IMF, it's about an incompetent government that needs to be in charge abroad. In Article 2, pages 5 and 6, I'll read them. Otherwise, the amendment was rejected, because they must provide safe revenue for budget financing and cover indifference. But it is said -- to finance the budget deficit and to pay off the principal debt, funds from the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia can be used in 2012 to the amount that does not threaten the liquidity of that account. In the position of the 6th member, it is said – if at the end of 2012 there is a loan from the consolidated Treasury account, depending on the conditions on the financial market, it can be transferred in the following year. If this was all arranged properly and we had some good experience with this government, this could be in the budget law. I'm just going to read Article 2 of this law. It says – planned debt-based incomes are less than funds needed to finance deficits, pay off debt and purchase of financial assets of 50 billion and 85 million dinars. Mr. President, you've been broadcasting Eurobonds worth 87,541,486,481 dinars this year to cover the daily liquidity of the account. You're missing 37 billion. Then ask that you can do more. So, without knowledge, without the approval of the National Assembly, without the knowledge of the public, 37 billion disappeared somewhere. Then you're asking to be able to use funds from the consolidated vault account, even more, and you don't have to return them unless you're jeopardizing liquidity. On what criteria is this threatened or not threatened by liquidity? That's the problem. If the revenue side of the budget, its reality, is always the government, no one else. It is the government that creates economic conditions to carry out some economic activity on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Anything you can't charge or you're incompetent, you want to make up for the loans. When you look at the expenditure side that is not yet in terms of income, just to see that there is some kind of co-operation office with civil society, in the 2011 budget – two million, in the 2012 budget – 37 million. How much is it for two, three, four thugs sitting in an office, getting paid and doing nothing? Then you talk about how you're having trouble with the agencies, but we'll talk about it later. That's why we need to be in charge, because someone's got to get paid and someone's got to run the 2012 campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65327	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is four minutes. National MP Dejan Mirovic has the word, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65328	Just for a little while. I want to make one thing clear. It is good that the SNS would not criticise the IMF and make one difference ideologically and each between the SRS and the SNS, because they believe the government is guilty of this budget. We believe the government is an instrument, and the IMF wrote that budget. This is the difference between the SNS and the SRS, because they must not criticise the IMF and the EU, etc. I just want to point out for the public that difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65329	It's been used 30 seconds since the authorized representative's time. You have rights to the replica. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will no longer consider whether it is the IMF, the EU, etc., but the views and opinions of the SNS are that a successful government that rules in line with the interests of Serbian citizens, no one can blackmail. That's the big difference between you and me. You would have accepted blackmails from one side or the other, and that's now a matter between the SRS, DS, an agreement on who's with who's the strategic partner. In the first place, the government's failure to look at the whole campaign was based on one political goal, and they forgot about the citizens and their economic interests. That's why we have this budget, which is why we have this situation with both the EU and Kosovo, but don't blame us for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65331	Right on line, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65332	Very short. I think it's the IMF, say the IMF is bad. Don't say the phrases and the projections of Alexander Vukic in one way or another. Tell them it's the IMF who's writing this budget. That's what I'm calling you, nothing else. Be specific.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65333	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65334	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 3 applies to those famous guarantees, guarantees and public debt, that is to say, the borrowing of this country that has already exceeded every measure, and there is no more logic. It is unfortunate that a society that comes into the situation to pay and pension must pay by borrowing abroad and borrowing. Unfortunately, this government has contributed greatly to the significant increase in public debt compared to the moment it took over in 2008. That's the information you need to tell me. It is that we MPs repeat them as parrots, but there is no response from the government – in what way and which is a strategy to get out of this amount of debt and how they think we can improve the state of business and general debt of Serbia in some future period, regardless of the promise we had when this government was reconstructed, it seems to me at the beginning of this year and the promise that much more will take care of the exit, much more to change economic growth and the economy of Serbia. Unfortunately, everything continued as it did years ago. This public debt, which was 8.7 billion in 2008, is now around 14.5 billion, according to the republican government in this budget. In these four years alone, we've been in charge of about six billion euros. That means we missed two billion euros every year, so we could maintain this level of public spending. This year, as for borrowing, we had an even worse situation than in years behind us. I think that, according to some economists, every day we are in debt for about 9-9.5m euros. When you look at it at some monthly level, you'll see that, in fact, every month we eat about 200 kilometers of highways, and then we wonder why the corridors go so slowly, why do they invest so little in capital investments? When you don't have the production, when you don't have the economy, when you have one bad economic policy, you can't expect anything else. What is more critical, when it comes to government and this draft budget, is the fact that we are increasingly in debt with commercial banks. Twelve times the debt in commercial banks compared to 2008. That's when you're about 18 million dinars of debt, today you have over 200 million debts. On this side, significantly more unfavourable loans, significantly more risky loans during this previous period. As for guarantees that are also the subject of Article 3 on which the SNS has submitted the amendment, there is a situation, I would say, very badly. It is estimated that around a billion euros will not be able to bring back public enterprises and that public enterprises most of which work and make losses do not have their own income. I think about three billion euros in losses in the previous year was public enterprises. In this sense, you are projecting some new debts from some 318 billion dinars, meaning a guarantee for another three billion euros when it comes to public enterprises. In view of the fact that one of the major failures of this government in the previous period was to address the state and efficiency of public enterprises, that you have done nothing in this respect, as has happened since 2000 for public enterprises, party companies, extremely inefficient and unable to go out on the market and oppose any serious competition. So, it's still going into all citizens' debt. The price is paid by all citizens and, of course, this Article 3 has been unacceptable for SNS and all that is happening in terms of citizens' duties and the economy of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65335	Two minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 3. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 1 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic, who has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65336	The amendment requires that the amount for travel expenses to the National Assembly of Serbia be reduced by 60 million dinars, i.e. 135,223,000 to 75,223,000 dinars and to focus on division 51, for preventive health care. This savings would relate to the travel costs of Members in the context of the so-called European integration. Since the budget is restrictive due to negative economic indicators, uncertain economic recovery and the economic crisis, as an inescapable excuse, a quite certain and clear reluctance of the EU's position that we are not needed there, this is a completely logical and appropriate way of saving money intended for the travel of MPs to the European Parliament. Those vain journeys should be reduced to the least possible. The remaining funds for travel to the European Parliament will be sufficient to justify the political effect of these visits financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Money should be focused on improving the preventive health care of the population. The funds intended for health prevention amount to less than a tenth of the total funds identified for healthcare, which is insufficient given the increase in chronic diseases. Instead of investing more in preventing and preventing disease, which is much cheaper and more efficient, you remove preventive institutions such as the Diabetes Advisory and expensive loans, you finance a health system at secondary and tertiary level, treating the consequences of the disease with large funds. Up to 80% of the resources are allocated in countries with developed healthcare systems for prevention. We have that percentage about 40. Although the health minister has said he is satisfied with the budget, we from the SRS believe that due to the lack of money in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, or health insurance, of 32 million dinars, in this programme budget of analytical planning activities, according to the Ministry of Health at the Health and Family Committee, only 915.999.000 dinars were allocated for public health. That's why we added 60 million to that figure that we took away from the travel expenses of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When subtracting the percentage that is allocated to health care from the total mass for employees' salaries, which is 47.9%, of the remaining 52.1% for treatment is 94.7%, leaving insufficient means for prevention. The funds will be less than anticipated because of the unreal revenue side, i.e. the expected inflow of tax and contribution on various grounds in the following year. It is not possible to achieve this kind of business activity. Besides, we have experience from this and the previous year, and you're still announcing a new wave of economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65337	One minute used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 2 and 50 of the amendments were submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65338	The essential remarks of the SRS on this very bad budget are, among other things, travel costs. I want, first of all, to remind the public that the specialized services you provided to spend 38 billion dinars, no one living knows what these specialized services are. Services contracted by 12 billion dinars, it's mostly labor contracts, it's a scam where you won't hire new people, and 12 billion of you predicted to hire your party staff. The grant to NGOs is 5.5 billion and travel costs 10 billion. Now, what we've had since your travels so far, it's best seen in the current state of Serbia, if you want economic, social, national, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. So it would be better if you hadn't moved anywhere, we'd be better off than you've traveled and now you're planning to travel for 10 billion dinars. You predicted Boris Tadic travels for a amount of 66 million and 802,000 dinars. We in the SRS believe that this is absolutely unnecessary and that this amount should be reduced by 30 million and that these funds are directed towards the Kosovo-Mitrovina administrative district, given the fact that the people there live very hard, that you do nothing or economically to help them. We know that you are not doing anything to help them stay in Serbia, on the contrary, doing everything in order to literally recognise the false state of Kosovo, and by completely marginalising them in the budget, talks about the attitude of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards the Serbs in KIM. You did not accept the amendment, of course, and you said that because the reduction of funds under this section would jeopardise the exercise of the basic functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, and especially given the upcoming international activities of the President. The president of the Republic has one basic obligation, which is respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and he is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I guess no one has broken the Constitution as many times as Boris Tadic. It would be really better not to travel at all because he did nothing good for Serbian citizens on his travels. We do not know what future travel is planned, when you were ordered clearly on December 9th to recognise Kosovo if you want to join the EU. We, of course, advocate that Serbia should not go to the EU, but to remind what Boris Tadic is on behalf of travel costs this year, which is still running, as he spent that money. He was traveling somewhere, not known where, so then he met with Agim Ceku at the Skopje airport. Then he went to Srebrenica to say there that the Serbs were a genocide people and that he apologized to someone. Then he went to Ivo Josipovic, so he apologized we don't know whose name. So, if he continues to travel in this way, let him sit on Andric's Venice until his mandate expires and he can't move on the street, let alone get out of Serbia. As for your European friends, in order to humiliate Serbia more, Angela Merkel comes to you and says: "Listen, Boris Tadic, you will recognise Kosovo or there is no Serbia in the EU." (President: National MPs, travel expenses Angela Merkel cannot be the subject of our budget, so I ask you on the subject from the budget. You've obviously predicted Boris Tadic travels... (President: National MPs, you must listen to me when I address you, for you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. As long as you comment on the provisions of the position, you have complete freedom, the budget is an important law and it is important to hear every point of view. The moment you wander off and talk about travel expenses for other countries' budgets, I need to remind you to get back on the subject. Please continue on the agenda. I remind the MPs that no one here has the right or authority to vote for this budget, to vote for such costs as Boris Tadic, as his travel expenses mean the expenses of the president of the Republic of Serbia in his treasonous policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65339	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. I ask all MPs to present their argument, of course, in accordance with their political views, but to refrain from the threats of other MPs, what they may, which they must not, which they may not, which they may or may not vote for. In addition to being a violation of the constitutional rights of other MPs, it is also a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the polite treatment of one MPs with another, so it reminds you all of what we are obliged to do when it comes to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I hear a throw – at what. You're absolutely right, what is said in Vojvodina, what is right. Language is a miracle. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Please don't throw away. I can run a session that's appropriate to the throw-offs, and I can apply the Rules of Procedure and do what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do and to make sure that for every tasteless, rude, rude throw-offs, I give the measures of caution. It is an obligation and I ask you that the will of all the chairmans, that we try to establish the practice of the dialogue, do not understand as a message that it is free to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, because it is not. It is up to us together to apply all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and we will apply them all to everyone. On Article 7 of Sections 2 and 50, the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65340	As far as the SNS is concerned, we have tried wherever we can to point out some gaps and some excessive spending in our opinion, because if this should already be a thrifty budget, and it should be much more thriftful than it is projected, in a series of offices that are needed, partly needed when it comes to the Republic Government, we seem to be spending too much. Too much is spent when it comes to the Office of Media Cooperation. This budget envisions some 62m dinars in the following year, and that is about 620,000 euros. So, only the press co-operation office spends 50,000 euros a month. Is it so necessary for the government to do this? Does that office need that kind of money to spend? It seems inappropriate to us for this moment where we are and it was possible to make significant savings here without the Republic government doing so. It's probably one of the reasons and the upcoming elections, but if the government wants the government to present itself in the best possible light through the government, I think it should look for other ways and other sources of funding, not in this amount in the republican budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65341	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of section 3, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 7 of Sections 3, 4 and 52. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed that in the part of the budget relating to the Office of Professional and Operational Affairs, so on. The office for professional and operational affairs in the negotiating process, when it comes to salaries, allowances and employees' fees, changes this by transferring 11 million to the Ministry of Defence, i.e. grants to compulsory social security organisations, i.e., Serbianly speaking, for military pensioners. We believe that this solution is absolutely complete, first of all because fiction, Mr. Cvetkovic, is that there is some kind of office for professional and operational affairs in the negotiation process. We talked about it here in the National Assembly several times. So basically all negotiations with the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija are being conducted by one man, Borislav Stefanovic. If you as Prime Minister can name me one more name on that so-called. To the negotiating team, I would be very pleased if you would inform me, as well as all other MPs. So, all these conversations, of course, secret behind closed doors and, of course, behind the back of the people's MPs and Serbian citizens, one man, Borislav Stefanovic, doesn't need for his salary this much money, better to give money to the military pensioners, so that we don't have those tragic scenes happening in Belgrade these days, that people have to jump off the floors, from the buildings, so that the defence minister or you as president of the government will look at them and finally solve their accumulated problems. As far as these offices are concerned, professional and operational affairs in the negotiating process, they do not need money, and among other things, because of the scandalous behaviour of the head of the so-called ‘Such’. The negotiating team, Borislav Stefanovic. Yesterday, a session of the KIM Committee was held and after six hours of debate, MPs of the ruling coalition left the Committee's session to prevent the adoption of the conclusions proposed by the chairman of the KIM Committee, MP Ljubomir Kragovic, i.e. to specifically establish the policy of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM in the context of the so-called "KIM". dialogue with Pristina. So, the government obviously has no hearing for the MPs, no hearing from the KIM Committee, and then it's really unnecessary to give this kind of money. After all, Mr Cvetkovic is as clear to you as it is clear to all Serbian citizens that you kiM have sold for, as they would say, the old legal writers for the stain of lenses. So, for a mere promise that one day you will get EU candidate status. This will likely happen in the next 20 to 30 years when the EU no longer exists, but you have decided as the only government in the world to sell one part of state territory because of a mere promise that one day you will get EU candidate status for tiredness. Do not pay attention to what Mrs. Nada Kolundžija has shown you, she does not understand the process anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65343	I would ask you to focus on your exposure and allow each of you to do your job during the National Assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65344	Mrs. Komic, I'm very focused, but I'm afraid that Mrs. Kolundzhija could de-concentrate you to these conflicting actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65345	Don't worry about it. I'm asking you about the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65346	I'm afraid she might also be able to defocus Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65347	And about that, be completely carefree and continue with your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65348	So, Mr. Cvetkovic, when you already sold KIM, when you made it possible for the Shiptari to reach our home books, to the catastrian operatives, when you admitted the diplomas of that phantom and non-existent university in Pristina, when you confessed to the so-called so-called University of Pristina. Kosovo license plates, ID cards, when you negotiate with people who took out organs and sold to Serbs, it is really unnecessary to allocate this kind of money for that so-called. An office that basically doesn't exist. As for Borko Stefanovic himself, he does not need this money from the budget. He obviously receives money from another budget but outside the Republic of Serbia. You know what the budget is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65349	Two minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Bojan Đurić, then the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundži.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65350	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this amendment opens a very interesting and very important topic, and I think that the Prime Minister, while he is there, has an obligation to say something about it. Mrs. Kolundzhija did yesterday seem to me to have raised the question of how much it actually cost, let me put it this way, patriotism for Kosovo. I see you've already reported it, and I expect you to make some comments in that direction, but this is really the hardest connection. I think that Mr. Cvetkovic, these 11 million dinars who are just going to pay for it, Mr. Martinovic is right, a more or less fictitious body called the Office for Operational Affairs in the process negotiates with temporary institutions in Kosovo, is the price of your mistakes in Kosovo politics and the balance of patriotism. But not Mr. Stefanovic, but Mr. Vuk Jeremic. So you had to build a special office for Borko Stefanovic, the chief negotiator and the people he works with in the process to move him out of the premises, from the resources of the Foreign Ministry because Vuk Jeremic, your foreign minister, the DS does not allow him to work within the ministry. To implement any agreement Mr. Stefanovic reached in Brussels, you had to build an office like this. And when an office is made with several people, then very quickly it comes to a few tenths, or several hundred people, through budget items and budget divisions. You want to explain to us what this office is actually doing right now? Who's in it besides Mr. Stefanovic? How do the regulations that you've brought to government phone sessions be implemented? Maybe that cost shouldn't be $11 million, maybe it should be 110 million? If this helps solve problems in northern Kosovo, Serbia is making progress in European integration, it will start a normal life between Serbia's northern Kosovo and Kosovo. We're ready to make that amount a billion and a hundred million dinars, but tell us what it's about. You cannot finance the country's taxpayers' money to finance the haughtiness of Vuk Jeremic or your own unwillingness to change it. Fire either Mr. Jeremic or Mr. Stefanovic. Do not hold them in one, second or third chair to keep an illusion in front of the public as you conduct technical negotiations at the same time, as you are defined for the success of these negotiations and European integration. On the other hand, we kept this patriotic public opinion. Don't let Mrs. Kolundji do it for you. Don't be selective in that job. So, when you are not comfortable with the behaviour of opposition parties in northern Kosovo, when you feel that part of these institutions is parallel and is used for political or political purposes in Serbia, then you start that topic in parliament. Well, yesterday, you can't live in the media on that subject. When you have those hidden expenses again in your budget, re-financing, re-financing for salaries and bonuses in Kosovo, they pay again in one office like this, then shut up in front of this parliament, you have no special comment. I don't know how we're going to get an answer as to how much that patriotism costs or keeping false patriotism in Kosovo unless you give us those answers. You know, when something costs it's still some numbers after all. The budget is numbers. Answer that question for us today. You can agree with us, with Mr. Martinovic, you can bring out someone your third, as well as a simple middle solution but tell us how much it costs and how much it will cost. What's this office gonna do all year? Yesterday, your official Borko Stefanovic said there might be no further negotiations in January. That the continuation of the negotiations would be only if, according to your interpretation, Edith Tahiri, the Pristina side gave up the requirement for Serbia to give up Resolution 1244. What's your prognosis at this point? What are you gonna do by mid-January? Will those conversations be next year? If they're not there, then there's no need for us to have a budget item like this. Are these the cost of copying the parent books? Since you didn't have the courage to put in the regulation what the Brussels agreement is, then you invented that municipal administrations across Serbia who run the KiM parent books copy and perform and hand them over to Borko Stefanovic. So you're funding the whole process through some budget item. Do you have anywhere in the budget how many people do you work in that office? What exactly are they doing? Do they work somewhere else? Are those the people who came to that office or are they already working somewhere? Is Mr. Stefanovic the political director of the foreign ministry? Is the Chief of Staff of Foreign Affairs? The head of this negotiating team? What's he all about? But since you don't have the courage to take political responsibility, then you've invoiced everything on Borko Stefanovic, and then it looks like the man receives five salaries. I guess that's the reward for fear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65351	Four minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65352	Dear Chairman, of course I'll talk about this amendment. The fact is that this amendment has opened a much broader topic than what the item in the budget represents, but since it has already opened that topic, the first thing I want to ask you to do is not really let the abuse of a pay phone come out here with really monstrous accusations, like we've heard in the '90s, of the same ones we've listened to in the '90s. I can disagree with politics, I can see that this policy is not the policy they would lead, which would lead to war again, because their policy has led to war before. So they have the right to stand up for it. But I really don't think you should let these charges be made that actually constitute an invitation to the lynch. It is a very difficult and sensitive issue that Serbian citizens are very sensitive to. The drama that took place when they were in power of the bombing and death that followed was quite traumatized by the whole Serbian society. If someone speaks to the same dictionaries and the same qualifications today against those who are trying to solve the problem with a terribly difficult legacy, which among other things they have left us, therefore, peacefully through the protection of each individual life and protecting every, even economic interest of every citizen of this country, including the citizens of KIM. Unauthorized to address anyone in this House in this way, I really ask you not to allow it in the future. So the question is, of course, clear to me why someone who believes that dialogue and conversation should not seek solutions, that there is no need to allocate any funds for any minimum service that would support the negotiating team. So, it is quite clear when someone says – no need to talk and then follow all other qualifications, then it is quite clear that their amendment requires that there is no cost on the negotiating team's item. In that sense, I think that such a policy can be difficult for a man to reason and reason to face, because all that is presented here is, on the one hand, the politics that this country and these citizens have cost lives in tens of thousands, this country has cost tens of thousands of square miles of lost space, etc. When you face such a policy, then you can only insist that this call to the lynch and that call to evil must not be heard from the National Assembly. The policy they advocate will be won in the elections, as well as all policies. Therefore, I think that what citizens are already assessing today and that all public opinion research shows is that citizens have completely given up such policies because they consider it, of course, primarily harmful to their own lives. What I want to repeat again, therefore, is on one hand the obligation of the Serbian state to take care of citizens of the Serbian nationality at KIM and to help them survive there. I don't think anyone should question the state's obligation to allocate funds to help these people survive there, because all the talk of all Serbia's interests ends that moment if the Serbs are not there, or it gets a completely different dimension. What is important is to identify are abuses and determine whether or not the abuse of the Kosovo problem has benefited personally. So, from some of the allegations that we can see these days, among these allegations there is some evidence, it is obvious that for some Kosovo policy and Kosovo's problem was a very lucrative business. I think that question should be answered. I must admit that it is quite a creative interpretation that the need to provide funding for professional support to the negotiating team is related to some conflict in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the inability to make the negotiating team a foreign ministry. So the negotiating team has formed the government as a special body and it is understood that this particular body has some kind of service that will help this negotiation process take place. With all due respect to the need to show that there are some deep divisions within the policies being conducted, I think these arguments are still too much. It is, however, that if the negotiation process is estimated to continue next year, and certainly not all the problems that need to be solved through dialogue are possible in a short period of time. I think it's an illusion. We can evaluate efficiency after a while and see if this negotiating process and the negotiating team had any effect in its work, but that the need for existence will be and in the next period it is not disputed for anyone. Of course, those who think also share with us the belief that only by dialogue and peaceful means can we come to a solution and that this solution should be sought and not put off the problem. I believe they agree that there is a need for a team to do it. I believe they have no problem with the fact that there's some kind of small, professional support for the team's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65353	Six minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply, so MP Bojan Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first and foremost, the question of how until now, in 2011, a negotiating process has been under way when no single dinar for the so-called so-called “Government” is foreseen in the 2011 budget. Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiation Process. In 2011, Mrs Kolundzija, Borko Stefanovic admitted diplomas, ID cards, registration plates, gave birth books, gave cadastrian operatives, and no single dinar was allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget for this current year. So Borko Stefanovic can do this job without these funds. You don't need a big head in there. Simply, Americans tell you what the conditions you need to meet and Borko Stefanovic accepts it. After all, Mrs Kolundzija, you were at the meeting of the KiM Committee yesterday, as I was, did you hear what DS MP Dragisa Djokovic said that Serbs in northern KiM do not accept the agreements reached by Borko Stefanovic, that Borko Stefanovic's policy is directly contrary to the interests of the Serb people at KIM. That's not my words, that's your MP's words. I will ask these girls who are working at the SRS Parliament Club to provide me with a stenogram from yesterday's session of the KIM Committee and the first next time I will quote the words of DS MPs about Borko Stefanovic and what he is doing in Brussels behind closed doors. So, you have a problem, Mrs. Kolundjia, as was the problem with medieval metaphysics that Francis Bacon said was a great system of ideas just doesn't give practical results. And Borko Stefanovic's policy is great, only Serbs with KIM don't accept it. That's your problem. And not only Serbs from the north of KIM, but also DS MPs living on KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65355	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65356	Your Honor, Madam President, of course I never... I'm sorry, Bojan Djuric had a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65357	Mr. Djuric is a gentleman, but go ahead, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65358	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundjia, I agree with you that many have profited financially through the abuse of the Kosovo problem. It's just more disgusting than that, even if it's me, when someone's profiting politically on this subject with her abuse, and she's been doing it for over 10 years or so. Not you, not you personally, but the DS and this ruling coalition, at the top of that list, but you're on that list. You're saying it's not disputed and no one should be disputed that there's a small office to help negotiate. I agree with you. I'd go one step further. That's what I said before. I don't think there should be a small and professional office, but it should be big and well equipped and that it should be the essence of all the resources and potentials to conduct these negotiations. I asked you, actually prime minister, but he's obviously not interested in this topic. Then what are the other state authorities doing? Which is why at the same time we have such a massive KIM ministry, so the KIM budget fund, so dozens of public enterprises that are really working or spending money on KIM. When you ask the question – how funds are being misused, it is for me to abuse funds when public enterprises from Serbia, or branches, are building alternative routes on KiM. I think it's also an abuse for you now because you've brought in a regulation that says that a high fine is being charged for when a person tries to cross an administrative line or a border line, however you want, is out of those places that are set by the agreement. So is abuse if Serbian public enterprises, that means they spent taxpayers' money, because you don't think they make money on the market, so they spent their profits on building alternative travel routes for these machines and these resources? Since you've changed politics in the meantime, now everything that's happened in the previous period of abuse. (President: Time) The other thing is, Mr. Martinovic is absolutely right. How have negotiations been conducted so far without these funds? (President: Time) You made the office when it became unsustainable for Mr. Stefanovic to work with Mr. Jeremic and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65359	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65360	Dear Presidents, we fully understand the trauma that people in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have survived and have survived in the last decades, can be said freely, but unlike those who remind us of this trauma now, we do not abuse this trauma to get any votes. So we are dealing with this trauma by trying to find the best solution, which is in the best interest of those who have suffered hard in Kosovo and Metohija in recent decades. They say our policy may be a great policy, but it doesn't produce results. I can only say that the policy that the party, which accuses us of, led us, has produced excellent results, has given war, has given the Kapitulan Kumanski Agreement and has given the situation in which Kosovo and Metohija are under international rule. The policy you led back then is hard to understand. How can you not understand that this policy has already been defeated many times? Is it possible that you are not giving up on a policy that has suffered such terrible defeats with such terrible consequences and that you insist on it? Of course, I don't want to participate at all in this sick game of proving patriotism, proving your credibility, proving who has more compassion with the people who live downstairs. I think the citizens will evaluate all those who use it and try to score a few points at other people's torture. (Bojan Djuric, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65361	No more ground for replication, no more circle of replicas. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: I did not answer for the replica, I answered as an authorised representative. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the harsh dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are tired of this rhetoric of DS about these famous 1990s where the DS has just played a significant role through its tycoons, ministers, officials, etc., who have changed who knows how many parties in the past 20 years, and have been in the SPS a little bit, so on Nebojja Covica, so on into DS etc. What the SRS insists on is a very clear policy defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and it is unacceptable to sign any agreement with anyone, especially Hashim Thaci, which implies stepping on Serbia's Constitution and treading Resolution 1244. All that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija is the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling coalition in the Serbian Parliament, does not have a clear and uniform policy when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. One hit a wedge, the other hit a board. Politics by Boris Tadic and Borko Stefanovic do not enjoy the support of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, a complete Serb people, regardless of which political party they belong. Ask Dragisa Djokovic, ask this lady also from the DS, ask this lady from G17 plus, at every session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, the most difficult words, much sharper than the SRS MPs, to attack and accuse Borko Stefanovic of betraying Serbian, national and state interests, but not a problem of Serbia, it is not a problem of the SRS, it is a problem for you from the government, whose policy suffered defeat on December 9th, when the EU made it clear that there is no entry into the EU until you recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65363	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Kolundji was responding to her arguments about what you're experiencing as an argument, and there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was not disrupted by her participation in the debate of the Parliament’s dignity. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I ask the Assembly to declare itself. In the day of the vote, that will happen. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65364	You see how important this amendment is, behind these millions of dinars, is actually through this issue the very essence of this country's policy. That is why the LDP is so interested in this, that we get the answer, among other things, and what that money will be spent on, and on what basis negotiations will be held. It is very important for us to be able to form an attitude whether we want to support such spending of money or not. Mrs Kolundzhija, you said one very important thing, that, among other things, because of the policy of the SRS, of course, not only because of their policy, Serbia capitulated in Kumanov in June 1999, I agree with you, but that is why we do not understand why we are giving money to the Office for Negotiations which will lead the negotiations as a red line of protection for Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 is an integral part of the act of Serbia's capitulation in 1999, just like the Kumanski Agreement. If you want politics, including negotiations in Brussels with Pristina, to lead on the basis of this resolution alone and to prevent any change, any reform, to completely stop European integration, the LDP will not vote in favour of a budget item that will make it possible. At the same time, you cannot attack a policy that ended with a capitulation in Kumanovo and build your policy towards the EU and Kosovo on Resolution 1244, which is the legal expression of that capitulation before the UN. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65365	According to the amendment, she wants Mrs. Hope Kolundji's word. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Replica, the party is mentioned in a negative context. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65366	When we talk about Resolution 1244 and the need to insist on respecting Resolution 1244, then I certainly believe that we all share the same attitude, we have to start with a few basic facts. First, it is the only international legal act on which the international legal status of Kosovo and Metohija can be established, and in this sense it is of paramount importance for Serbia. So Serbia alone in Resolution 1244 can draw the opportunity and the right to advocate its interests in KIM because it is the only international legal act adopted by the UN Security Council. Only some new Security Council act can change that fact. That's why this resolution is important. I don't think the resolution is an obstacle to solving problems in line with the interests of citizens living there. On the contrary, I think Resolution 1244 is the basis for Serbia, the only basis. When I say that the resolution was the result of a war that Serbia lost, then I think first of all that this resolution of Kosovo and Metohija was an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that Serbia had sovereignty and territorial integrity over that territory in Kosovo and Metohija. Resolution 1244 made it a territory under international administration. Thus, Serbia does not exercise sovereignty in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and in this sense the position of Serbia has been much worse since Resolution 1244 was adopted than before the bombing and before the Resolution. Are negotiations still needed? I really think they are, because there is no other way but in direct dialogue, with the agreement of both sides, to come up with solutions that will primarily be a sustainable solution, because it will be acceptable for both sides and thus guarantee the longevity of these solutions. In that sense, I think, if it is necessary, to negotiate longer, and to avoid all conflicts and to avoid any possible crisis that threatens the safety and lives of people on KIM, then I think we should unequivocally support this process. Do the process or resolution endanger our European integration? I'm deeply convinced you don't. So there is not a single point in which insistence on respecting the resolution and insisting on dialogue and a peaceful solution to all disputes can endanger our European integration. If they were to threaten, I think Europe would send a clear message that it itself does not respect the basic principles it calls upon us to respect them to become a full member.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65367	The amendment has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm asking you to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65368	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, I really have an understanding for Mrs. Hope Kolundji because it's not easy for her at all. Instead of defending the Serbian government's policy, it must be defended by Mrs. Nada Kolundzija because Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic obviously has some major concerns, rather than sitting in the National Assembly. As for what Mr. Bojan Djuric said, which is actually the same thing the DS just can't say publicly, that we allegedly had a capitulation in Kumanov in June 1999, it's just not true. It is enough to read Resolution 1244 and everyone, it does not have to be a lawyer, it will be clear that the resolution guarantees the sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in KIM. A broad autonomy is foreseen for KIM. A similar formulation exists in the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006. What is very important, Annex 2 of Resolution 1244 provides that KIM will return to Serbia's army and police to protect Serbia's state border, the real state border of Serbia, not the one recognised by Borko Stefanovic, so the real border of Serbia with Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia, and Serbia's spiritual and cultural heritage on KIM. Our capitulation, gentlemen of LDP and DS, is ready in Rambuje, when the NATO pact pressured the Republic of Serbia to accept the so-called. An agreement from Rambuje, under which the entire Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was to be occupied by the NATO Pact, NATO's pact to give a supreme right to govern the Republic of Serbia and to free NATO pact convoys from Serbia-Montenegro. The Serbian negotiating team then refused to accept it, but was later accepted by Vuk Draskovic. (President: I will really not allow you to speak any further in a way that has nothing to do with the amendment and the topic on the agenda. This applies to everything. ) Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I think this topic is too important, and at the same time too complex, both with legal and... (President: You cannot violate the Rules of Procedure because the topic is important. Please don't put me in an awkward situation. I really don't want to put you in an awkward situation. I have a desire to talk about an amendment that applies to that so-called. Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiation Process. It all has to do with this office. After all, you're a very educated lady, you try to give me a rational explanation. If Borko Stefanovic signed all these agreements in 2011 without one single dollar in the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year being scheduled for the office, why give him nearly 12 million for 2012? Is it not better to give it to military pensioners to resolve their difficult position in this society than to give it to a fictitious office? That office, Madam President, only exists on paper. Here, I also asked Mr. Cvetkovic and Mrs. Kolundji, now I ask you – can you name me Borko Stefanovic, another name of that so-called. An expert who is employed in this office who participates in negotiations with the Shiptars? Does he have one, two names? How many people work here? What are they doing, what are they doing? What is their educational profile, what are their jobs, their debt? In what way have they participated in previous negotiations with the Shiptars? How do they help Borko Stefanovic? These are all unknowns for Serbian citizens. It is not small money from 12 million dinars at a time when most Serbian citizens barely make ends meet. So, one very important question. Of course, everything that applies to the office has its own prehistory, has its own historical context, since 1999. Here, we are trying, trying also to make sure that Mrs. Nada Kolundžija and Mr. Đurić and I, from our political point of view, shed light on this historical context and that we explain how we came so far in 2011 without a sudden budget dinar, accept everything that suits the Shiptars. Edita Tahiri herself, Hashim Thaci, said, was published by all the media, when Borko Stefanovic accepted the IBM concept, i.e. integrated management of the administrative border line, that the Republic of Serbia and formally recognised "de jure" so-called "de jure". the Republic of Kosovo. That's not what I said. That's what Hashim Thaci said, Edith Tahiri. That's what the MPs of DS and G 17 plus are saying coming from KIM territory. Those who talk about reality run an unreal policy. This policy of Boris Tadic, Mrs Kolundzija, Borko Stefanovic, etc. ends up here in Pioneer Park. In the north of KIM, the policy absolutely cannot pass, and the Serb people in KIM see it as a pest, as an anti-constitutional, as one policy that is contrary to Serbian national and state interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65369	The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65370	Dear Members of the People, I would like very briefly to refer to this very lively discussion of this amendment. I think it's completely unreasonable to conduct a complex and long negotiation and not have technical support, so this office is necessary. Of course, it is not necessary for those who feel that negotiations should not be conducted. Insinuations that she was made for Borka Stefanovic have nothing to do with it. He's not even employed in that office at all, so she's really made in terms of how she says her name - for technical support with negotiations. It's a regulation in that context, and anyone who wants to know what its tasks are can look at the regulation. However, it is also briefly stated in the budget what it is dealing with. It's on page 439. There you can see the basics of her tasks, and in the regulation you can see details and she absolutely has nothing to do with personal matters, but simply if you are doing a very important job, you must also have technical support. It's pretty clear to me, and I don't see why we should waste so much time about it. Of course, everyone has the right to say – this office should exist or not, but it should exist from our point of view, it is necessary and will significantly help in the ongoing negotiations that will continue who knows how much time in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65371	MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65372	I called after Mr. Martinovic, meanwhile the prime minister also spoke. Well, you see, we don't really understand each other, Mr. Cvetkovic. You've brought everything back down to technical assistance. I wonder if we're paying for something and maybe we should pay for something more that had a much more political significance? What political content fills the work of this negotiating team? Who's Mr. Borko Stefanovic's real boss? Unlike the Democratic Party, I have no ambition to point out my pro-European commitment to the case of the Serbian Radical Party, by proving that I am for Europe and they are against it. That's understood. I respect that political attitude. I'm bothered by this middle policy of yours. I didn't interpret whether it was a capitulation in 1999. Serbian radicals then expressed their political stance by leaving the government. Each of us, meanwhile, gave some attitude. By the way, you've just mentioned another very important question. You say Borko Stefanovic works, in fact, is in charge of negotiations. That's what he does all day and night, and he gets paid elsewhere. I don't think that's a good system. That's how you create the basis for these abuses. So in Kosovo, some do some work only on paper and receive wages, and then it will turn out that someone is a false porter, or is a false patriot, or is a false publisher in the lease of ancient pillars, etc. But it's all such a political estrada. Answer me, Mr. Cvetkovic, who politically makes this negotiating team? Do you really think you're going to solve fate, I don't know, 140,000 -- 150,000 people in Kosovo, by having tenants in that office? It's just not serious. I ask you no longer to humiliate this House, to tell us every little bit that we should dig through archives and your regulations. You know, this is still the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You bring your regulations to phone sessions. When you do something, then bring it to this Parliament and talk about it. We're not junior officials of your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65373	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65374	Also, very short. This is a budget debate, and I will limit myself to answering budget questions. As far as the other questions are concerned, we have Thursday, i.e. Tomorrow you can ask political questions. I'm sorry that you didn't take advantage of yesterday's opportunity, but now it was the KIM Committee, because the questions you're starting now, a couple of excellencies questions for that committee. As far as the budget is concerned, I've already given my answer. We believe that the office needs, that support is needed, that this support is technical, that the support is defined in that regulation, which was published in the Official Messenger. I believe that the MPs, not only have the opportunity to read it, but that is their obligation, if they are already Members of the people. I do not believe that the government is now expected to come to the Assembly and to present the various regulations it makes, which are operational.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65375	National MP Ivan Andric. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65376	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, member of the 107th Infringement of the National Assembly of Serbia. You know what, in our deep opinion, it's not just enough to be polite and not use ugly words and that actually means someone's right. This is a very large violation of the Parliament's dignity, when you say – it was not good for the Government to bring various regulations of technical character. I'm going to quote you a regulation yesterday on the KIM Committee, where we've been, we've been asking these same questions, and we've also not received an answer, because the government whose prime minister you are is, in fact, running from those answers and sending us from one place to another. The regulation says this -- from today on, who crosses the alternative border crossing, will pay a fine of up to 150,000 dinars. These alternative border crossings, among other things, were building, according to the government report that you sent, public utility companies from Serbia. A very simple question – why did you build these crossings and today you want to charge people a penalty if they go through these crossings? This is all, in fact, rooting and because you are afraid to take responsibility and therefore avoid a session of the Assembly. The regulations are not a normal solution to this situation. This assembly has brought resolution, you've been in, we've been against. That resolution says the barricades are justified. If they're not today, go ahead and tell me why they're not. If they are, go ahead and tell me why they are. No secret regulations, half the cabinet votes for, and half think they're anti-constitutional. Then you come to us and tell us that we're digging through archives as government officials, because it's our duty and our duty. No, it's not our duty and duty. What we're doing here today, and now it's our duty and duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65377	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65378	Very short. I don't think you've studied the budget well. The barricades aren't even covered by that budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65379	We'll keep working. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) First Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mirko Cvetkovic is a injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, as Mr Mirko Cvetkovic has spoken an incredible lie, that we allegedly could have asked questions at the meeting of the KIM Committee yesterday, and we did not take advantage of that possibility. Mr Cvetkovic, the MPs of the SRS used that possibility all the time while there was a quorum. The session was suspended because the ruling coalition MPs left the meeting of the KiM Committee, there was no quorum and no proposed conclusions could be drawn by the Committee president, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic. So much for that session. I don't know if you signed up for a round of uninformed -- if so, please let your party colleagues know a little bit about yesterday's session of the KIM Committee. Second, you didn't give us any. Who else but Borko Stefanovic, on behalf of Serbia, is negotiating with the Shiptars, who is employed in the fictitious office? You did not answer the third question – how Borko Stefanovic led the so-called so-called "Borko Stefanovic" in 2011. A negotiation process without a single dinar? Now you say – there must be some budget money, that man has professional help, some government service, etc. How did he do all this in 2011? So Borko Stefanovic can do this job without this office of yours. What's the point of this office, then, if in 2012, it's supposed to exist, and in 2011, it didn't have to exist? What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65381	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The prime minister is responding to very specific issues related to the budget, and you are politicising the subject of the budget. If you're not satisfied with this answer, and of course the Prime Minister can't hurt the Rules of Procedure, I can. Yeah, that's how it works in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you are wrong, but the Assembly will plead in the voting day. National MP Ivan Andric advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65382	You hurt by not warning the prime minister that I wasn't talking about whether or not the barricades were in the budget, but that alternative border crossings were built out of budget money. It's a question very much from the budget. Then the government introduced a regulation, passed a regulation that punishes one who crosses those crossing points. To be clear, the report on Kosovo, sent by the government, says public utility companies from Serbia participated in the construction of alternative border routes. Then the government passed a regulation that, if I want to cross that crossing today, which the government has made, I'm paying a fine of 150,000 dinars. That's a little bit worse than crossing the crossing where the government has allowed me, since I'm going to pay only 100 euros here, I'm going to pay 1,500 euros here. You know, dignity has been violated and it's hard not to react emotionally, but we've been here for a long time, to know that this amount of pride and arrogance, with this shakedown of hands and such tone, that we don't know that it leads to destruction, but in personal ruin. We don't care about that. What's the problem here is that this kind of policymaking leads to a double collapse. It is a failure of European integration that we saw on December 9th, but at the same time, it prevents us from agreeing on normal grounds with the Albanian population at KIM, because you can't do everything under the grain. A thousand and first time, if you have something to do about Kosovo, come to the Assembly and, either you have support for it or you don't. If you don't, you can't do that. It's anti-democratic, anti-European, anti-civilization. In case you don't have, you call the election, you run it as a program, so the citizens come forward. There are no secret regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65383	Now you're really exaggerating. I'll give you my word, but I'll apply sanctions in case you abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65384	At the risk of being sanctioned, and, thank God, it won't be the first time, I think he's a injured member of 27. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, adopted one wrong interpretation by Mrs. Gordana Comic, that only the National Assembly president allegedly could harm the Rules of Procedure. If so, if only the President of the Assembly can harm the Rules of Procedure, how is it possible that at yesterday's session of the Administrative Board, fines were imposed on Mr Momcil Duvnjak and Mrs Verice Radeti, on which basis, if only you could harm the Rules of Procedure, and the Administrative Board at the session imposes fines on SRS MPs for the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. Come on, gentlemen, line up, you who are chairing, with the Administrative Committee, who can actually hurt the Rules of Procedure. If only you can harm the Rules of Procedure, I, on behalf of the SRS, ask you to return money to the MPs of the SRS who are obviously taken away from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and we will use that money for some humanitarian and general-use purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65385	When you advertise the Rules of Procedure, you point to an injury that actually makes the chairman because he doesn't react. As far as the plenary session is concerned, it is the president or vice president who is changing the chairman. When it comes to the board's session, of course it's about the chairman board. Please, Mr. Martinovic knows that well. Thank you. On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Excuse me, do you want to go to Voting Day to plead? And on this alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will declare itself on Voting Day. Mr. Ivan Andric wants more after the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65386	I didn't mean to interrupt the debate. It's very simple. What is to be said today when it comes to detachment of money for the Office for Negotiations, it is not disputed that if negotiations continue, there should be some kind of support for that office, there should be support for this negotiating process and there must be some office that performs all logistics procedures to support the whole process. What is controversial is whether this office actually justified the need for its existence, or whether this negotiation process should exist and whether tax payers' money should be taken for the office, in order to be supported. I'll be very simple. In normal conditions and circumstances, in order to give money in advance for something, you have to do an analysis of how it's worked so far. These questions are very simple. This process, in our opinion, has been conducted politically and not in the light of the well-being of those in whose name the process is allegedly being conducted and therefore we are looking for an answer to this – whether this process will continue to be conducted or will be guided in a way that allows citizens whose lives depend on it. Is life going to be easier for them after that or not? I'll be very specific. The government avoided making an agreement and the whole negotiation process until the last week before any possible EU membership bid. This process and those people who will be sitting in that office tomorrow until then refused to make an agreement, and after that, when it was seen that the candidacy was, in a way, conditioned by that, the government accepted everything that was required and was not sought, through various regulations, avoiding the public, avoiding the Assembly, declaring the official secret who voted in government meetings, in one way that raises huge doubts about what was actually going on there. We are opposed to giving money, if that money is going to be spent, because that negotiation process is doing enough damage anyway, so we can now go from the budget and finance it. These agreements, that they were guided in time and time, could have been made in peace so as not to endanger Serbia's European future, but not the lives of people in Kosovo. Today, the consequences of these agreements, which were made so that they knew in advance that they would not be respected, means you are agreements, and that future office, but then as part of the team, made agreements that she knew would not respect, just to pass the date for the candidacy. That's why you cheated on the citizens of Kosovo, you cheated on the EU, and that's why you didn't get the candidacy. There was nothing else there. You waited for the last moment you said then – we accept everything, just say what and leave one small point that says what will be written on some paper in front of an indisputable Albanian delegation, in the indisputable place where you are, so that you can accuse Europe and have just done so. We refuse that this country is devoting money, that every citizen of this country singles out money in something that is against the interests of these citizens, which we see every day. When they come from Kosovo to Serbia, they pay 60 euros, and when they go from Serbia to Kosovo, they pay 100 euros. The government's explanation of this is – insurance companies will agree. Why haven't they agreed so far? What does someone have to pay for it today? So you are building financial barriers to transition from central Serbia to Kosovo and from Kosovo to Serbia. It's a direct consequence of these conversations. Then you come to the Assembly and ask 11 million dinars for us to finance it, so that it can be a fee of maybe 200 euros, until insurance companies agree. Your chief negotiator, the head of that office, comes and tells us yesterday on that board that you called for damage, but insurance companies in Serbia are private, so the government can't influence. Here's a proposal. Nationalize insurance companies. State everything and then control everything. You raise your thumbs as much as you want, that arrogance is invertedly proportional to how right you are and we tell you that a hundred times. You can avoid answering these questions and it is not disputed, but you must be aware of the responsibility for the political damage you are doing. She surpasses even your government. You must not question the survival of European integration in order to fool around for another three months. Either you have the support for what you do or you don't have, but don't avoid this House of Representatives, you have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65387	On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65388	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Article 7 of Section 3 of Chapter 3 of point 16) of the National Security and Security Council Office, function 110, economic classification 411 – salaries, allowances and benefits of employees, in columns nine and 11 the amount of 12,777,000 dinars is replaced by 777,000 dinars. So this is where we propose to save 12 million dinars. The Serbian Radical Party believes the work of the National Security and Security Council Office is unnecessary because there is a BIA that has the same part-time work. It's enough for the BIA to report to the highest state authorities. There is no need to create additional institutions and filters of information through the work of the office. In this context, this amendment leads to a savings of 12 million dinars. The funds focus on strengthening citizens' public security, as well as on reducing crime and corruption in Serbia's MUP area. The state in which the MUP is located must be repaired, as the state has been saving on expenditures for years for the MUP, especially for those officers most at risk at their jobs. The reputation of the MUP must be restored to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65389	On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 17, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65390	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak has actually submitted three amendments concerning the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas, raising funds for the National Minority Budget Fund and increasing funds for the regular work of national major minority nations in the Republic of Serbia. Since my colleague Omeragic spoke yesterday or yesterday in a principle debate on the purpose of increasing the amount for the work of the Office for Sustainable Development of Not Developed Areas, I will remain, of course, on the budget fund for national minorities and the funds for the regular work of national larger minorities. I would say one sentence, that the actual refusal of this amendment, and as regards this first position, the office, represents one political and state philosophy, that outside of Belgrade and south of Vojvodina, there is actually one completely different relationship than that of this part of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we come to another position, that actually this relationship on an even more sensitive ground, the field of enjoying minority rights refers to the same extent. In fact, the amount of two million dinars, as foreseen in the budget fund for national minorities, which, to remind you, is provided for in the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, is, in fact, an even stronger reflection of this political philosophy, that what was the purpose of the budget fund and the idea of the legislator for the National Minorities Budget Fund is to finance so-called "national Minorities". capital projects in the implementation of rights in the field of official use of language and letter, the right to education in minority languages, the right to inform in minority languages and to protect and improve the cultural heritage of minorities. Then, of course, we come to the next point, and that's the completely unequal relationship of this country to minorities living in Vojvodina and minorities living in so-called ". Central Serbia. I would say with a special emphasis on problems in achieving the rights of the Sanjay Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, since they are in one process of transformation by so-called. the declareative status of the constituent people in the former Yugoslavia, until the attempt by the state institutions and resolution ministries to consume their rights in accordance with the Constitution and the law and guaranteed by international documents, which are part of our legal system of ratification, primarily the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. Now we come, of course, to the point of this problem itself, and that is that, above all, the members of the Bosniak national community are in one part of their capacity to enjoy their rights guaranteed by the Constitution and by law and so on. the political will of the government and the resolution ministries to help them consume these rights as well. Of course, we are coming back to a two million figure, which is actually a reflection, which is 20,000 euros, so that members of the Bosniak national community can exercise their rights with the help of this fund in the area of use of their native language, in implementing the model for the Sandzak Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, in protecting and improving the Bosniak cultural heritage and in forming, i.e. in co-financing of editorials, printed media and the like, in the field of information rights. With these amendments, I predicted that the two million figure, which is actually funny, would increase to, again symbolically, but would be worth at least this year, 50 million and in a position that finances the regular work of a national greater than 230 million to increase to 300 million. Unfortunately, the government has rejected both the second and third amendments. Of course, I'm sorry about that. We announced in the principle debate that the Bosniak List will support this 2012 budget. We stand, of course, in this position, but with this I only wanted to draw attention to the still functioning and effectiveness of this political state philosophy, that there are no citizens south of Belgrade, that for minorities there is still not enough sensitivity, unfortunately in this country, to help raise their capacity, to use their rights in accordance with the Constitution, laws and standards of the EU. Of course, I am also in the capacity of a national MP and a man who has been leading a minority self-government body for years, and as regards these very rights that should have been supported by these financial positions, I have brought simply two lawsuits with the Citizens' Protectors and the Trustees for the Protection of Equality, in order to simply in this assessment two independent state bodies would actually help members of the Bosniak national community in the Republic of Serbia, to come, or to force the Government to unblock the process of exercise of rights, which is guaranteed by the Constitution and by law by all other minorities. I say once again in the end, I am sorry that the government did not have the courage and sensitivity to help the Bosniaks in this country enjoy their constitutional and legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65391	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Before we continue our work, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87 of Section 5, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, and until the completion of the search in particular of the last of the draft laws, which are united by the Assembly's decision in a joint principle and uniform search. Since all the laws that have been filed in this principle search have been subject to 237 amendments and are expected to work at least 20.00 hours, the usual one-hour break will be set at 15.00 hours and will last until 1600 hours. Does anyone else want a word in the debate after the search in detail of the amendments by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic? Yeah. ) National MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65392	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and the current debate on amendments to the 2012 draft budget shows that we were right when we criticised you in principle, Mr. Prime Minister, why you did not explain the political ideas and directions in which Serbia will go in 2012. We as a state and as a society in 2012, as many say, in the fateful year, because the effect of the second wave of economic crisis is expected, and then the process of obtaining candidate status, we enter as a state that has no finance minister, as a state that does not have a vice-president of the Government in charge of European integration, or a political personality that will deal with this process, we enter as a state that has a minister of religion and a diaspora who has no majority support here in the Serbian Parliament, because for how many days now there has been no vote on its interpretation. We are also entering as a state that has in fact no foreign minister, who has lost political support for his party. So we think it was necessary to hear in this opening part these political directions of government action in the coming period. I think it's very important because of the very days that await us, as many say extremely difficult. We expected Mr Cvetkovic to at least hear some reasons why Mr Djelic resigned and so on. If we talk about this amendment that colleagues Omeragic and Esad Djudjevic have submitted. I was distracted by the explanation you gave. I will quote - a reduction in reserve funds, the current budget reserve would endanger the implementation of Article 69. The law on the budgetary system, according to which the funds of the current budget reserves are used for unplanned purposes for which no appropriations have been established or for purposes which have been shown to be insufficient in the course of the year. In particular, given the need, it removes the consequences of possible unforeseen situations faced by budgetary users in the exercise of their responsibilities. I want to ask you, is it possible to use funds from this budget reserve, for example? The city of Jagodina in 2011 until September, it seems to me that the media said, had received more funds than the city of Kraljevo, which hit an earthquake, the city of Novi Pazar that had floods. Is that why this budget reserve serves you, so that you can buy coalition peace in the ruling coalition, so that they can make extraordinary mayors, who, behold, can do what other mayors or presidents of municipalities in Serbia cannot do? Is it normal for some of the municipalities led by party presidents or members of the ruling coalition not to pay electricity to distribute public lighting, not to pay contributions? In this way you show that there are citizens of the first and second order, i.e. you show that there are municipalities of the first and second order. I think it's funny this way, not to use any other word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65393	Three minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? On Article 7, Section 3, 17, 20, 24, 53 and 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65394	This budget is due to the party's division, according to Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, in one of his interviews and I can agree with that finding. That's why on behalf of the LDP, I've submitted an amendment that literally consists of three parts, and I'm going to try to make this finding and what I was talking about earlier to prove through this amendment. The direct occasion, otherwise this amendment, of the first part of this amendment concerning the withdrawal of funds from the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas and the allocation of 40 million young talent funds, is the direct cause of this amendment, which appeared in the media in early December. That information says – that the Office for Sustainable Development underdeveloped areas granted more than 97 million dinars for 432 applicants in early October, among them the most members and supporters of the Party of Democratic Action. But what concerns more than this information is the explanation of the people working in that office, who say it's probably because the proximity of our offices is located near the office of the Party of Democratic Action, so it affected most of the people who are strangers to us. I think this is one rude explanation and this shows that our departments, our agencies, are being created on a party basis. I can freely ask a question here to each of you, can anyone tell me the difference between the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas, what it also deals with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, in the scope and scope of regional development? Where does the fact of the work of this office end, and where does the fact of the ministry or the Agency for Regional Development begin? The second reason for the submission of this amendment is in the light of the draft budget. Since we, Mr. Prime Minister, are reading from the LDP quite carefully, read what you wrote, as you say, on page 434. The maximum amount of funds is defined under economic classification 463 – transfers to other levels of government etc. If you take the table, you will see that economic classification is 92 million while the economic classification of 511 is 150 million dinars. Well, how is 92 million the biggest item? Secondly, what will the Offices for Sustainable Development do for underdeveloped areas of funds under economic classification – buildings and construction facilities? If, in the explanation that you sent us, it clearly states what this office of sustainable development is dealing with, and what does economic classification 511 mean? The tubs cross that data, there's absolutely nothing in common. That's why we asked that one part of these funds be transferred to the Youth Fund. Why the Youth Fund? Because in the previous three years, we have repeatedly insisted on the need to increase budgets for education, for scholarships and young talent, for students and students. Because it's just impossible for us to live in a country where 90 percent of the education budget goes to employees' salaries. I think that as a society, we need to do much more to level the level of issuing funds from the education budget with the level of issuing funds in European countries. Speaking of European countries, it is strange enough that the Serbian government, which has, among other things, a desire to bring Serbia closer to European integration, is seeking loans, precisely from these European banks or from countries that make up the EU, on the one hand. On the other hand, some of these countries accuse them of being the main brakesters of Serbia's EU accession. You know what, the EU cannot be introduced to citizens as an ATM. So when we need the money, we'll come, push the card, get the money. But we will continue to live by the rules that we have lived by. I don't think they're European values. The second part of the amendment, which I am under, refers to the increase in the means of subsidising the sales of products produced in the SRB. There's too much to think about tractors, trucks and buses. Because, according to your knowledge, what you told us and what we have in the professional public in 2012 is a difficult economic situation and difficult business. I think it is necessary for us to increase this part of the funds to be used to help restructure companies survive that year 2012. Why is it important that these companies that are in restructuring survive? Because they liked this state, not because they didn't know they were working, but because the 90-year policy that dominated Serbia destroyed their development. I will only remind you that in the 1980s, these enterprises, such as "Fap" Priboj, were required by 10,000 euros per newly opened job to come to a foreign partner. At the time, a foreign partner came to Serbia, Yugoslavia and invested in the companies. It is necessary that we help these companies to start the same start-up base as other companies. Also when we talk about helping companies in the restructuring process and there is a double archin. According to our knowledge, the flags of trucks from Kragujevaca get twice as many subsidies on the monthly level as "Fap" from Priboj, although the number of employees in the flag trucks is double the number of employees in Fapo in Priboj. And that's one double arsenic. What's the reason for that? Is it only because the flag trucks are located in Kragujevac and the Fap is located in Priboj? Or maybe some other reason is hidden. I think we have to do it so that any connotation in the wrong sense can be given to some who want to do it. The third part of the amendment also refers to an increase in funding for the work of national councils of national minorities. I think it is necessary to do so, but I will agree somewhat with Mr. Djudjevic's discussion that national councils have a good purpose of existence, but this Serbian government is directly guilty of not functioning the Bosniak National Council. This is where I directly accuse the Ministry of State Administration of both human and minority rights. They have two options, one is to recognise the results of elections for the Bosniak National Council held in June 2010, regardless of whether you like the results of these elections or not, or to re-examine the elections. This cannot be a vacuum situation by them, because this leads to Bosniaks in Serbia not enjoying the rights that the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia have given them, and this depends obviously on the political will of a democratic party, or the political will of a minister. All you have to do is go out and say, "We're admitting the results." Nothing more. And all problems related to the functioning of the Bosniak National Council would be solved. Also, how your government works shows an example of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, which was formed by a special Gutavica reserve in the municipality of Sjenica, and as the manager of that special reservation set up the so-called Islamic community of Serbia, and here you swear to live in a secular state. Well, if we live in a secular state, is it normal for the manager of one special nature reserve to be another para-creation, the Islamic community of Serbia? You can't keep using those double arches, leading to discrimination, and all of us who pointed to this management over the past few years, but you can't solve one problem by burying you by creating new problems. (President: National MP, the time available has been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65395	Thank you. MP Bojan Djuric has his word. The time at the disposal of the authorised representative is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65396	Thank you. This amendment is quite extensive and simply touches some of the budgetary issues that are very important. You simply, our need to react, are challenging the content of the arguments you gave by rejecting Mr. Hajdarevic's amendment. I'm going to ask you a few questions, budget questions so we don't get into a situation anymore if you tell me as Prime Minister that you won't answer any other political questions, etc. When you refuse one part of the amendment, Mr. Hajdarevic, you say they do not accept it because it is proposed to cut funds under Section 17, Ministry of Finance, etc., and in fact fulfil the obligations set out in Article 173. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which stipulates that the Republic is a guarantee for the PIO Fund's liabilities and that a balance of the fund's financial balance from the ministry is projected to be worth 250 billion, so about 2.5 billion euros per current rate. This is actually the key issue of the 2012 budget. You have hardly said a word in your opening statement, nor in this debate on amendments to the structure of huge problems, the way in which the PIO Fund goes to you almost 30% of the 2012 budget. Except for one sentence that you mentioned and which has remained unclear to me so far, which is that the effects of the crisis in our country are partly diminished by the fact that you have implemented the reforms of the PIO Fund. Please tell me who you've been making essential, structural reforms in these three and a half years as prime minister. Do you really think that Serbia can survive both as a state and as a system of some institutions and, finally, as a society, if we are to increase that amount each year? At the moment, there are only two billion euros from the finance ministry for the PIO Fund. It's budget money, it's the taxpayers' money of this country. Please, while you've been here for weeks, I've been trying to get an answer to a very specific question that the public is particularly concerned with the previous days, and it's also about the PIO Fund. So, my question, I came to you a little over a month ago, I think, is to tell me which 50 biggest debtors, or which 50 companies are the biggest debtors on the basis of unmistakable liabilities for the payments to the Republic Fund PIO. Meanwhile, some media outlets have tried to reach that answer. They've been denied that right. The Commissioner for information of public importance had to react. Part of your ministry, therefore the Tax Administration, has announced that this information cannot be published for the protection of personal data. Of course it's legal forgeries. You are referring to a law that protects exclusively personal data from natural persons, and my question concerns legal persons, therefore, the company. I did not ask for every citizen of Serbia, or for every employee in Serbia, how much on his account is owed on the basis of unpaid contributions, but which 50 companies in Serbia owe the most. Whether state-owned companies, i.e. state-owned enterprises and public enterprises, are among them. That's a very important question. These days, you are trying to impose an obligation on commercial entities, private companies, such as banks in this country to take care of their clients, or whether they are billing and paying contributions to the PIO Fund. The Director of the Tax Administration said at one point that banks have no moral right to refuse such a thing. That's what we can discuss. Perhaps Mr. Djidic is right, but I think that if we are also talking about moral obligations for the government, or you as prime minister, to have a moral obligation to say whether your, whether state-owned, whether government enterprises pay off those obligations, what is the situation in that segment of reconciliation obligations, whether you are connecting the internship, whether you write off your debts. That's all the information that neither the public in this country nor we as MPs can come. Here's a chance, that's one more time I'm saying -- a couple of excellencies, a budget question, answer me at this point. You don't have 50 if you can't, at least 10 biggest debtors, now or by the end of the day. I think it will help all of us, especially after the amendment of the Finance Committee to the Tax System and Administration Act. It's very important that we know that. The public is interested. There's an opportunity to answer at least one question from this narrow portfolio of yours, the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65397	It's been used five minutes since the authorized representative's time. You have one minute left at your disposal. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65398	Thank you. The problem with the confidentiality of these data is in some regulation that was passed in 2004 and it has different interpretations. Personally, I think it's bad for it to be a secret information and it needs to be open. In this context, as part of the law accompanying this budget, a single amendment has been proposed that will allow not only to answer that question, but also the largest debtors can be found on the website. So my answer is that if we waited from 2004 until the end of 2011, let's wait another 3-4 days for these amendments to the law to be passed and then we'll have a chance to see what the current situation is, and we'll follow it in the next period as it happens, whether new debtors appear or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65399	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65400	It won't work like that, Mr. Cvetkovic. So we can't wait three, four or ten days because you're asking us today to approve money for these state and public enterprises, for subsidies and for various other things. In order to decide whether or not we want to do so, we need to know whether these companies of yours, whose government is the real owner and the boss, are at peace with their obligations under the laws. It's not a question of interpreting one or two laws. In the meantime, a law on a single social security register has been passed that directly derivates that old provision that you call upon when you deny your answers to the public. I don't know, why do you have such a problem, you don't have a lot of these, especially these big businesses? Here, I'm interested in the EPS, "The Ways of Serbia", for Corridor 10, for "The Railways of Serbia" to settle their obligations, you don't have to do for smaller and smaller public enterprises. Now, just give these few questions to me at this point, and then we'll enjoy the New Year's on the site to read what the data is like for all the other companies. I don't think I'm asking too much of you right now. I hope you have that information or that someone from the Ministry can provide it to you today during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65401	The time available to the authorised representative has been used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65402	I don't think it's really too much for those who really want to know, and if they've waited seven years, they wait another three, four days. What I can say is that about 95% of the debt applies to private companies, but you'll have a chance to see. So far, it's such a situation, and I really think it's a very good circumstance that we've recognised together that it's a matter that needs to be made available to the public, that this government has taken that commitment upon itself and that it will meet it, so that this issue will be removed more from the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65403	National MP Bojan Djuric, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65404	Here we are going to end at this moment this part of our controversy. So, you're now saying that 95% of the total debt is related to private enterprises or 95% of the debtors are private enterprises? It's not the same. If 95% is long, then I really look forward to those answers on the site. I ask you to ensure the same opportunity for us to be available, to put into account the public and the MPs of what the Government has been since 2008, since you President of the Government, have been working with decisions to write off the debt to the Republic Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, since I have information that such decisions have been made in the meantime. You know, when you publish a list of debtors' amounts, then you won't see those amounts written off in the meantime. I think it's very important, if this really happened then the taxpayers in Serbia are damaged by very serious amounts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65405	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65406	For precision, you're right, debtor, not total debt, 95% of the debtor is private sector. As for the questions you've asked, and I can tell you, all these public enterprises that you mentioned were interested in knowing at least that much, I can tell you, none of these are outstanding contributions to PIO.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65407	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3, 19th and 24th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65408	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, very briefly, as Mr. Prime Minister would say, deciding between the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiation Process, so-called. Borko's office and the Office for Regulatory Reform and Analysis of the effects of the regulations, on the one hand, and the Fund for the Encouragement of Agricultural Development, on the other hand, I decided on a Fund to encourage the development of agriculture. We've heard a lot about this office for professional and operational affairs. We think we have a lot of professional bodies, bodies, agencies with ministries that can do professional and operational work, so it was completely unnecessary to form 131 agencies in this country. As for the Office for Regulatory Reform and the Analysis of the Effect of Regulations, I think that this reform is regulatory and analysis of how the regulations are implemented, we simply live on a daily basis, and we don't need an office to tell us how regulation reforms are implemented and how these regulations apply in everyday life. It really takes a lot of money for agriculture, given the importance of agriculture in our economy. When I decide on the Anti-doping Agency and the Youth Fund, I give priority to this young talent fund, since this Anti-doping agency is known to have serious problems in the conflict of interest of the Agency and members of the board of directors. We don't have an official reaction to the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65409	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, paragraphs 3 and 20 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65410	Thank you. With my amendment, I asked for an increase in the position of the co-ordination body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja from the current proposed 394 million to 494 million, which is exclusively in the economic classification – transfers to other levels of government, which are the funds used by the municipalities Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja for reconstruction projects, construction of municipal and road infrastructure and public works facilities, which are reduced by 50 million in the proposal, as well as each year are sub-cessionally reduced by the coordinating body and budgets and rebalancing. In the end, one piece remains untapped and returns to the state budget. I think the substance of the amendment is the necessary need to achieve the goal set by the government in 2001, which refers to the economic rehabilitation of this area. As the economic situation is even more difficult now than in 2001, we have the Presevo municipality which has seven times lower national income per capita than the corresponding national average, the unemployment rate in all three municipalities is recordable and since the republican government is not achieving its own goal, its own programme for more than 10 years, then it is time to try to try to, in addition to these infrastructure projects, which are also necessary, part of the funds, these 100 million, to encourage economic development, to finally, after more than ten years, start working to solve the most difficult problem right now. You know, since last year, except for Roma, Albanians from these municipalities are the most common asylum seekers in Belgium, even in all other countries. I don't even think there was any interest in the government or in this composition to follow the USAID, which is the only one currently, two, three years ago, that has started helping several of these smaller businesses, to increase the volume of work, to try to employ new workers. Such incentives have never been made by the government before. I think that not only the USAID, but also these other countries that are now, would turn out to be threatened by asylum seekers, and also visa liberalisation, it is said that occasionally it is jeopardizing because of these asylum seekers, then it is the turn for the most underdeveloped areas to be something concrete through the coordination body that is for that purpose, after all, when this coordination body has been formed, there have been armed conflicts and it has been a prejudicial goal, but in a later period, when we no longer have a state of war, we don't have an emergency, I guess the coordination body has to deal with these issues, economically, in order to open up the perspectives for citizens in this area to live normally, that we don't have to look for solutions around the world. In that direction, I think that, in addition to those interested who are shown by the American Agency for International Development, it is also tried in the direction of similar agencies in Belgium, Germany, Sweden, where asylum seekers go from this area, so that finally something is done, to create the possibility of people coming to work where they live, where they have their own houses, and that they don't have to look for those solutions everywhere in the world. Once again in the end, I confirm that it has not been through the coordination body so far, it has not dealt with the coordination body of these life problems. There were some spectacular projects that were more for cheap political points than for solving the most sensitive problems of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65411	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 7th Sections 3 and 22th of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, sections 3, 14, 16, 19, 22, 51, 52, 53 and 54 of the amendment were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic, who wants a word. National MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65412	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the first part of the amendment I submitted, contrary to Mr. Halimi's amendments, refers to a 100m dinar transfer to the government of the Republic of Serbia's co-ordination body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, because these municipalities should be financed as other local self-governments in Serbia. I think it is of national importance to break up with further duplication and division because citizens of these municipalities, as well as citizens of all Serbia, live unfairly badly in difficult economic and social conditions that we didn't deserve, except perhaps eleven years of voting for DOS parties. Why is this government, like all others, since 2000 Medvedju, which belongs to the Jablanic district and where about 30% of Albanian citizens live, persistently connects with Presevo and Bujanovac, and all to the harm of the Republic of Serbia? The amendment to the second part at the same time requires that these funds be allocated to the KIM Ministry and distributed to our local self-governments there, apparently forgotten by the native owners. The Republic of Serbia has been reducing its expenditure for the southern province for years. That is why the amount of 100 million dinars should be rerouted to strengthen the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to KIM. Citizens of the Serbian Nationality in KIM live in much more difficult conditions than all other citizens and need to create conditions for better and better quality life for building roads, water supply, electricity supply, construction and reconstruction of schools, kindergartens, hospitals and other projects or financing of health, education and social services, but not to be like all your other strategies a dead letter on paper that will not be implemented. Now, I hope, by the power of my arguments, I have persuaded you, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, to accept this amendment, or I am sure that I would at least convince him if this discriminatory Rules of Procedure allowed me to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65413	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Riza Halimi, straight to replica, two minutes. (Zoran Krasic, from the site: On what basis? I ask the People’s MPs not to receive and not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure by which the discard is forbidden. National MP Zoran Krasic and MP Momir Markovic, I warn you of the decency and listening to other participants in the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65414	I think it states which few ideas and concepts were used are not sustainable, because we know that we do not compare, far, far more funds are directed towards Serb municipalities. Some data show that there are 5,000 euros per capita, at least ten times more than is invested in all areas of life in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. Still some guidance in that direction would be absolutely illogical, unwarranted. I don't know what would be justified, except by some desire or strength, which one can have in a certain part of society or in a whole society. Often there is an opinion here that these funds that are directed at Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji are extra funds, which is absolutely not true. Whenever the presidents of these municipalities apply for funds in other republican investment funds they get an answer – you have a coordinating body. There is a co-ordination body as a mediator and because of some previous bad practice that they could not reach the funds of these development investment funds, then through a coordination body it is possible for these municipalities to realise certain projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65415	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic. Time is available to the parliamentary group for 39 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to answer, Mr. Riza Halimi is not telling the truth. Mr. Halimi, there is no statistical document that will put any other municipality at the bottom of the scale of economic and social opportunities in Serbia under Tgovište, Bojnik, Leban, Vladic's Han and Bosilegrad. The fact that you and the SRS don't share or deal with problems together and we're looking for solutions you don't understand and you call it an unsustainable concept, it's a political project in your heads. That's not true. In southern Serbia, ten times worse than Presevo and Bujanovac live the citizens of Bosilegrad, first of all, live the citizens of the Shop and live the citizens of Vladic's Han in the Pcinj County, ten times the living people of Majornik, Leban and Black Grass who are in the Jablani County, so we don't go through Toplici etc. Therefore, you are the political inspiration of the story of the unsustainable concept of community down there, and through this unity by solving the problem together with solving the problem. You're not at risk down there because you're Shipari or Albanians, but because you're in an area where the government doesn't understand. I have a similar amendment and I'll talk about it later. When you talk about your endangered position, tell Mr. Halimi – what kind of salary do doctors in Presevo receive? Did I ask you, Mr. Cvetkovic, that the regulation that doctors in Presevo have 50% higher salaries in the doctor in Vranj, than doctors in Surdulica, was abolished by doctors in the Shop? Don't act crazy and don't let the problems that are life and which are inspired by the irresponsibility of the policy they run in this country create political problems and divide us down. Mr. Halimi, you're looking for something that you didn't list? Show a responsible attitude towards the state you're asking for something. Speaking of lists, Mr. Halimi, in the area of the Pcin County, the largest reduction in the population is indeed in Presevo. Twenty-one change per cent of Serbs live less in Presevo than in the 2001-2002 census, when it was listed. That's right, Mr. Halimi, because you didn't even sign. So much for the life your political elite creates for the Serbs down there and your need to live together and solve our problems. It's not our problem. We are the problem with those who have no hearing for such a thing, who think that in southern Serbia live by the model that is in "The mouth", "Delta City" or another shopping mall in Belgrade. We have a problem with them. To understand them change the concept and approach to solving problems in southern Serbia. And the greater effect on you, your life, my life and the life of all my colleagues in southern Serbia would have an amendment that we asked for two billion to be added to agriculture, so that your Albanians and Shipari, however you wish, would receive in Presevo that grant for a plastic or for any other agricultural or any other action. It's a solution to the problem. Don't tell us fairy tales about an unsustainable concept. That's just not true. These are projections politically inspired from Pristina to Presevo and Bujanovac in some heads. The SRS is convinced that down there, we could all live together and better, if unitedly towards the government, and not apart from you Serbs living down there, sharing the heavy and the same fate as you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65417	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65418	Thank you. The relationship you have with the Shiptars or Albanians is that you cannot identify yourself – are we Albanians or Shipari? That already speaks enough of your approach to other nationalities. When you talk about community, and the schools that worked together in Presevo are 90 years apart, here somewhere when you were in power. As for the level of development, I can tell you, read the latest published statistics since 2006 on municipalities in Serbia. It says there that the corrected folk income to the resident in Presevo municipality is 14.7% of the national average. Trade and Bosilegrad are also underdeveloped, but they have about 17%, 18% to 20%. Look, if you're as interested as you are in, as many people have been reported at the Labour Market Office, the Office of the Unemployed. It's recordable. Nearly 10,000 have been reported in Presevo, and imagine only those who have no perspective and absolutely have no chance, or apply. That's what I'm talking about, in this community, the current rate of underdevelopment is the most convincing in the entire country. That is why I gave the amendment, to see if the government has not been interested so far in doing something to encourage economic development, to reduce the record unemployment rate, to allow at least municipalities to be more active in creating new jobs through small businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65419	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65420	Mr. Halimi, I suppose it's your turn to say first whether you're the Shipari or the Albanians? You don't know what you are. That's one thing. Second... (President: Please, People's Messenger, listen to me. People's MP Suleiman Spah, please read the Rules of Procedure, which says he can't throw himself away. Would you like a reminder? (Sulajman Spaho: I am a Serb Muslim religion. No, I don't want a warning. ) (President: You do not want a reminder. You want to break the Rules of Procedure without getting a warning? It's a parliamentary group strategy. So, People's Parliament, please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, address other Members of the People. I'm very closely following the debate. Very carefully. By looking at the stenogram, you'll see that there are reasons why the MP gets a replica. The dilemma he mentioned, you brought up the debate. Please, be careful with treatment and with, essentially, a delicate subject if you want to hear it loudly during the session of the National Assembly. ) Madam Vice President of the Assembly, a dilemma which I, truthfully, have brought into debate with completely different aspects I have introduced, both from your position and from Mr. Halimi's position. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Halimi can be one and the other and the third. But you and he should understand, if you haven't already, since I see you have a problem with my dilemma, we don't have a problem because we are or we aren't this or what, but the government has no understanding for southern Serbia, whoever lives on it. You're politically abusing it. Mr. Halimi, the co-ordination body cannot resolve unemployment, it is resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in general, economic policy, which will create space and opportunity to hire both young and fired from Presevo, whether they are Shipari or Albanians, Serbs, Roma or I don't know who live either. It's a fundamental problem and it's the concept of the SRS. We don't share people in the Shiparas, Albanians or Serbs, we share people in the robbery privatisation process, or people who have completed schools without any perspective are because the government doesn't want to show understanding for all its citizens. As far as statistics are concerned, your statistics are correct, but from 2006. Take the 2010 statistics, and see what municipality in southern Serbia is at the beginning of all Serb municipalities compared to the salary per capita, so you will see how wrong you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65421	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Riza Halimi, right on line. This closes the circle of replicas, the exchange of arguments about the amount of average earnings in certain municipalities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65422	I have had opportunities in this assembly before to speak on whether we are Albanians, what we are, and where this name of Shiptar comes from, that, in its own time, in historical contexts, it has been misused. Radicals, I think that only they may have someone else here and there who helps them in this anti-civilisation treatment against one nation and artificially trying to use the term - Albanians in Albania, and for Albanians in Kosovo, in the Presevo Valley, Macedonia, some others invent the name - Shipari. The fact is that Albanians call themselves Shiptars, but the whole world calls them Albanians. I don't see why the whole world would particularly separate radicals. When I talk about these funds, I know it's official, separated by municipalities in 2006 for the last time, and since 2006 there has been no activity here to improve the situation. She's even worse. Why are people forced to leave their centuries-old hearths to go around the world and be forced to return violently because they have absolutely no other employment opportunities? The whole generation can't get a job. Even in Pristina and Gjilan, they succeed, although Kosovo is far more underdeveloped than Serbia. And in the municipalities of this country, people don't stand a chance, they've been waiting for years, they don't have any perspective to mess with. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65423	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Riza Halimi insulted the SRS MP group when he said that we use the name "Shiptar" for members of that national minority that Mr. Halimi belongs to, which is absolutely untrue... (President: People's MP, if it were an insult and a violation of the Rules of Procedure, they would have been entitled to replication. Since it is not and since every MP in this assembly has the right to express his position in the Rules of Procedure in a certain way, I ask that you no longer interfere with the work of violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I have the right to explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65425	You can't, because if it were an insult to the parliamentary group, you'd be entitled to a replica. Since there was no insult from the parliamentary group, I thank you. National MP Marko Milenkovic has a word. Here you go. I now warn MP Zoran Krasic that or learn somehow that self-control, self-control is an obligation not only by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or by giving notice, whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that Mr. Halimi now hears and knows, when he apparently overheard in my first presentation, that citizens across Serbia live on the edge of existence, especially the citizens of the Pcinj County, the municipalities listed by my colleague Dragan Stevanovic and Toplici County, who also gave this government several ministers. Apparently, the people of Toplice are only good before the elections and when it comes to military and war. We need to ask the irresponsible government to shut down the agencies, do a privatisation review and stop robbing certain tycoons, and we'll all live better. One responsible government led by the SRS and Vojislav Seselj is needed, so Mr Halimi will also have, as will all national minorities and all citizens of Serbia, hyperprotectionist treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65427	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) To Article 7. Split 3rd and 37th amendments were submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65428	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Split 3, 17 – Office with co-operation with civil society, function 110, grant of the international organisation in columns 9 and 11 amounts: "5.950,000" to be deleted. Here, it is well explained and said that the funds of this economic classification are allocated for the cost of participation or financing of the contributions of the Republic of Serbia to the European Parliament, Europe of citizens and citizens established by the European Commission, the European Parliament and the SE 2006 and will be implemented by 2013. You are well aware that the SRS is against the financing of the EU programme. But from this discussion, Mr. Prime Minister, we can say that in order to reach these pre-accession funds, Serbia must give up six million dinars in order to secure some kind of membership card, in order to allegedly address citizens and citizens. This is Serbia and it should address the Serbian people in the Republic of Serbia. The second item is in section 3, where the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, function 140, economic classification, etc., column 9, the amount "400,000" is replaced by "6.350,000" in column 11 "900,000" is replaced by "6.850,000". Mr. President, as chairman of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, you responded here that the amendment was accepted in part, so that all items could be increased by a total of 10 million dinars. You know that for more than a decade, but especially in this last decade, there are major problems in the Serbian state. We have a latent outflow of the best and youngest. The best chefs, the welders, the masters, the paintmen, but also the best scientists. What's tragic is that not only did the first echelon of the best go after him first to the best, but the second to the third. From that and such a remnant was created the present elite, with rare and honorable exceptions. There's a logarithm of logarithm left. Such a logarithmic elite today rules Serbia. The composition and skeleton of that elite has been completely changed. Serbia has practically disappeared from the scene and a natural replacement has gone into the world. How did Serbia's mind-taking by the West occur, at the level of high school? I wonder how and how this science and those scientific institutes that you destroyed with this criminal privatisation will survive today? You've destroyed the great giants. They were destroyed by those institutes. Now I ask you how and how do you support these institutes today? In these institutions, we held these meetings of the Committee on Science and Technological Development for the first time, and I must tell you that I was amazed – 95% of these institutes support themselves from the budget and only 5% are supported by their work. Why? Because you destroyed the economy. Why didn't you destroy Michaelo Pupin Institute with Mr. Vukratovic? You're not because he was an expert on the economy. This is the difference today between what you have done in these 10 years with this criminal privatisation, i.e., you have thrown the strongest potential that Serbia has, which is science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65429	It was used two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of Sections 3 and 37 of the amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65430	Dear MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the following content: "In Article 7 of Section 3, the Government, the Office for Co-operation with Civil Society, Economic Classification 511, in columns 9 and 11, the amount of "11,923 dinars" is replaced by "923 dinars". In section 37, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, function 140, economic classification 411, the amount "133,000" is replaced by "144,000". In my explanation, I stated that the SRS is against funding so-called financing. The civil sector in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This amendment shifts 11 million dinars to SANU, as its work is of far greater importance for the Republic of Serbia than the work of an office that is related to the achievement of so-called "the so-called "San". European integration. So, with the amendment, I ask for an increase in the budget for SANU, so that it can carry out its sublime national and cultural function through Serbian scientific projects. I propose the allocation of additional funds to free SANU from donations and tutorships of anti-Serbian European foundations that impose their scientific analytical globalist policy. When I spoke about the SANU Act, I proposed an amendment that requires the release of ideological and political influences to act autonomously and independently. The amendment wasn't even accepted then. So it is necessary to give the academics full freedom of national, patriotic and scientific action, as it was in the late 1980s when Serbian academics, through an unfinished memo, wanted to draw attention to the intolerable position of the Serb people in anti-Serbian Brozo Yugoslavia. Academics had material problems at the end of the 19th century, especially for research, and those that were not ideologically and politically similar at a certain point. A free national scientific thought at the Academy has long been hampered since the end of the 19th century. Ideological political incompatibility has often been an obstacle to the knowledge of academics. A characteristic case is a Serb from Boka Kotorska, Riste Kovacic, who, due to his serious scientific research, never became a member of the Serbian Royal Academy, which at the time was dominated by austrophilic advances. His exact scientific research didn't like the same individual academics back then. In September 1884, in the Italian province of Molizej, where the colony lived in front of the Turkish-run Smederjev Serbs, Kovačić was worth exploring as a member of the Serbian-learned society. Today, budget funds, which could possibly be allocated to the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, could also be used to explore the history of the prayer Serbs. Research that had just taken place at the end of the 19th century by then by potential academician Risto Kovacic, who had never completed. Kovacic's example is only a good illustration that a certain foreign ideological and political course forced an impact on Serbian science, as well as on scientific work at the Academy at the time. The then Obrenovic Serbian state has stepped down material resources to explore the history of Serbs on the Apeninian Peninsula, Serbs who have become Croats today. This amendment also applies to the study of the neglected scientific and cultural history of the Dubrovnik Serbs. For example, the Serbian origin of world voice scientists, a Serb Roman Catholic, Ruđer Boskovic, whose 400-year anniversary of Serbia's birth has been modestly marked. Then, for example, to study the history of the Serbian Mother of Dubrovnik. A hundred-year-old Matica, unfortunately, has not marked any Serbian institutions, so neither the Serbian Academy nor the Serbian Matica in Novi Sad. The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts can use the subsequently allocated funds for the scientific rehabilitation of the forgotten philosopher and dialectologist from Dubrovnik, Milan Rešetar. It is enough to give an example that he was in the grip of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia because of the persistent defence of Serbian language, Serbian dialects, so the academic became only in March 1941. That's why his philology rival, who moved from language Serbian to capitulant language Serbo-Croatianism, became an academic many years earlier. The recently deceased academician Pantic left excellent works and archives on Dubrovnik and on the Serbs of the Roman Catholics. Part of the money can also be used to publish its works and archives. It is necessary to point out the victim's personality for a Serb who protested against the 1974 amendments and the 1974 Constitution, so he earned a prison sentence, lost his job as a university professor and died as an academic without an apartment. It's about academics and famous scientist Michael Djuric. Increased funds could be used for an affirmation-related project -- Serbian language and letters, for example, on the topic of verbs, as a variant of the Serbian-Slaven Cyrillic, or money for the project -- waiting as a Serbian dialect with elements of Romanian. So the money that would be allocated to the Serbian Academy of Sciences instead of this European office could be much better used. In the end, I believe that the state should begin to cultivate the profile of national academics, such as historian Radovan Samardzic, classical philosopher and historian of the cosmetic history of Bogdanović, art historian Dejan Medaković, historian Slavko Gavrilović, who scientifically audited the wrong hypotheses on Western Serbia, so science is all about Croatian development, i.e. in the area of three counties around Zagreb. The money should be allocated to national academics, such as the famous historians Milorad Etničić, vatcanologist Dragoljub Živojnović, historian Vasilija Krestic. It should not be forgotten that today at the Serbian Academy of Sciences also sits an international influential academic who is preparing the ideological and political direction of academics. In the end, it is a shame, Mr. Minister and President, that you did not transfer these 11 million dinars to the Serbian Academy of Science and Art to improve the work of this significant Serbian institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65431	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, the SRS has submitted an amendment asking 45 million, namely 43,687,000, which you have devoted to the government's Vice-President's budget to shift and to focus on strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. In particular, to transfer to Kosovo's administrative district. You know, I suppose you know, Mr Cvetkovic, that you no longer have a Deputy Prime Minister, who was in charge of European integration, because Bozidar Djelic, after that hot slap he received from the EU, in the light of not giving candidate status and in the light of the fully open blackmail that Serbia must give up KIM, must respect the territorial integrity of Kosovo, as German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said, not even Bozidar Djelic's face, which is known as one of the most important cheeks on the political scene, not only Serbia but broadly, he did not stand up and he resigned. However, you are very broadly planning to continue to fund his cabinet. We were guided by sound logic and we hoped that you finally realized that these European integration had nothing to do with it. This amendment fully illustrates the situation in which Serbia, where your government, Mr Cvetkovic, is now located, must be defined between the EU and KIM. This colourful lie and that lie, I can say freely, in which you have convinced us for years, that this is separate colossals and that at the same time can preserve the sovereignty of KIM and on the other hand go to the EU, now no one believes it. Now it is quite obvious that these blackmails by the EU's leading countries are bare to the end, and you are now obliged to give the citizens of Serbia an answer to the question whether you will respect all those agreements that are anti-constitutional and illegal and which you have concluded under the pressure of Brussels, in which you have committed to working on the formation of parent services in Kosovo. You have also committed yourself to working on the formation of a Kosovo disaster. You accepted as second-degree, as the Supreme Court of Kosovo's competent authority. You accepted the Kosovo Catastrian Agency. You've accepted the Ship's ID cards. You accepted their driver's licenses, their traffic licenses. You accepted the registration codes of the RKS, the Republic of Kosovo or Kosovo. So you practically accept all of their institutions. In order for any Serb to register his vehicle now, according to the agreement, to use either the RKS or the KS tables. To do that, he has to take his I.D. To get a ID, he has to take their citizenship. To take their citizenship, he must accept his nationality as a Kosovar. It's something that's unacceptable for all Serbs living on KIM. You, Mr Cvetkovic, must decide, must wake up from that winter dream and say – either the institutions of the Republic of Serbia or the dream of the EU in which no one believes anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65433	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65434	Ladies and gentlemen, the government suggests that its Office for Media Relations next year has 1150,000 dinars at its disposal for contract services, and we suggest that the Office has 150,000 dinars at its disposal and 11 million are directed in the Pećki district of KIM, Serbs living in the East, Gorazdevc and Osjejan. On the one hand, we have a government propaganda bureau that convinces citizens of Serbia that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing its job well and that the misery in which they live is some kind of personal and subjective feeling. On the other hand, we have Serbs at KIM who are currently doing the most important national task for the Serbian people, living on KIM. As long as there are Serbs in KIM, Serbia's struggle to preserve its southern province makes sense and is not in vain. I remind you that there are 131 agencies, councils, committees, offices, with more than 1,000 employees, that those citizens of the Republic of Serbia will cost 22m euros next year. I think that money is better used for what we propose, for opening 7,000 jobs in KIM, in Merošina, in the Shop, Zajecar, Crno Trava and Knjižec, Medvedji, Surdulica and in municipalities in southern Serbia. How important this is, it also says that we in the Republic of Serbia have more than 2,000 villages and villages in which there is no life. There is absolutely no single population in them. The houses are deserted, abandoned, abandoned estates, abandoned orchards, abandoned cemetery. For 22m euros, these cities, these municipalities can be built around 3,000 apartments. To end this argument, to say that there are more than 200 villages in the Republic of Serbia where there are no inhabitants under the age of 20. In the village of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, who once had 300 tractors, today there are not even 300 residents, and there are three students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65435	On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65436	Ladies and gentlemen, I must conclude that the work of the European Integration Office, which was founded on 14 March 2004, did not bring positive effects. I'll list some of the arguments that confirm it. A negative relationship between the European Council on Serbia's EU bid, the damage to the SAA by Serbia's economy, in terms of a huge loss suffered by the Republic of Serbia's budget. That the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia has been questioned, the failure of the National Programme for the Integration of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, as regards sub-legislative rules, the non-compliance of legal acts sent into the procedure of the National Assembly and the harmful impact of EU law on the coherence of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the increase of the so-called "Serbs". European bureaucracy in the Republic of Serbia during the economic crisis. All this clearly indicates that there is no justification for the Office for European Integration spending money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why 11 million fixed costs should be shifted towards strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to KIM through the work of administrative districts, in this case the Prizren Management District. For the past few months, we've been constantly listening from the so-called. European friends of the current Serbian government that Serbian institutions at KIM should be abolished, they call Serbian institutions parallel. The SRS has expressed its view on it. I will repeat once again that the Serbian institutions in KIM should be strengthened, not abolished. One of the most needed ways to strengthen Serbian institutions is financially. That's why the subsequent club SRS submitted this amendment. We insist that government representatives reconsider once more the amendment that the SRS has submitted and give up a vain attempt to bring the EU closer, because it does not want Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65437	Twenty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65438	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Section 7 of Section 3 - Government, Chapter 3 of point 8) of the European Integration Office, function 110, EC 422, travel costs 9 and 11, amounting to 1000,000 dinars, are replaced by 100,000 dinars. In heading 50 – Administrative district, Chapter 50 point 28) of the Kosovo-Mitrovic administrative district, function 130, EC 421, fixed costs in columns 9 and 11, the amount of 459.000 is replaced by the amount of 10,459.000 dinars. The reason for this amendment lies because the negative effect we have achieved with the implementation of the SAA from 2008 to 2011, the failure to comply with the National Programme for the Integration of the Republic of Serbia in the EU, as regards sublaws, the failure to comply with the legal acts to be sent to the National Assembly procedure, the adverse impact on the EU on the coherence of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the economic losses resulting from the implementation of the transitional trade agreement in the Republic of Serbia's budget and the increase in so on. European bureaucracy in the Republic of Serbia during the economic crisis shows that the work of the Office for European Integration does not bring positive effects. Therefore, the amount of costs planned for travel of 10 million should be shifted to strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the KIM area. One of these institutions that needs to be strengthened is the institutions of administrative districts and local self-government. Do not use the example of the KIM minister, who disbanded 12 congregations in KIM territory, with an explanation for inefficient work and inadequate conditions, but he says he has the right to do so. He should also look at his second obligation – that within six months he had to call the elections to make those local governments at KiM function. By shutting down local self-government, we are in a position to weaken Serbian interests, the Serb Corps and the Serb force in the KIM area, and you are currently working on this wasteful path to the EU, destroying Serbia, especially in the KIM area, and that price will be paid by the Serb people living in the KIM area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65439	Thirty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been issued by MP Dejan Mirovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65440	You have seen that all our amendments are very meaningful and appropriate, because we believe that after the European Council's decision that Serbia's EU membership bid has been rejected, it should be rerouted, and that is appropriate, there is no passion, these funds to strengthen our institutions to KIM, to strengthen social giving to health, education and all that we consider to be the only party in Serbia, that is much more important than so-called. The European integration that has shown itself is very well explained by Mr Kragovic, both in law and in economic and political terms as bad for the Republic of Serbia. We do not see why the prime minister and government do not accept our amendments, do not accept Mr Kragovic's amendment. It has been shown that this European path, I repeat, in economic, political and in any other sense, is pointless and there is no guarantee that negotiations on EU accession will ever begin, let alone membership. Surely you know the gift for these negotiations takes ten years, that it is 35 chapters of European law. And afterwards, the question is whether Serbia will come to sign an accession agreement or a contract that would mean entering a third-rate status in the EU, which probably does not even have Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and all those countries that are in a terrible economic crisis precisely because of the EU's demands, precisely because of the IMF and those who wrote this budget. In that sense, I believe, we from the SRS, that this amendment should be accepted by Mr Kragovic, because it is excellent, because it is in line with Serbian national interests and is in line with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65441	A minute and 50 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. At Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65442	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Prime Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The proposal for a law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget, which requires a reduction of the office's expenditure on European integration, and increases those for the Kosovo-Pomoral Administrative District. The European Integration Office spends every year huge amounts of money taken by citizens of Serbia. The EU is an informed enemy of Serbia's citizens. They kidnap our KIM and steal Serbia's mining treasure in the southern Serbian province worth 1,000 billion euros. Only supplies of lignite on KIM, which unfeelingly exploit Brussels and Washington, are worth 110 billion euros. There are uranium sites that are particularly interested in Washington, as well as huge supplies of the most important resource of the 21st century of blue gold, or water. A lead concentrate that almost every day leaves trucks with Croatian, Bosnian and Montenegrin plates from Serbia's Trepce, worth 4,000 euros per tonne. The SRS delegation in the beginning of December took pictures of a truck convoy in Kosovo Mitrovica carrying a lead concentrate worth 2m euros to sell in the west via Montenegro and Albania, and at the expense of the Serbian budget. With the support of Boris Tadic, Serbia's ore treasure is being missed by the EU and the US, as well as by Croatian, Montenegrin and Cypriot criminals. Billions of euros are thus taken away from the citizens of Serbia and generations to come. That is why no money should be paid for a pointless European integration office, as European integration costs Serbs more than anything else. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65443	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sladjan Mijaljević submitted to article 7 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65444	I have submitted an amendment that reads – that in Article 7 split chapter 38 - The Office for European Integrations is removed two million dinars, and in section 50 – administrative district, Chapter 5026 of the Management District of 130 to erase those 500,000 and replace it with a number of 2.5 million. We consider that so-called. European integration does not make Serbia progress in economic, legal and political terms. The SRS is also against funding NGOs from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is why the amount of two million should be shifted towards strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to KIM. The explanation that this amendment has been rejected is indeed, for me, quite illogical. It says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the total removal of the amount of funds would put pressure on the legislative authorities, financial and fiscal affairs and external affairs of the proposed amount, endanger the financing of the office's activities to encourage co-operation with associations and other NGOs. I am really wondering, here I am also a member of this Assembly Committee on European Integration, which we in the jargon call "The Committee on European Disintegration", which in the end turned out to be true, that after these ten, eleven years of wandering in the dark, we still need to finance some fog wandering. How long are we gonna play those more lost geese? It's really amazing. While on the other hand, real heroes in defending Serbia's statehood in KIM are increasingly and more you give up on them, even forgetting them, and along with your territory you want to hand over to someone else who absolutely doesn't deserve it. For me, this is indeed a shameful act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65445	Anyone else want a word? MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65446	I think this amendment should be accepted, because Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević has made an excellent statement on what is the essence of all our amendments. Mrs. Vervain Radeta also spoke about it. So rerouting funds from something that's failed means so-called. European integration into something more important for citizens of Serbia, social giving, health care, economy and, of course, strengthening our institutions to KIM. In that sense, our experts, Mr. Ivan Ninic and Mr. Ratko Licin, came up with a comparative analysis in the budget, where donations to NGOs, in this 2012 budget, believed or not, are 5.5 billion dinars. That is, I believe, and I'm sorry that there is no Prime Minister here to answer that question. It is too much of a burden for such a poor country that has such problems, above all with unemployment and other problems, which are caused by the unconditional phrase that the EU has no alternative. We also believe that, and that is the same essence of all our amendments and amendments to Mr. Mijalijevic, that it is simply necessary to cut those costs that are too high. In this sense, our experts, Mr. Ninic and Licin, have also come up with another comparative analysis of this budget, where again one data that confuses and which, in fact, catastrophic, costs of travel in total are 10 billion dinars or 100m euros. All of our amendments, that's what Ms. Verica Radeta was talking about, are aimed at reducing these travel costs to Brussels, towards these meetings that bring nothing good, with European institutions, and that bring only negative effects, because you're going to admit these 10 billion dinars is a lot and that 100 million euros. At the very least, it should be reduced to a much smaller amount. And these 50m euros, which we have saved in fact in these amendments, focus on health, education, student standard, our military, science, research and all those institutions that can lead to the economic and national improvement of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65447	Two minutes used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, the People's MP Dragan Stevanovic has submitted 3 and 50 amendments. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65448	This amendment, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is a good basis to continue that story that we did a little while ago, or the polemic we ran with colleague Riza Halijmi, since this amendment proposed that 15 million dinars from the position of grant to NGOs within the co-ordination body be awarded to the Prizren administrative district. Because I have to say, these problems in southern Serbia, the problems you're trying to solve in a completely pointless way, in a co-ordination body, you can't solve either, which you advocate, understand the problem that southern Serbia has. Only people who come from below can talk about this. Only people who share everyday life with the Shiptars and the Bulgarians and the Roma and all those who live downstairs. And as many as those people who belong to the nation will be represented by people like my colleague, Riza Halimi, who wonders here, why the Shiptari of southern Serbia leave, and he for 15 or 20 years as a key political figure on behalf of these people makes political decisions. Now I ask on behalf of the SRS and him and Mr. Cvetkovic in absentia, who is to blame for the fact that conditions are not created below to at least a little quality of life for all of us living down there. The Serbian Radical Party here has not only talked about the problem in Presevo and Bujanovac, we are also talking about problems in Bulgaria's Bosilegrad, who has hearing about these people. Why don't you make one co-ordination body for Bosilegrad as well? Let's help them in an artificial way, Mr. Cvvtvik. In response to my amendment, you say - that money is necessary to be given to NGOs in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji, in order to further improve civil society organisation into three municipalities in the fields of culture, sports, information. Sir, Cvetkovic, as a folk MP today, yesterday and tomorrow I cannot visit on TV Bujanovac, who is the founder of SO Bujanovac. I can't say, as a MP, an SRS position that I'm not even going to step down from the attitude I'm talking about today. But in the Republic Assembly, Mr. Halimi can say what he wants and on that same television, he can say what he wants. And you finance it all, you promote civil society. The effects are completely lagging behind. Mr. Cvetkovic, the coordination body can't solve anything, launder money and throw themselves away for nothing. Because Mr. Cvetkovic, as much as you promote civil society, the dominant part of that society in southern Serbia did not want to be listed. A dominant part of that society, Mr Cvetkovic carries Albanian flags in the middle of Serbia, attaches them to the Bujanovac municipality of Presevo, which are the buildings of the Republic of Serbia when it is the Day of the Flag in Albania. What you still need to happen down there, to realize that the concept, the political concept of regulating these relationships, is not good and that the coordination body needs to be abolished. Mr. Cvetkovic, you need to turn around and see how the people truly live down there. To see how Serbs, Shipari and Bulgarians live. I was just a few days ago, but a few days ago, I was saying that six months ago your government was unable to clean up, to take the dives off a master's path that connects Surdulica and Bosilegrad. Six months you've been unable to clear the way. Afterwards, Serbs are guilty that the Bulgarian national minority is rightly going to be treated free of charge in Bulgaria and there to be educated, because they cannot be educated at their universities or treated in their hospitals. Because you, Mr. Cvetkovic, your government, have no hearing or understanding what is happening in Serbia at all. You don't care. I told you, Mr. Cvetkovic, life in Serbia is not life in Delta City and life in the mouth or at another shopping mall in Serbia. You don't deserve to be Prime Minister, you don't deserve to lead the government. I'm not saying you're the worst solution, there are worse ones. Imagine these offerings to Milan Beck. These co-workers of yours on the European path would be Beka. In that variant, Joca Amsterdam would probably be the minister of infrastructure, since it should build bridges, as an honorary citizen of this society. So, Mr. Cvetkovic, accept this amendment won't make you wrong. You will not make a mistake, because it will not essentially change, someone will wash 15 million dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the effects will remain entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65449	Three minutes and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? On Article 7 of Section 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65450	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS and the four of you from the ruling coalition, I think this is a picture as much as you are interested in the budget, you know you've prepared 126, and the budget will certainly pass. Since the transcript from this session, today, or tomorrow, already reads politicians, lawyers, economists, and a little later there and historians, I would suggest to Mr Cvetkovic to call urgently the government's telephone session and make a decision to nominate and replace places. And then we're going to do a lexis, linguistically and grammatically, because I didn't submit an amendment to the bill, but to the bill, to the budget, but to the budget. Let me remind you, that is, to remind those who chase "what" and "what." The nominative says - who or what, the genius - whose, who or what. Now let's move on to the amendment. I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to the government under this number of 411-aircraft services in the work relating to salaries and remuneration of employees in Section 3. I think we got a little confused here, because as far as I can remember, you're not gonna buy that plane and I'm wondering how many of them are in that air force, since the number we talked about was 59 million. We asked the amendment to reduce it by 30 million, and to move that part to a division related to the Kosovo-Mitrovina district. For what? First of all, the government's last moves say that you've begun to give up the kim openly, until now it's been done in secret. It seems to me that two men, two key men, one minister, and one head of some kind of office, have gone to great lengths for their publishing work. If these funds were to be transferred below, it is safe to improve the lives of citizens, i.e. Serbs, to KIM, and it is certain that the administrative district would be strengthened, it would certainly become a good part of the brakes for the final solution, according to you and the EU, KIM. In your explanation, you say why you did not accept my amendment, the amendment is not accepted because the social contributions that go to the employer's burden are not covered by my amendment. It is normal that if the funds that are allocated to the salaries are transferred to another classification. It is also normal for the contributions accompanying these funds to be transferred to another classification. Therefore, I suggest that Mr. Cvetkovic adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65451	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to article 7 of Sections 3 and 50. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65452	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is a country, which, with its back and this poor population, singles out millions of euros for funding by some NGOs. The SRS opposes such spending of budget funds because we consider these NGOs to be ordinary flow boilers for spending and money laundering. There are thousands of other things where budgets should be directed. For example, to target these funds to those who have suffered huge damages from elemental disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, the city, gliding sites, etc. It is the inhabitants of the Kolubar district, the municipalities of Valjevo, Ljig, Mininica, Osijek, Ub and Lajkovac. So I asked my amendment to move the funds to the office for co-operation with civil society to the Kolubara district affected by the earthquake. I hope that the representatives of the government will also vote for this amendment of mine, especially when there is one fact in mind. Namely, when the Emergency Act was only a month ago, a fellow ruling majority member, Djordje Milicevic, otherwise from Valjev, promised to support my amendment. I quote the words George Milicevic from the stenogram. "Please propose an amendment, we will be very happy to vote and support that amendment and that we will address the issue of rebuilding and rebuilding and rehabilitating these facilities and houses destroyed in the devastating earthquake that hit the Kolubar County in 1998. Propose an amendment, we will be very happy to support this amendment." It's a finished quote. I expect Mr. Milicevic to keep his word and voice to direct these funds to the Kolubar district, in the municipalities of Valjevo, Ljig, Ub, Mininica, Osijek and Lajkovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65453	Anyone else want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to section 7th and 51st. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic to article 7 of Sections 3 and 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65454	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by analysing budgets from different angles and aspects, it is possible to criticise it and, in this sense, propose a different budget schedule from the draft budget law. This already seemed to be the case in principle, and here in that tone is today’s debate in particular. The SPS-JS Parliament Club expresses its support for the 2012 Budget Law, because we believe that it reflects the reality in which Serbia's economy faces difficulties in achieving revenue, new announcements of difficulties due to the current economic crisis, difficulties in countries that are our most significant partners. Of course, in that sense, both the necessary and possible maneuver to create economic policy through this budget. However, the SPS Parliament Club, analysing, first of all, Article 7. The bill, in terms of the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Vice-President who resigned, and considering that some 43.6 million dinars could be allocated more adequately, we suggested that some of the funds, around 3.6 million dinars, be defined for working with young and talented students, that these funds could be used best in this way and that these are children who represent Serbia's future and that any amount of funds identified by this plan, and that at the level of 18 million dinars, they are never enough and that they are never enough. With that in mind, this increase proposal would mean about 20% which is certainly not negligible. The remaining part of the funds, respecting what was planned for 2012, we proposed to focus on institutions of the student standard or on regular payment, diet and accommodation. What is planned in the following year, according to my information, is to significantly increase housing capacities in certain student homes, such as "Patris", in Belgrade, by 250, "Mike Mitrovica" by 160 and in Novi Sad by 300. It is easy to see this amount of funds covering this commitment by September 2012. We also consider it our wish to reroute this amount of 40 million dinars for these needs and thus ensure that these needs are serviced by the end of 2012. I hope that the Government will once again consider this proposal for our amendment and will accept these arguments seriously and eventually accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65455	Two minutes has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 7th Sections 3 and 52 of the amendment, the People’s Parliament of Hope Kolundji submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65456	Dear President, Mr. Cvetkovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 in section 3 of the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister. So it basically refers to the same division. Given the fact that the National Assembly held the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration Mr Bozidar Djelic on 15 December 2011, and that the reasons for the existence of the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, I felt that the funds provided for this budget for the cabinet of the Vice-President of the Government should be shifted seriously to the field of science, first of all bearing in mind that, thanks to Mr Djelic while he was Minister of Science, he was indeed perhaps, after a long, long time, for the first time, seriously drawing attention to the importance of science. For the first time, science is focused as an economic resource, and I think it would be a good idea that these funds provided for the work of vice-presidential cabinets, which ceases to exist, should be directed into the field of science. The amendment explains exactly what division the funds would be transferred to, but it is about the fact that the funds should be used to participate in a programme for small and medium-sized enterprises of the Western Balkans adopted on 7 December 2011, primarily bearing in mind that the general objective of the programme for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Western Balkans is to improve access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't think there is any dilemma that Serbia's primary natural resource and potential are in small and medium-sized enterprises, and that Serbia's participation in this forum and providing funds for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises would certainly contribute to the development of the economy. In that sense, I think there is a reason for the government, regardless of initially refusing this amendment, to reconsider this amendment and to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65457	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Sections 3 and 52. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic to article 7 of Sections 3 and 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to article 7 of Sections 3 and 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to reduce funds to the Office for the revision of the EU funds management system from 27,900,000 to 900,000 dinars to shift that money to more priority. In particular, to shift to the Ministry of Education and Science, more specifically to the student standard. I don't think this office should exist. The argument is no more than December 9th, when the European Council decided to reject Serbia's Repulica bid in the EU. The office is too high, as well as numerous other offices that exist in Serbia, which are numerous, unnecessary, consumer offices, as well as numerous funds and agencies that exist in the Republic of Serbia. Removing or reducing their number would save huge money, and hence the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget would be significantly lower. Also, the costs should be reduced, such as travel expenses. Excessive money is on specialised services, contracted services, grants to NGOs, etc. The senseless borrowing of the Republic of Serbia back several years has led to large budgets being allocated today to pay off interest, to pay off the main debt. If all of this had not been done, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia had kept more accounts, the deficit would have been significantly lower than what is today, of 140 billion dinars. This government is a wasteful, irrational waste of budget funds. He's having a hard time spending it on purpose. What's worse, spend it too much, more than what it has. I therefore propose this amendment that the funds be spent more rationally, that this 27 million dinar money be directed towards the Ministry of Education and Science, more specifically for the student standard, because Serbia's future is students and students, and that Serbia's future for the EU is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65459	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to section 7th and 26th. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65460	Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm surprised you didn't accept such a good amendment. Unlike Mrs. Kolundzija, who has filed a memorial amendment in honor of Bozidar Djelic, but we have not yet received an answer whether a passport has been taken to avoid escape from the country, my amendment is in favour of saving. Mr. Cvetkovic, I need to draw your attention to the fact that you've got a bunch of thugs in the government lying to you. Look at this division of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. In addition to budget funds, here are planned expenditures from additional revenues and all 1,000 dinars. Is this a voluntary contribution of 1,000 dinars to employees' salaries in this war crimes prosecutor's office? What I asked for with the amendment is this 422 - travel costs, that from 3,501,000 dinars, we bring it down to 501,000. Why? I don't know what the travel costs would be when three months ago, Mr Cvetkovic, you said -- co-operation with The Hague tribunal is over, it's an ugly past, our partners from Brussels move to see them keep their promises about that member status for the start of possible EU accession negotiations if it survives from January 15th this year and around 2389. What would be the cost of official travel? If, you mean the cards, it's this fee in nature, it's already secured. We need Vuckovic and this Bruno Vekaric. Bruno Vekaric can only go from court to court, but he's being sued. Nothing else. Why would they pay me private expenses to Bruno Vekaric? The time has come for Bruno Vekaric to file for what he did. Secondly, if you think these costs of official travel are necessary because of that organ trafficking, etc., Mr. Cvetkovic, do you see which disrespect you are expressing this prosecution? They'd like to pursue Thaci, and you and Thaci make agreements. Shame on them, and you're still looking for means of official travel here. Now, what did we want? We wanted these three million to shift to the right position, which is the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, although I must tell you, it is a great risk when we proposed, since Thaci's KIM minister is there, his name is Goran Bogdanovic. He's on the payroll at Taci and Tadic's. Mr Cvetkovic, Goran Bogdanovic was the first Serb to serve as agriculture minister in the government of Bajram Rexhepi. You authorized him to run KIM. Mr. Cvetkovic, what is the diabolical decision? Then you wonder what Boris Tadic did with KIM in the meantime. What were we looking for? To reroute it to the position of social security benefits from the budget, instead of 100 million to be 103 million. Why? To strengthen our institutions to KIM and put out those Ship's terrorists. They're parallel. That's to tell Mrs. Merkel. The institutions are parallel to those found in Pristina. Those located in Kosovo's Mitrovica and in Serb municipalities are the only legal institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the only state-owned institution in the area. Why is that? To prevent these people from becoming Kosovoers, they are Serbs, they have Serbian citizenship. You're forcing them to be Kosovars for 42 euros. Ask Bogdanovic. And his wife gets paid by Thaci. If the item is increased, then a material assumption is lost that Serbs under pressure accept citizenship to be Kosovoers. Mr. Cvetkovic, the bastards of your ranks have fooled you. You signed this regulation on the control of the crossing of the administrative line towards the AP KiM. The administrative line towards KIM is between Raška and Kralje and Kragujevac and the King and between Sopot and Kragujevac and Topola. They're all administrative lines. Catastrian municipalities are divided into municipalities. These are all administrative lines. It's all according to KIM. Look what the bastards did to you, Mr. Cvetkovic. Have you watched Article 19(3), paragraph 3) from five thousand to 50,000 dinars, will be punished for the violation of a natural person if he performs sailing, hunting, fishing, flying, moving or retaining a borderline. Where is this border line towards KIM, if it is forbidden and restricted by the Government Act? This is directly referred to in Article 13 of your regulation, where you are talking about the administrative line. In criminal terms, your heart worked, so you admitted that they were border lines. Mr. Cvetkovic, what will history say about you? What will historians write about you? For how much money you sold this orono – you let the bank get into the wheel and that when it came out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65461	We're discussing the budget in reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65462	Yeah, right. I'm preventing this idea from coming to life at Chanka's, so he can make an administrative line on the Danube. Whom the snake burns and the lizard fears. That's why I'm talking. I'm talking - step up, Mr. Cvetkovic. How do you plan to charge me a fine when I go to Kosovo Mitrovica? You did it here. If I go with another one, I'll pay the fine, if I go alone, I won't pay. And that's where the bastards tricked you when they wrote you this regulation. But this regulation has no legal basis. There is no legal basis, as there is no legal basis for stealing from Leposavic with a lead concentrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65463	Mr. Krasic, your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65464	My amendment to increase social contributions through the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Cvetkovic, what are those people gonna do when they have to go to the cemetery? Who do they pay taxes to? Who's gonna take that money? How did Thaci accept the reality of northern Kosovo for 10 years, and when he saw the money being swindled and swindled, then he remembered to ask those of your 22 EU friends, who have recognised independent Kosovo, to support him in his efforts to have full authority in the entire territory of his independent state? Where is your soul, Mr. Cvetkovic? How do you destroy the Serbian people? I support Mrs. Hope Kolundji. We need to discuss who's profiting from patriotism. Mrs Kolundžija, Goran Bogdanovic, Oliver Ivanovic, how much he gains on Serbian patriotism. Mrs. Kolundjia, so you made a Serbian list that participated in the Shiparian elections. They're profiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65465	Please don't address the MPs directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65466	Mr. Cvetkovic, do you know who made the alternative roads? Arrange with Gilas and Ruzic, "BM" is one or the other, Bambi Miljkovic. What are you talking about? This will be the Assembly after the next elections – Democrats in the franclames, with several percent and 80% radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65467	At Sections 12 and 52, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65468	My amendment refers to division 7 relating to the Fiscal Council and the already known services under contract. In fact, we have asked that the amount of 18 million be reduced to eight million and these 10 million to be transferred to the economic classification – educational assistance services, individual assistance to students of secondary education, etc. What is the essence of our plot? To reduce anything that can be reduced. We've been saying this for years, especially with the transfer agreement on this basis, given that in practical application, when it comes to practical application and then we see a number of abuses. The media are piny stuff, etc. It's crazy to point out all of this, but we're trying to explain to the people how harmful this government is to itself that it's socially responsible. Mr. Cvetkovic, there are only three ways out of the crisis. This is a proven economic theory in normal countries that apply those elements that have been proven in theory. These are: savings, employment and greater financial responsibility. You don't save, you don't hire, you don't work to boost fiscal responsibility. In a formal legal sense, we must reduce these assets and transfer them to another item. The bottom line is that we want to show you that you have to save because the whole world is in a fit for the coming crisis. This was also the case in the 2008-2010 crisis. You're saving, you're saving, but obviously there's no interest in saving on your part. When we talk about new employment, there is not one active measure of new employment in this budget, and you say it's the development budget. Do you invest in capital investments? It's not true, much less than it was in 2009, 2010 and 2011, you're reducing them. Is that when you compare everything that you're about 4% in total with what the budget deficit really is, but what does it mean when we have less employment than we have? In order to get us out of this crisis, we need to work harder and work harder. The fiscal responsibility is the third measure and the crisis prevention and exit activity. Do you do anything for it? We'll have tax laws, but what's the point? The point is, your tax administration is doing nothing. You're the most responsible person in the world. You're the head of that body, as finance minister. At this point, seven billion euros are unpaid realisation, on a variety of grounds – which are taxes, contributions, fees, fees and various other charges. Five billion of them owe the tycoons and you can't do anything to them. They put you in their pocket. They hit your mumps and do what they want. You must not publish that information. In every country of default, he's been convicted because we have to convict him, we have to squeeze him and charge him for what he owes, only in this country does it not seem. That's what you do with the poor, with the socially endangered, with the pensioners, with the disabled, but with the ones they have, you don't do it with them. Five billion euros owes 17 tycoons. They're at the top of the default scale. Why do you tolerate it? What is this socially responsible government that collects from social cases taxes, contributions, fees and taxes and does not charge tycoon? That is why elections are necessary, to leave, because such a government cannot exist in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65469	On Article 7th, 14 amendments were submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65470	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Cvetkovic, Amendment to Section 14, Ministry of Defence, Function 210, Economic Classification 464, Donation to Mandatory Social Insurance Organisations, in columns 9 and 11 we changed the amount of "500 million dinars" to the amount of "582 million dinars". These are the funds the Department of Defense is paying into the pension fund. As you know, from January 1st of next year, military pensioners will no longer be financed by the Ministry of Defence, but will be in the pension fund. In section 14, the Ministry of Defence, function 250, classification 422, travel costs, in column 9 and 11 the amount of: "82 million" is deleted. The amendment is not accepted because, as you say, it is proposed by the budget user and at its request and, as you say, if this were accepted, it would be impossible to carry out planned activities. Mr. Cvetkovic, when we suggested this, we were certainly also thinking about the functioning of the Army. At 210, economic classification 422, a billion and 570 million 972 thousand dinars from the budget and from their own incomes 46 million and 713 000 remain planned, totaling a billion 617 million and 685 thousand for travel, travel logs and other military needs. These 82 million assets certainly can't stop the military from functioning. But what did we want with this 82 million? We wanted them to head towards the pension fund. Although these funds are small and almost nothing could change the situation with military pensioners, but if you listened to my colleagues from the SRS, you could notice that several amendments were just directed in this direction, to increase funds right in the pension fund. And this, Mr. Cvetkovic, all because of the work of your government and the government that worked before you. Even at a time of one of the defence ministers that everyone here remembers, Mr Davinic, has created a debt to military pensioners of four billion and 512 million dinars. The latest Military Act, Article 193 of Position 2 has been regulated that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will adopt an act within 90 days of the date of entry into force to regulate the dynamics and method of reconciliation of obligations towards military pensioners. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, once answered one parliamentary question where you said it would be regulated. In the 2012 budget, Mr. Cvetkovic, that's gone. What's going on? By the end of June 2011, military pensioners had to file 31 thousand lawsuits. There's 14,000 more waiting to file that lawsuit. The same period solved 16 thousand lawsuits, and 5,882 were forced to charge and spent a billion 504 million 888 thousand, and yet on the basis of those still to be paid around 11 billion. Mr. Cvetkovic, why did one category of pensioners, one category of the most honorable people in this country, who fulfilled all their obligations to this country when they needed to, make them sue the state? Because only in court can they exercise their rights. Your government and you, Mr. Cvetkovic, don't respect the laws you've passed here. This doesn't end when it comes to military pensioners. Since 1 January 2008, another debt, also under Article 193. The Military Act, but under heading 1 - harmonising military pensions. It was supposed to be done from that day on, under a law governing pension and disability insurance. Since 25 January 2008, the PIO Fund has decided on an extraordinary pension adjustment of 11.6% and has been done for all other categories of pensioners except for military pensioners, who have been with the fund since. Not physically, it wasn't paid there, but decisions were supposed to be made in that fund. See, that lasts until today. All pensioners will have to sue the state again. I am taking the opportunity because you are here and because today the majority of pensioners, especially military pensioners, are certainly following this session, to answer how and how will you regulate one such debt when nothing in the 2012 budget is practically foreseen on this issue? And what is it, Mr. Cvetkovic, the government that drives those most honorable people in this country, who have left their property, have done everything that some country's leadership has asked of them, come here to Serbia and become homeless soldiers? One of them executed, or whole family, several weeks ago, a practical family suicide by jumping out of a military facility. As much as the defence ministry and the defence minister are trying to wash off this case, all the military homeless know who's responsible and who's been moving military pensioners out of military facilities since February this year with the military police. I expect, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you will answer me and the military pensioners how you intend to carry out this obligation. Or should we wait for a new, more responsible, more honorable government to treat that category of people more honestly? In any case, the people who love this country the most, you make them exercise their legal rights in court. Or, simply, do you expect everyone to die? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65471	On Article 7 of Sections 15 and 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The time remaining for the parliamentary group is one minute and 10 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This budget seems to have been made by a devil's lawyer. This isn't a developmental one, this is a devastation budget. This is a budget she couldn't bear, as far as the administration and the government and the costs are concerned, no rich European state. I suggested that this famous monster ministry of economics and regional development, which robbed Serbia of non-intentional spending, walking through tourism, promising citizens hills and valleys, is all in fact the intention of buying voters in the next election. I'm staying with the proposed amendment, and I'm asking that the Home Office, which is really in a very difficult situation, that the police have no equipment, clothes, shoes, and other BK kits, is that they don't have enough vehicles and technical equipment and we need to deal with terrorism, organized crime, mangoes and thieves. As you can see, the government in the area is not taking care of the police at all, and it is necessary to raise salaries to police officers, because with justification they are insolent, wages are small, and they are kept by the government and its ministers. Mr. Minister, as far as I'm concerned, as MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, given the parallel state in Europe, I would have left only three cars, and I would have taken the rest of the cars away from the ministers, and no minister would have security. As far as I'm concerned, no security minister would have today until these problems were solved, and they don't need them. Let few ministers take a ride on city transport, not to spend billions of people's taxpayers' taxpayers. That's what you should be proud of, Mr. Minister, what should be done. You have, Mr. Minister, during your government record and you've historically achieved because you've entrusted Serbia and its people and its citizens with the fact that in the future, if there's any more churches to live on credit, there's no others. You owe the country from nine to 33 billion euros. You have parallel institutions, the number of ministries, the number of agencies, the number of administrations, the number of funds, the number of directors, and not to mention. We had five foreign ministers -- Vuk Jeremic, Bozidar Djelic, Mrs Delevic, Boris Stefanovic and Boris Tadic. They are all resolutions, when you look at it, foreign ministers and all spend money from the budget. For health care, there's no talking, there's no talking, there's no talking about the special services of billions... (President: Please finish your thought.) I'm sorry. You could buy 10,000 tractors of domestic production for the special services provided for by many billions and thus give to individual agricultural producers to plow this rich Serbian country and to produce both for themselves and for the country and for export. And why don't you predict these costs, Mr. Minister, regarding the elemental disasters in Vojvodina? For example, in Pancevo four villages, Ivanovo, they suffered three billion, and the dinars were not given to citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65473	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic submitted amendments to Sections 15 and 20 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. Section 17 of the amendments was submitted by the Government. There's no answer for word. To Article 7. Split of the 17 amendments was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65474	Mr. Cvetkovic, you were elected prime minister in 2008 after the fraud of the century, which is the car industry "Fiyat" in Kragujevac and this amendment I asked that a billion and 837 million dinars that you provided for to finance the private company of the Italian family of Angels, reroute to pensioners, poor pensioners in Serbia, because it is obvious that after four years we, as citizens of Serbia, citizens of Kragujevac, are unable to know what kind of contract you signed with the "Fiyat" and I stand behind it as an absolute fraud, given that Boris Tadic, together with Bozidar Djelic, will say that this new company and the new model to be exported to a wide Russian market. However, Russian Federation Prime Minister Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin said here in the Assembly on March 19th that it is absolutely out of the question and not possible because it is an original Italian product, and in the meantime, not only did you fire more than 1,500 workers, but those who remained, who had passed the initial test to stay in the new Fiat company, daily receive pressures, blackmails and layoffs. A woman who has been a machine engineer for 17 years, she gave an interview with our magazine "Great Serbia", which has received a solution to work on new cars and products, was fired and it was DHL by mail, a single mother. That's how those you finance behave. Mr. Cvetkovic, since Boris Tadic did not come here, and he could, as you should have come with all the ministers from the government, but you are irresponsible to the government, because by such silence you defend this disastrous budget, say then – how come you have the right to declare... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... If only you had the exclusive right to know what the new model looks like...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65475	Thank you. To Article 7. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who has a word. Here you go, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65476	The purpose of this amendment is, as well as the purpose of all our performances, to reduce unnecessary costs in the budget and focus on social giving. You will also see after my amendment, Mr. Pai Momchilov will also explain the same importance of directing to social benefits, to health care. You saw Miss Natasa Jovanovic exactly where she said she needed to reroute those funds that we're literally rerouting to the Anelli family, one of the richest families in Europe, to finance something that she didn't make in three years. My amendment concerns the World Bank and the representation of Serbia in that organisation, in an organisation that has recognised so-called "the Bank of Serbia". the state of Kosovo. We believe that, above all, for these political and economic reasons, Serbia is not a place in the World Bank. She doesn't belong in an organization that's confessed to the so-called. Kosovo and you must have that in mind both when you are talking and when you listen to the IMF and Mr Mark Allen who destroyed Poland and Hungary, who now have several hundred billion external debt, I think you should consider these political and not just economic reasons. We also think that membership in the World Bank is bad because, you saw, you certainly know that a World Bank representative in Serbia has presented a kind of programme for Serbia, where it is said to reduce subsidies, that it is necessary to reduce the issue of health, education, education, that is not good. They let them apply it there in the west, and they don't apply it there either, because you certainly know, unlike those of you who said yesterday that you need to reduce customs as much as possible, there's now a new protectionism, there's a nationalization of banks. You saw, England's biggest bank, Royal Bank of Scotland, is a nationalized, fact-finding Hipo Alpha Adria, which gives the biggest interest here, they're just doing the opposite of you, or Serbia has become the only base of neoliberal concept he's sold, and you know for a fact that the head of federal reserves is the former, Mr. Grisman, said it was the wrong concept. I can't understand that you, as a doctor of economic science, are defending something that has failed in the West and is not being applied. In that sense, we suggest again, it is our well-intentioned criticism, to look at what the Hungarians are doing, what the Slovaks, Spain, and even France are doing, and to simply introduce a crisis tax on extra profits from banks, and so you will fill the budget, so you will focus resources on health, welfare, education and our institutions at KIM. This is the purpose of our amendment, the purpose of the previous amendment, of Mr Momchilov's next amendment and of all our amendments, because we are the only party that is socially responsible in this country and these amendments show this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65477	To Article 7. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65478	I must admit that I always look at the figures in both the local self-government budgets and this 2012 IMF budget. services per contract, or specialised services. When we get what we're offered, this time there's a truly scandalous figure of about 50 billion dinars, how many taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would need, based on such distribution within the budget, to allocate for various services under contract and specialised services, which we really think is inadmissible. The amendment is also only one in a series of those who re-route those funds in the form of donations to compulsory social insurance organisations. In particular, it is a frantic fact that at the moment we live in such a complex socio-economic position, with facts that are truly devastating, and with regard to people living on the edge of their existence, those who have lost their jobs, to the fact that the total public debt of Serbia has reached some peak, etc., we are coming to a situation that the government, or the IMF that is the creator of this budget, is proposing funds that are directed to services under contract and that is, no less, than intended to pay the services to agencies that assess the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia. What is the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia, we have warned you many times already, so this is really a waste of money in the well, when it comes to this purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65479	The word is by Mr. Dejan Mirovic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65480	I think this is an extraordinary amendment and that you should accept this amendment, because you know for a fact that these credit rating agencies have been saying that these mortgage houses in America were extraordinary, that they had the best possible rating, and you must know with "Fani May" and "Fredi Mac" what happened. The same thing happened in Greece. Therefore, they cannot be trusted and Mr Jeremic is absolutely right when he thinks that money should not be wasted for such a thing, and we see even the EU, which is on the verge of economic decay, is thinking of creating its own credit rating agencies. In that sense, we think this is a modern, appropriate and more than a good amendment to Mr. Jeremic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65481	At Sections 17 and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 17 and 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In Article 7 of Sections 17 and 37, the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 17 and 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Dr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65482	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, what were we looking for by amendment? We asked the Ministry of Finance to confiscate the 475 million that are scheduled for one of the 130 agencies, which we consider absolutely unnecessary and that the state, with its administrative apparatus, which it now has, can also perform these functions that you have foreseen with the budget. We asked for these funds to be redistributed into the health ministry programmes for the Tolak Institute, and we proposed for some items that should improve workers' health. That's what we suggested. I can't help but draw the public's attention that this budget is precisely in the function of further degradation of our people's health and survival. Why do I think this amendment should be accepted? First, the state of our people's health from last year at -4.5 fell, i.e. a rise to -4.8. There are 33,000 fewer in Serbia every year. For what? Not only because of the white plague, but because of the diseases that die of it prematurely and needlessly. It's the biggest responsibility you have to take and you have to face, and this government didn't do it. On the other hand, if you're looking at the condition of cancer, 33,000 are every year cancer patients, most of all in Europe, 22,000 die and, most of all, die without treatment, 13 radiation machines are insufficient to treat cancer. What did you expect with the budget? You've predicted four machines that you're going to raise, and it takes another ten. So you're not doing anything to ensure the treatment of Serbian citizens who are dying today. On the other hand, the balance in the funds -- there's no money.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65483	Mr. Dejan Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65484	The Serbian Radical Party and I, as an authorised representative, consider this to be an extraordinary amendment and that this is an amendment that shows the essence of your intentions in the future, will you direct, will you at the same time show as finance minister a kind of social responsibility and channel funds towards health care. You've seen how brilliantly Dr. Paja Momchilo explained it. We simply find it inadmissible, that is also in Article 1 of this budget, that health issues are being reduced in fact, because you know for a fact that you have frozen the publications for the Republic Health Insurance Office. Of course, we don't think anything good about Mr. Vuksanovic, who is at the head of that fund, and we think he's doing more than bad work and saving on those who need the most money, on children, for health care. Simply, we are principled to give more publishing for health care. In that sense, Dr. Paja Momchilov made a very good remark and a good amendment to be accepted. As far as restitution is concerned, it's invaluable and it's socially irresponsible. That is why we believe that this item should be abolished at your ministry, because we simply do not see the purpose of you borrowing two billion euros for restitution at the time our external debt totaled 24 billion euros and at the time when the man who has nothing to do with the SRS, Mr Mladjan Kovacevic, presented the fact that only interest will go to 1.7 billion dollars each year. Therefore, stay away from these megalomaniac projects, restitutions, the EU, etc. rather than go to health care, to social services, to education and to those who need it the most, to our KIM institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65485	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic to Sections 17 and 51. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, as Serbia's largest patriotic party, is also a socially responsible party. The purpose of this amendment is that the funds in the Ministry of Finance, which relate to travel costs, are directed to the Ministry of Health, i.e. 460, which refers to the awards of employees and others in health care. The health situation is catastrophic. This shows all the parameters we always talk about in this congregation and the Health Committee. In particular, the adoption of this new amendment and the addition of the Health Protection Act has led to the degradation of the health care workers' position. Health care professionals are yet to be discriminated against in another way. They're the only ones in all public services assigned to work as if they're working in a strip factory. In this way it is necessary to assign these funds to these healthcare professionals in a way to stimulate, because the quality of their work will be much better. It is not important for health care professionals to have a quota that they must fill during the day in primary health care, but it is also important that this work be of great quality. On the other hand, some jubilee awards are provided for some healthcare workers within the framework of this budget. However, an entire sector related to dentistry has been left out, so these healthcare workers are in some way discriminated against. Also health workers who are employed in the city health services.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65487	I thank Mrs. Paunović-Milosavljevic. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65488	Of course, this amendment is excellent and should be accepted, because simply if you are already looking at Britain, America and countries where these IMF managers come from, then you don't need to apply double standards, but you need to apply standards like they do. You'll admit they're richer than us. Here is the data that Americans single out 25% of their GDP for health care, which is twice as much as Serbia, and the English single out about 18% of the health budget again, more than in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, you should look up to them, not to listen to the twice-arshines of the IMF. Also, here we have a survey of citizens who believe that there is a need to increase health issues to at least 10%, and to reduce issues for the Ministry of Finance, whose head you are on. Not one percent is enough and we agree. We are the only party who listens to the voice of the people, who thinks that social publications for health care are excellent and that it is necessary to channel funds, not European integration, not something that has failed and that simply and there, they do not know what they are going to do with the euro, not something that means failure in economic, political and every sense for our country. In that sense, we listen to the voice of the people and these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65489	National MP Mladen Grujic submitted amendments to Sections 17 and 52. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to Sections 17 and 53 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Section 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65490	Dear fellow Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the SNS tried to influence its amendments to the Budget Law, i.e. to correct the draft budget in the interests of Serbian citizens. The draft budget has not led to major disagreements within the ruling parties, as everyone is pleased with the proposed budget. All parties in power have received what they asked for with this budget, and everyone is pleased. This budget proposal is not realistic, nor rational, nor thrifty, nor least crisis. For this budget, we can say that this is a budget of bankruptcy and pre-election. This budget has calmed and satisfied all parties in power, so that they can successfully start the election campaign, and after the elections, as the Prime Minister said, the new government will rebalance the budget and make a budget for the benefit of Serbian citizens. When we adopt the budget, we listen to the government's promises of development, the real budget, the rational budget, about the budget that will provide for Serbia's economic growth, we hear about how Serbia, regardless of the crisis in the environment, will move ahead with economic growth, how foreign investors are racing who will invest more in Serbia's development, and when it comes to the end of the year, Serbia is in a fat minus and debt to the soul, and then the government wonders whether there will be money for pensions, whether there will be money for students, for health, etc. The government was only successful in establishing agencies, offices, administrations, directorates, etc. My amendment refers to Section 7, Section 18, Chapter 18.2, Function 360, which is the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets. In my amendment, I suggest that this directive be deleted. Why? Because the Republic of Serbia already has an Property Directorate that could also do these jobs, whose activity is largely consistent with the work of the Directorate I have proposed to delete. In these four years, the government has shown and proved that it cannot run the country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65491	The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Sections 18 and 51 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mrs Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65492	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the SRS is clear: representatives of the current government have spent too much money from the Republic of Serbia's budget on the EU's convergence process. In the coming year, we believe that there is no need to make travel expenses to alleged European friends. We had the opportunity to hear from the authorised representative of Mr Mirovic's SRS that our amendments, of course, are this, that their purpose is to channel the money available to the purposes that will contribute to improving the quality of life of those living in Serbia, for which Serbia has no alternative and which through paying taxes full of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment provides for a reduction of the costs mentioned and, on the other hand, we see the need for more money to be allocated to the Ministry of Health, and for a concrete programme relating to the needs of the mother and child. We well remember all the recent discussions with the Minister of Health, when amending the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act. The SRS then tried to influence its amendments to the law in the interests of children and their parents. And then I gave specific information about all the troubles and problems parents whose children are being treated for a long time, and when they turn 15, what problems they have when they lose their right to a date. That's one small part of the problem. At the time, there was no hearing of our amendments. We can now conclude that again our proposals do not reach the authority that adheres to its intentions on EU membership bid and spends money in such a firm manner. In front of one more important thing, this government closes its eyes, and the Ministry of Finance is particularly responsible. From year to year, the state of health of people who defended Serbia from NATO aggression to KIM is getting worse. Many are on the verge of poverty and cannot be treated by many hidden consequences of war...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65493	Thank you, Mrs Dimitrijevic. Time's up. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65494	Why do we insist so much on health care? We think it's more than an important category in the budget, and we think that you've neglected giving for health care. It's not just our arguments, it's also Mr. Vuksanovic, whom we consider to be a catastrophic fund manager and act like he runs a car company and not something that is directly separated for health, and he admits that there is a shortage in the 20 billion dinar fund. On the other hand, the minister says 32 billion deficits are in the RZZO budget. It's a disaster. You pay the World Bank, you pay the Office for European Integration. It's simply an incredible carelessness, one species, to say genocide. Also there are, this is what Dr. Paja Momchilov said on the Health Committee, which may be the best committee in the Assembly, that Serbia should adapt to the Millennium goals, to reduce mother mortality. However, it is increasing from 2009 to 2010. That's terrible, that's amazing, and there's no excuse for that. The third data that is more than disturbing to us and which has been brought back to the Health Committee, led by Dr Paja Momchilov, is that Serbia needs to adapt to the EU and make the average life span 79 years. Do you know how old we are – 71 years old. It's a disaster. You do not have the right to reduce the expenditure on health care, but rather to increase it to a continuous reduction in expenditure on European integration and to reduce all expenditure on services under contracts for the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the financing of one of the richest families in Europe, the Aneli family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65495	On article 7, the 19th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. The word is Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65496	With this amendment, we intended to increase the total resources in the position of the Agrarian Payments Agency, because we believe that subsidies to agricultural producers in the right sense are being allocated in this position. We believe that the amount planned in the amount of 16.815,000 000 is absolutely insufficient to cover all the obligations that the Ministry of Agriculture will have during 2012 on the basis of payment of subsidies, and that part that will be transferred from this year to next year, and for paying and serviceing all those obligations and subsidies and premiums that are necessary to implement or pay in 2012. I would just like to remind, above all, the agricultural producers, that, according to the reasons given by the ministry and which is in this draft budget law, it is clear that for the next year from the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, as unmistakable obligations towards agricultural producers, around 7.5 billion dinars will be transferred, and that figure will burden these 16.815,000 at the position of the Agrarian Payments Agency. I'd like to remind you that there will be an unmistakable commitment to agricultural producers who handle more than 30 ha, so up to 100 ha. That's the roughest amount. That part that's unmistakable to that number up to 30 ha, so the roughest amount is about six billion that will be transferred next year on that basis. Then, the last milk quarter is also worth about 700 million dinars, according to what the ministry has given, and yet unmistakable obligations for genetic improvement in livestock farming, for insurance of agricultural production, for market incentives, for the structures of incentives, means, the rise of long-term plantations and for the development and improvement of organic agricultural production is still around 700 million dinars. So this is some 7.5 billion dinars, which are to be reconciled in 2012 and for this reason we also said in principle that what is foreseen as budget funds in section 19 for agricultural purposes, is completely insufficient because these funds are almost identical to the assets in 2011, and the subsidies provided for as their own funds by the Ministry of Agriculture are completely unrealistically planned and simply cannot be realised. Because if, in all these years, that amount was at some 10-11 billion dinars, and in 2012, it was made out of its own resources from the Ministry of Agriculture's own income of 26 billion dinars. It's simply not realistic and not feasible and it's just a distraction of agricultural producers. From this we thought that you would have understanding and that if you didn't have the strength on your own, but on the proposal of one opposition party to accept an increase in this particular position within the agrarian budget from which, in the end of that agency they are paying off, and you know very well about subsidies and premiums to farmers, and that they will accept you, means increasing that amount. Unfortunately, you have not done so, and therefore, above all, you have directly endangered agricultural producers, and therefore I want to call them, and to inform them that only by changing this authority by coming to the head of a party such as the SNS, which puts agriculture in a strategic position, the strategic branch of the economic development of Serbia, we will rebalance the budget what we have proposed through this amendment to provide to our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65497	On page 7, the 19th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry to have only two minutes, but I can speak to you for twenty hours, how much money you've given for, in section 19, on agriculture. What else to say, when the SRS has been here since 2001, the nonstop has been repeating 5% of the agricultural budget, but it doesn't seem to mean anything to you. The only branch of the economy that brings surpluses to this budget is agriculture. Four to 4.5 billion dollars, and you've managed to, since 2011, set 2.5% to 2.3%. Here's what you did for the fallen Serbian agrarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65499	The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic to section 7th and 20th. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 19 and 21 of the Correction Amendment was submitted by MP Marija Bulgarčić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic to article 7 of Sections 19 and 39 of the amendment. The word has an MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this 961-page book called the Republic of Serbia's budget is primarily evidence of the irresponsible and irresponsible policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One missed policy that had its complete capitulation and defeat on December 9th. The crazy policy that European politics has no alternative has been completely ruined. This budget envisions, above all, that our citizens be deceived, that you try to fool the citizens of the Republic of Serbia once more and use taxpayers' and Serbian citizens' money in a pre-election campaign. The Serbian Radical Party in continuity insists that the government of the Republic of Serbia simply shows more understanding for our agrarian. We have an opportunity to see by this draft budget that, Mr. Cvetkovic, you are absolutely not interested. The stories you have served us and which the current minister, following this cheap makeup from the fleas and reconstruction of the government, Dusan Petrovic brings here, will be invested very much in our agrarian. Today we're witnessing that there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. You've shown, in a fictional fashion, that there's going to be a little more money in agriculture, and in fact, it's going to be less than in 2011. Because the obligations you have from the previous period must be fulfilled by 31 January by the regulation you have committed. Our citizens must be aware that this government of the Republic of Serbia has simply exhausted all credits, that this budget has been drawn up by any political party sitting in the republic of parliament today, so far to the SRS there would be absolutely no difference. There is no difference, Mr. Cvetkovic, between you and DS, nor would there be a difference between these traitors and their candidate for prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65501	Thank you, Mr. Flea. This would end the day's work, and on the basis of article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue at 4:00. The first will be given the word of the amendment to Article 7 Mr Veroljub Arsic
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65502	We can keep working. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Acimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2012 in Article 7. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources and the Agency for Agricultural Payments, where two billion dinars are passed on by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the NIP funding of 2 billion dinars should be reduced at the position of the Ministry of Economy, i.e. for the implementation of the National Investment Plan. We believe that the funds in this position should be channelled towards the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. agricultural subsidies through the Agency for Agricultural Payments. The reason why unnecessary funds are in the NIP is the way tenders are conducted, as are other conditions when infrastructure projects are involved. The first is the conditions of the EU and the European Investment Bank, which favours its construction firms with the way and conditions of tenders that are acceptable only to them. Examples are the Alpina, the Austrian firm that only had the conditions that the tender prescribed. It is more than a billion euros worth of work over the course of one year, so our start-up companies were discriminated against. Let's remind ourselves that the Bridge was a former builder of the Beška Bridge, and it had no opportunity to reconstruct the bridge because of the catches that existed in the tender or the company "Energoproject", also a Serbian firm, because of the same conditions, had the same fate, but because of that "Strabac", the Austrian firm and the long European firms received a large part of the big business in Serbia. The basic reasons for all of this were the conditions of the EU and their banks to download the money they owe us, also large sums of money through companies that come from their environments. Our domestic companies had the opportunity to be subcontractors, to get little bits of so-called cake. As a result, we believe that two billion dinars should be transferred to warfare, milk production, livestock production, vineyarding and other areas that belong to the Agency for Agricultural Payments. Also, it should not be forgotten that agriculture, in addition to the difficult economic situation... (President: You have no more time, finish your sentence. ) Also, it should not be forgotten that agriculture, in addition to the difficult economic situation in which it has experienced both natural and elemental disasters that are largely not compensated for farmers in Machva, Jadra and other parts of Serbia. This financial assistance would greatly help endangered households to launch a production that has largely been destroyed. We believe that particular attention should be paid to the number of cows that today owns Serbia, to subsidise June or calves with 70 euros per throat. The main reasons for this are exports of calves up to 200 kg, which poses quite a threat to the complete beef chain. I believe that exports of live cattle should be immediately prohibited and exports should be carried out exclusively compensated cerek, i.e. slaughtered at least up to 500 kg live scale or processed product. This country would help Serbia profit from the producer, processor and exporter. One blow would kill three flies. (President: You've really gone too far.) I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65504	On Article 7th, the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is one of the last sessions of the Serbian Parliament in this assembly, perhaps the last, probably the last budget this call will bring, only that there will be no rebalancing in January. Many have raced over the past few days to say some of their objections to the government's work, although they themselves participated in the government. I guess because of one pressure from the opposition, when it comes to the agencies, the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and the President of the DS, Boris Tadic, came up with an idea that maybe an agency should be set up. Once upon a time, I made a joke a few years ago and I said that it was necessary to set up an agency agency, that you didn't have to do it with every law to solve and indeed at one point the ruling majority took one joke quite seriously and set up an agency. Now, since the agencies are no longer in fashion, we need to do something else, so someone remembered to open offices instead of the agency. In this budget law, we have a press co-operation office with the government of the Republic of Serbia of 62 million, so we have a staff management service of 89 million. By the way, we also have a joint office, so she could have done it, not made management. Then we have an interesting part that needs to spend 354 million dinars, the office for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, the largest item -- buildings and construction buildings. So, to provide them with a business space, then that famous office to co-operate with civil society. Last year, when we adopted the 2011 budget, their division seemed to me to be two or four million. Today it's 34, and out of that 34, most of it goes to salaries and donations to NGOs. Then we have the Office of the National Council for decentralisation of the Republic of 34 million, then the Office for Regulatory Reform and Analysis of the Effect of Regulations, so we have the Office for Auditing the System of Management of EU Funds, and then the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiation Process, then the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Property, as if we don't have a Republic Property Directorate. It's part of the Department of Justice, etc. Why did I list it all? Let me show that in the first place, in the revenue side, which we're going to talk about one more time, there has to be funding for all these offices and administrations and for one law on public procurement, which is not right, because the government is unable to provide budget costs from real sources. So this is why we have at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development under the term – specialized services, the funds of this 508.190.480 dinar are intended for the Agency for Foreign Investment and Promotion of Exports. The agency was established and at least in its work description it provided the following notices, that it helps the domestic economy to export and place its products and will also charge a modest fee for each export business. If funds are provided from the budget for her work, it means she didn't do anything and it needs to be abolished. I don't even know what foreign investment they've provided here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Did a foreign private investor come to invest something in Serbia, to open at least one single factory for the processing of agricultural products, instead of opening "Beneton" and "Fiat", and someone else will later on. Then we have a privatisation agency of 210,000,000 dinars. There is a combination in Branic County that was the sixth in Serbia, the tenth in Yugoslavia. That combination no longer exists, nor does the letter "k" of that combination exist. The only good part is credited to the Privatisation Agency with one good part and the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers and the management of bankruptcy and trade courts. But this is the result of an industrial zone that is 18 kilometers from the highway, the administrative headquarters of eight municipalities no longer has one single agricultural processing capacity. I don't know what we need from the Privatisation Agency if she hasn't been able to provide partners who can make investments, and we don't even know what the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency is going to do for us, because she didn't do anything to get new partners from abroad. As a special item, the Agency for Economic Registers, the most privileged body of state administration in Serbia. Even the National Bank is changing its regulation that any paper you need from the Agency would have to pay compensation for it and for the service it performs for you, and allegedly the Agency for Business Registers is designed to improve that area to deliver a public register of legal and natural persons who perform certain activities, and then, apart from the public register, every company or natural person must every three or four months search and demand so on. A copy from the APR, so he can exercise his right, even in some business bank. I don't see why we'd even have to reward them from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65506	On article 7, split 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65507	Mr Cvetkovic, you and your government not only were not responsible, but you did not learn to save, so we tried in one part, and during the morning debate, fellow MPs from the SRS showed you places where it could and had to be saved and the places where it should be directed, in such a way saved money. Here's another place, it's the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and it's about the funds that you've provided for the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. The agency for foreign investment of domestic money, the money of Serbian citizens for the account of some foreign companies, is the best example for you "Fiat". We predicted here that with 508,190,480 for that agency 58,000,000 are planned and 450,000 are saved. The privatisation agency, it's just a special story. That's supposed to be 305,000 thousand. We think these activities can be done with 55,000, save 250. In total, 700,000 are saved and we propose to focus on liquidity in the economy, but the question is whether it will be a good solution. If we bear in mind that at one point through the Development Fund, over 100,000 euros have been directed into the pillars of culture, with interest that Serbian citizens could not bear, 2.5%, then the question arises – how do you abuse them, those places that should not at all? You sold out everything Serbian to KIM. We're being taught by the World Bank and the IMF. The International Monetary Fund is killing Serbian banks. There's now a hell of a plan to sell the Commercial Bank. The Vojvodina embassy exists in Brussels. JAT flies to the age instead of flying through the air. You put the money out of the citizens at the Fiat, and someone else takes the profits from there. Mladjan Dinkic's nonsense has no measure and no limit. The aid for Delta Agrar was 11,000,000 euros through four credit arrangements. If only they had told you, Mr. Cvetkovic, when they chose you, or if they had woken you up, the effects of this government would probably have been something better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65508	On page 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65509	We have requested the removal of the classification of 410, 451 and 454, which is the means to subsidise public non-financial enterprises and organisations and subsidies to private enterprises. I'm only going to look back at this 10 billion 450 million for the Fiat. Given that you've written contract dates and a number of acts on page 549 in your explanation, but not a single figure that the government has invested in the Fiat so far, nor what the effects of that are, I owe them the public notice that you should have given them. Since the signing of the contract, which was supposed to put "Fiat" cars as a "Fiat Group" from Turin amounting to 700m euros, and the state of Serbia amounting to 200m euros and 50m euros through the tax relief "Fiat" and that Serbia has a 33% share in action, and the "Fiat" 67, the matter has come down in practice to the following -- the "Fiat" has been invested according to our findings, i.e. by registration in the Agency for Business Registers 99.4m, and the remaining 600m euros will appear to be secured from credit sources. This was not known at the time, and the fact that the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia was also given on 2 June 2011, where we became guarantors for the loan of the European Investment Bank to 200m euros. We didn't know that "Fiat Cars Serbia" would be a credit burden, and we didn't know that before the production of the new model began. This will greatly affect the decrease in profit "Fiat Cars Serbia", if at all one moment comes to that, and the reduction of dividends that should reach Serbia's budget based on 33%. The terms, which no investor has received anywhere in the world, have been given "Fiat". In addition to the donated plants of the flag of Fiat, 67 hectares of land, with the obligation to provide them with an additional 70, state subsidies were given to newly employed workers. Subsidies in the sale of car "Punto" changed terms of the contract on further investment, and the public has no idea, and you continue to plan 10 billion and 450m euros in the budget. Well, if there was justice and some order in this country, only "Fiat" would cost you the calling of new elections and the lack of rights ever to announce anything in public as a promise of credibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65510	On Article 7 of the 20th Amendment, MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 7, split 20. The regional development ministry functions as 410th economic classification of the 451st subsidy to public non-financial enterprises and organisations of column nine and eleven, amounting to two billion and 970 million, we propose that that amount be seven billion and 970 million. In part of the function of 410th economic classification of 621th purchase of domestic financial assets, these are columns nine and eleven, with five and a half billion, we want to reduce that to 500 million. So these are the five billion we want to focus on these companies and organisations that need to improve Serbia's standard. You have responded as you have responded to most of these amendments, that you do not accept, and your reasons are not very good, as neither is the budget of quality. You see for yourself from all presentations of the MPs that this budget does not drink water with citizens, except the government that has deceived everyone, so this budget will fool the citizens. Your loans that you foresee, and regarding this amendment, are known to citizens and private businesses and businesses in the privatisation process, and they are negative, as the IMF dictates all financial and banking transactions in Serbia. The loan approval programme through the Development Fund has been marked by irregularities for the last two years, such as the granting of loans to Delta agrarian, the composition of the Management Board of the Development and Management Fund, which has been selected under political criteria, do not guarantee that these irregularities will not be repeated in 2012. That's why five billion assets need to be rerouted and always controlled, a non-politically motivated way of subsidising.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65512	Time. Please bring the end. On Article 7th of the 20th Amendment, MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65513	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by amendment to Article 7 of Section 20 relating to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development of the SRS parliamentary group, requested that the 410th Economic Qualification 421th Permanent Costs be removed from 20 million dinars and that the same funds be transferred to the economic classification of 451st Subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. The funds of which we have been rerouting are otherwise spent, among other things, on financing the Office for Equal Regional Development by municipalities in the interior, which are for nothing but the employment of party listeners. These same offices serve only for current employment, for example, at Corridor 10, seeking DS, SPS or the URS membership cards and, of course, 20 more safe votes in the next election, which is being paid by Serbian citizens. The SRS believes that the irregular economic policy of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has led to a general decline in living standards, price rises and a rise in the cost of life, as well as a huge external trade deficit. That is why it is necessary for the ministry to cut costs, even if it helps the Serbian economy in part. The amount of 20 million may not be large, but we have suggested that the funds be channelled towards Serbian companies in a difficult situation due to the neo-oliberal policy of the economy ministry that favours businesses only from the EU. The draft budget stressed that the means of this appraisal are intended to regulate relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Beneton Group, so please, and Serbian businessmen would do much better if they were to receive 10,000 euros as foreigners for each employee. Several times during today's debates, colleagues from the SRS spoke about the difficult life of municipalities of southern and eastern Serbia. Do you know what 20 million dinars would mean for one little white palanca?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65514	Time. Thank you. On Article 7th, the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65515	Mr Cvetkovic, this economic classification really shows how well Mladjan Dinkic is listed in the IMF that participated in writing this budget. Do you know what this economic classification refers to? For travel, for seminars, for whiskey, for gondolas, for sparring with Serbia and making false promises of 1000 euros, and all of this to promote a political party. A hundred million dinars or a million euros are foreseen, Mr Cvetkovic, for these purposes. I suggest that instead of the brook of whiskey, as the one said - with cold or without ice, instead of false seminars, instead of a senseless sparring with Serbia, etc., direct these funds to those who really need them, and there are many in Serbia today. I asked to remove 90 million dinars from this classification and focus on non-financial public enterprises and organizations. Accept this amendment, Mr Cvetkovic, and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, along with his family, will pay out of his pocket his whiskey, his travels, his false promises and his campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65516	Member of the 7th Division of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted to Article 7 by MP Velimir Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, paragraphs 22 and 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65517	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Slavica, will you tell me how much time I have? If I don't have time, ask the Prime Minister to give the lady some time from his time to explain the amendment a little bit better. Basically, after this budget, I don't think you'll have time to be here at all. In this difficult time, Mr. Minister or Prime Minister, for Serbia, when all Serbian citizens are economically at risk, and especially disabled, your Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has singled out about 13 million dinars for people with disabilities, which, in the SRS' view, is very little, but that is why you gave donations to non-governmental organisations of 25 million dinars, and it is well known and we all know that some NGOs are directly in favour of independent Kosovo, which also affects Serbia's Constitution. You have them for what they do, definitely and rewarded them with 25 million dinars. That is why my amendment and it is said that these funds are channelled into a budget fund for the programme, protection and promotion of persons with disabilities by 38 million dinars, and that this donation is deleted by NGOs by the Ministry of Environment and Mining. This would greatly improve the situation of disabled people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65518	The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Vesna Maric to Sections 22, 23. Excuse me, first I give the word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65519	The honourable MP, and in other some discussions, was the focus of these NGOs with a pretty negative connotation, simply not knowing what the contents of that item were. I'll tell you what are the three most important items that are financed from this, and then you can judge if it's okay to take them off: it's the first -- the biggest political parties and election campaign, the second in line – the Ministry of Labour for People's Kitchens and the third – the Serbian Orthodox Church. Within these donations, these are the three largest items. Take care when you make suggestions, so we know what we're taking off and not just what we're adding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65520	Thank you. Don't make the atmosphere uncomfortable. The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Vesna Maric to Sections 22, 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65521	My amendment refers to division 22, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, function 40, economic classification 421, fixed costs, in columns 9 and 11 amounts: "81,200,000" is replaced by "88,200,000". At division 23, the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, function 440, economic classification 422, travel costs, in columns 9 and 11, the amount "eight million" is replaced by "million dinars". In order to comply with European legislation, it is not necessary to travel to EU Member States, but rather to study the materials it acquires and translates the Office for European Integrations on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens and therefore there is no need for environmental ministry officials to travel to the EU at the time of the major economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia. The explanation for their costs is pointless and inappropriate. Also, the SRS believes that after the European Council's decision to reject Serbia's candidacy, costs should be reduced in this area. On the other hand, the SRS believes that there are far more important priorities than the so-called SRS. European integration, which are obviously inconclusive after the European Council's decision to reject Serbia's membership bid, are: social giving and health care, education and agriculture. The funds of seven million are directed towards the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the area of support for families and children, especially in relation to maternity leave. This is much more important for the Republic of Serbia today than the so-called European integration that does not bring positive effects for Serbia in economic, legal and social terms. This seven million dinar savings is particularly important in forwarding for social needs, because after the devastating results of the 2011 census and Serbia, when it was announced that there are about 350,000 fewer people in Serbia than 10 years ago, it is clear that Serbia must... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65522	Thank you. On Article 7 of Sections 22 and 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65523	I want to call first the Prime Minister to look me in the eye, it's like looking people in the eye, and I'm going to try to defend the amendment that you refused. It is an amendment that states that in article 7, Section 22, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Chapter 22, point 2), the budgetary fund for the programme of protection and improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities, function 90, economic classification 421, fixed costs, column 9 adds an amount of 40 million, and in column 11 is replaced by 41 million. In Section 23, the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, function 440, economic classification 423, contracted services, in column 9 amounting to 41 million and 400,000 dinars is replaced by one million and 400 thousand, and in column 11 amounting to 191 million and 400 000 is replaced by 151 million 400 000. I'll give you an explanation. In times of economic crisis and following the rejection of Serbia's EU membership bid of 9. 12. In 2011, it is necessary to reduce funds related to the so-called European integration and harmonisation of rights with EU law and to focus on areas that are much more important for Serbian citizens. That is why 190 million funds are being channelled into the budget fund for the programme of protection and improvement of the situation of disabled people. This is much more important for the Republic of Serbia today than the so-called European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65524	The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic to Sections 22 and 23. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of Sections 22 and 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of Sections 22 and 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65525	I have tabled an amendment to the 2012 draft budget and I have divided it into Article 7, which refers to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Chapter 22-7, which provides for the institution for the mandatory social security register, which is related to the classification of 472, social security benefits from the budget, amounting to 494 million and 48 000 is replaced by 674 million, i.e. is increased by some 180 million. These 180 million are being replaced by the abolition of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because we believe there is a Council and there is no need to duplicate. The SRS is against corruption, but not at all costs, for this to cost us as much as expected, but at all levels, we all have to fight corruption. Compensation on classification 472, these are social protection benefits, funds are planned to pay workers' claims from their shareholders in bankruptcy. We know that the economy is in a catastrophic position, that there are bankruptcys going on every day and that many employees of the bankrupt companies remain unacceptable and that these people should be taken care of. The SRS believes Serbia is occupied by various agencies currently around 130 in Serbia. For example, Germany has six, Slovakia eight, Czech Republic 11, etc. All these agencies cost and are financed from the budget. That's why they need to be abolished, not increased, like you've been doing in recent years. Also, this budget provides for an increase in the issue of agencies. That's how the Anti-Corruption Agency last year envisioned 147 this year 181 million. However, there is another point to add that four and a half million euros are planned, i.e. 473 million dinars for the purchase of the facility...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65526	Thank you. On Article 7, split 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, paragraphs 22 and 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, paragraphs 22 and 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, division23, the amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65527	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister, in front of the Serbian Progressive Party, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget, in article 7, split chapter 231, function 560. For at least two reasons, I have submitted this amendment, which is why it can work in the ministry as well, and because huge funds are being allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so if we count all agencies and multiply how much they spend, it's about 20 billion dinars. We'd just take off our expenditures, I mean budget deficits, and there'd be a lot of funding for some maybe better allocations of those funds. So, in your explanation, you said you didn't accept the amendment because it was meant for the Environmental Protection Agency. Well, that's the point of this amendment, to end that appraisal. You're stating everything that agency needs to do. All of this can be done in the ministry in charge. You've heard it many times today when we talked about the budget that it's not developmental and it's not the social budget, and that's what I have to do again. If it were not for the development of development funds, we would not spend a lot of resources that were not purposely spent on a variety of infrastructures. The other day we saw a bridge, somewhere out there in central Serbia, which was only designed to promote the party, and there's no way away from that bridge, they crossed a river, but there's no bridge. Let's not talk about what's going on in Belgrade with some other bridges. So that's where we could find priorities for this budget, so we wouldn't have that kind of expenditure in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65528	To Article 7. Division of the 52nd Amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65529	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are familiar with this, but Serbia's citizens may need to be told that this is how they realize that the budgetary position of a political project carries 50% of the budget funds that came from other sources of income, rather than the division for science. That's why we wanted to take down 2.5 billion dinars from that project that found the entanglement in the budget and assign it to science. Why? To correct some parts of the domestic policies that have been led through several governments and several ministries, at least according to the Centre of Cereals in Kragujevac, which is blocked by debt, believe it or not, of just four million dinars. So that's 0.2% of what we'd pass on to allow these people to work. Of course, the total debt is the order of 2% of these pairs. What we have failed to agree before with the ministries and the government is two projects, and one possible completely missed and unexplained project, which has been re-enacted, is the state of "Nikole Tesla" in Vinca, at the Vinca Institute, in building number 10, where the unfinished accelerator, unused, has already been invested close to two million euros to create the facility. Now they're gonna do it at the Clinical Center. Once again the object, once again the accelerator, for example, that the material used as a radio marker, whose half life is 38 seconds, cannot be transferred from Vinci. It can't, of course, but today this material is being transported by airplanes from Hungary and Italy. So it's not about 38 seconds, it's about rare materials. Another potentially very risky and expensive project is 39m euros for this cosmic ship that you will make in New Belgrade. The promotion of science. It can be in the legate, it can be elsewhere, it can be such that it does not involve the double opening of the centre, say the Centre for stem cells, promised on October 15th in Kragujevac. Promiseed again at the fair on October 30th this year. Is that going to be two stem cell centers? Is it something to mask that this government doesn't actually know when it's in debt, and in the name of science, it sounds kind of mellow, acceptable, no one will object? These resources could be much smarter used to really help learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65530	The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65531	The citizens fell from their hearts, Mr. Cvetkovic spoke earlier, reported and said they thought he had lost his voice, but they didn't mean a good voice, because they know he lost it long ago. Mr. Cvetkovic, we didn't ask you what you just said. Answer which NGOs did you predict 5.5 billion dinars? Answer also what specialized services cost Serbian citizens 38 billion dinars? When it comes to this amendment to Article 8, you deceive the public, Mr Cvetkovic, like all of you in the regime, when you say that in the context of savings you will reduce public spending. If you were honest with me, you would accept our amendment. You have provided in this 3rd position of Article 8 to pay for October 2012, that the basis for the payment for civil servants and deputies is to be aligned with the rate of consumer prices in the previous six months. We suggest you put in this group workers in public enterprises, agencies and all regulatory bodies. Why? Because huge salaries are exactly in public enterprises, unnecessary agencies and regulatory bodies, but you're, of course, talking one thing, and you're doing the opposite of how you want to introduce yourself to the citizens. But, Mr Cvetkovic, the people know perfectly how they live, that is, how they are fighting for life, thanks to your devastating economic policy, as the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija know that you gave up Kosovo and Metohija for some of your journeys to the EU. We don't understand how you no longer realize that this destructive and traitorous policy is leading you nowhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65532	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65533	In Chapter 3 — Implementation of the budget, Article 11(1) provided that the commitments towards beneficiaries of the appropriations are to be implemented in proportion to the revenue and revenue generated. We asked the amendment to continue with the text – except for transfers to social insurance organisations. We believe it is necessary to exclude pensioners and other categories of social ageing from the budget, given above all the fact that a huge number of pensioners have low incomes, which do not provide them with either naked existence and only a reduction of pensions would be devastating, harmful and inappropriate for them. Of course, due to unbalanced income and expenditure movements during budget execution, you have to approach borrowing due to current liquidity. I think that's exactly what this applies to. Looks like you're going to bring the country into this situation. However, modern economic theory cannot explain your economic and budgetary policy. On the one hand, there is no focus on the potential of the economy to create wealth and capital, and on the other, there is still no increasing and improving the social environment and position of the vast majority of citizens. The external trade balance is tragically increasing, there is no improvement in the state of external and internal responsibilities, the debts of economy and citizens are constantly growing and realistically and nominally, and the number of reform definitions is growing, and they are counter-proportionally increasing games and the reality of collapse. We're in a situation where we have to investigate the causes of the absence...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65534	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65535	It took me a few minutes to add this to the question that I've been asked about these five billion and 200. I'll tell you five or six of the largest items. Political parties, or parties, related to the law, are somewhere around 1.8 billion, sport about 1.8 billion, kitchens about 0.6, and four items draw about five billion. This is over five, you've got plenty. And there's advice, let's say the National Minority Council is over 200 million, etc. Here, these are your main items, but I'm actually inviting you to read the budget in detail, so we don't have to do it again, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65536	And I'm also joining Mr. Prime Minister's request to read the text you're taking part in the debate. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the essence of this amendment to the SRS parliamentary club, which the government has adopted, is that this law prescribes that the Ministry of Finance should determine the dynamics of the payment of profits to public enterprises, public agencies and other forms of organisation, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, and not that they themselves determine the dynamics. This isn't going to be some big job, some big burden for the finance ministry, and we think it's going to be a big deal, because when you give someone a commitment and set a deadline, they're going to make as much effort as possible to honor that deadline. A much bigger problem in this whole story is what we've said several times, which has been established by many agencies and other institutions whose work goes to a lot of money out of the budget, because money is so spent because there's not enough money. What I started to say in the afternoon, but because of the Rules of Procedure and those two minutes prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, I couldn't finish. Because a lot of money is spent on the work of agencies and other institutions, there is no state chance of paying off its commitments. When I say this, I mean military reserve obligations. For commitments to one number, to be clear, it was earlier, however, for a huge number of those from the Jablani County are now gone. He's been gone for a few years. I repeat, people here are not asking for anything more than those rights that individuals already have. For these people, then Serbia had no alternative when it was supposed to be, and neither is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65538	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment is the afternoon MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65539	In this article is the largest robbery by Serbian citizens. This article refers to the non-application of a general collective contract. What did the government do in 2008 before the election? Fifteen days before the elections, she signed a general collective agreement on 28 April 2008. When the Government is elected, with great praises – we will apply the general collective agreement and we will notify it, etc., but we cannot now, since we do not have a budget. It's the end of the year, you've frozen, you've defined the non-application of a general collective contract. How difficult is this general collective agreement at the annual level? Between 70 billion and 75 billion dinars, which is between 7.5 billion and 8,000 per employee. So much of every employee in the state administration is damaged by the inappropriation of this contract. That's why it's the biggest robbery. What exactly does that apply to? To pay off the regression, the warm meal and past work. I said that's this sum of 7.5 grand. Imagine now the situation when you add these 7.5 thousand to the lowest profit, for 45% each worker in the Republic of Serbia has been denied because you lied to workers in the state administration. What will be his destiny? It'll never come into effect. What is the fate of all other collective agreements, if we do not have a general collective agreement, in which basic rights and obligations are established, and the obligation of the state is signed on your part, but you have played labour and citizens of Serbia. That's how this government works.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65540	Thank you. MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65541	The current amendment, Mr Buhe, shows the meaning of all our amendments, which are social contributions, employee care, pensioners' care, health care, Serbian businesses, enterprises that have majority Serbian capital. That's the purpose of all our amendments and Mr. Buha's amendments. On the other hand, we are against the isolation for the EU, we are against the cost of travel to Brussels, to the EU, we are against huge issues for the European office, we are against financing the "Fiita", i.e. The Anelli families and we are against such costs of services under contract for the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, which you represent. So we have one good intention to make this budget much better, to be closer to our citizens. We find it shameful and scandalous to finance foreign banks from this budget, to grant subsidies to foreign banks for subsidised loans, if we know that these foreign banks have 70% of the markets in the Republic of Serbia. We also believe that Serbia should finally start caring for its citizens at KIM and after the European Council's decision of 9 December 2011 to reroute the abnormally high funds for the EU, for so-called. European integration in economic, legal and other terms towards strengthening the institutions of the Serbian state in the north of Kosovo and the south of Kosovo and everywhere where our citizens are threatened by the EU and those who impose such interest on us. You certainly know that in this budget there is a 14 billion-dollar separation for interest, which is an obvious and direct consequence of listening to someone who has ruined Poland and Hungary, Mr Mark Allen and those representing the IMF. Therefore, turn to Serbian citizens, turn to our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65542	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65543	Article 17 says that the government is extremely able to decide on the write-off, i.e. the conversion of individual and arrived claims from the Republic of Serbia based on loans from the Budget to legal person debtors' capital, based on criteria established by the finance ministry and after obtaining the consent of the National Assembly. And when did you get the consent from us? This is an amendment, which we invested two years ago, adopted by the government. You never asked the Assembly for this kind of behavior. This is a member of your most trusted painting. The executive authority shall, by means of regulations, override the power of the legislative authority on its part as gears. It gives itself the right to write off loans that it gives without the criteria of the known Assembly, to reprivatize enterprises, as it suits it, to write off debts to companies in restructuring, to prohibit trustees from being charged and to be the owner of anything that cannot be owned by any economic theory. This article proves that, Mr Cvetkovic, you have written this budget not by the rules of economic profession, but by the rules of the rule theory that says – praise the loans, find new procedures for borrowing, find other ways to raise funds, government bonds, borrow loans from state banks and city administrations, rent municipal and state estates, sell national goods. Take care only of credit institutions and insurance companies. The way to dispose of public wealth and the fate of citizens, find a way to bind you to your own survival, because you are established power. As paid, raise your taxes. How are government loans supported? Use large credit institutions in such a way that the apparent objective is to provide credit to the industry, and that this is actually a hidden support to the course of state shares. Is there anything I should add? It's like Makiavelli was writing this budget, not economic waist. Congratulations, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65544	You have Mr. Arsic for another minute and a half. You will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65545	I'll try for that minute and a half at least to say something. The Prime Minister said MPs read the budget well. We try to read the budget as much as possible and what we notice is that the methodology of the general part of the budget is constantly changing. This is what these committee presidents, who should know, do not know what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is hiding from its citizens, from this Assembly and what are the reasons? It hides that the revenue side of the budget, in that real part, is not possible. It is said that 38 billion dinars have already been spent from reserve funds this year. It hides that he cannot collect so much tax and that he will owe his life to Serbia in 2012 to the loans he will raise, whether by foreign banks, whether from domestic banks, whether on the domestic market, whether on the side. That's the future with a government like this. Lucky for six more months, they'll be making this policy in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65546	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65547	Dear People's MPs, if I understand this is the last amendment, so I wanted to say a few sentences. I think the discussion was very good, it was constructive, and of course you saw that certain amendments were directly accepted, even the opposition amendments, but there are a good number of amendments that we accepted not formally, but by the government creating special amendments that were essentially inspired by what the MPs wanted with their amendments, and maybe they didn't do it in a good technical way, so I thank all those who took part in this. In the end, I would just like to comment, because somehow I have a question of reliability of projections, especially when it comes to revenue. One finding that revenues are overestimated on the basis that they are slightly higher by six comas compared to this year's revenues, and that the rate of growth of the gross domestic product is 1.5 and that it is impossible for such a low rate to generate such high income growth. I have to say, that reasoning is absolutely correct, in case it's a matter of constant prices. Since the budgets are running at current prices, since we had inflation during this calendar year, which will end up somewhere with 8% should practically add this 1.5 to these, and get to 9.5% of what those 6.5% were derived from, so less than what would be a group calculated from the collection of inflation indexes, the index of expected growth of the gross domestic product. Of course, it's less because of certain redistributions between different levels of the budget. On the other hand, of course no one can ever be completely sure. That's why they call it projections. We'll see the results, but what I can say is that it's based on the knowledge they have at this point, that revenue projections are done in a standard professional way and that this way projection shows us, if you go back to history, that they were pretty accurate. Now, quite finally, I urge you all to vote and adopt this budget and thus adopt the final budget in the term of office of this government, which is the length of its term of office, to send Europe and the world a positive message on political stability. So, no more every year, two days of choice, instability, we've now entered a regular course. The government is completing its mandate. I also want that other government, which will be elected next year also a four-year term, and one word stability in this country, both macroeconomicly and politically, which is important enough for the country's reputation as a whole. Thank you and vote for the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65548	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am on the basis of a search in particular on the agenda points from 2nd to 10th, next to the representatives of the motionary Dr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Finance Minister. She also called for Dusan Nikezic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ruzica Stojljkovic, Assistant Finance Minister Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Finance Minister Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary and Dejan Hadzic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the budget system. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Dimitrijveić, together Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Toković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz. You received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the Financial Committee's report. The National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65549	In Article 1 We asked the bill to be monitored and recorded specifically because budget beneficiaries, as well as those who plan, monitor, control and execute them, keep their own and dedicated revenues aggregated. It is absolutely impossible to accurately, especially when controlling whether the intended revenues, as specifically recorded, are determined, charged and spent. This is a request submitted by the DRI to the Finance Committee during the previous amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. If someone authorised to control it, it has been shown in practice that he is unable to monitor the flow of funds that have a special nature, in creation and in spending. I really don't understand the reason why you reject this amendment, and all the time you're standing up for public, clear and controlled spending of budget funds. But the explanation gives me a fiscal advice that says that over its own income, there are constraints in budget planning, so it's extremely impossible to figure out where 5 billion at the Ministry of Agriculture at its administrations, the Water Budget Fund, the Agriculture Land Administration. That revenue has increased to 15 billion dinars and if you add here these dedicated funds that are unsecured in particular, it is possible that in this election year you are doing what you started. You're hiring people past the limits using exactly this kind of means. So this amendment has not been rejected by accident but allows the government to use the budget to bribe voters with funds from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65550	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65551	Please remind me when there are two minutes because I want the time from my authorized to leave my colleague for the Traffic Safety Act and to explain these amendments as soon as possible. Article 3 The proposal in which you want the foreign currency to be managed together as well as the dinar resources of all budgetary, indirect and direct users, I support. Two years ago, when we were doing basic law, we also asked that foreign currency be managed as assets that you must have control over. But don't allow exceptions like the one you've allowed, that, besides NB and budgets, some users can manage those foreign exchange funds with other business banks, and apparently when they need it at the request of international institutions that implement certain programmes. What you can't do as a government, what the NBS can't do, and who else can? I don't see you putting yourself through an exception institute and giving it right to someone else. I think you need to maintain control of the total foreign exchange assets of the budget users, especially in this situation where we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65552	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65553	This amendment refers to Article 27, or Article 27, which seems to me, 27g of the basic law, to the final position in that law. What is very interesting is, Mr Cvetkovic, what is written in that position of the Budgetary System Act - if the Government decides, on a proposal from the Minister, to amend and supplement the reports on the fiscal strategy and based on recommendations made by the National Assembly. Mr. Cvetkovic, this is where the grandmothers and frogs got mixed up. The government cannot, and imagine that, on a proposal from the Minister, decide whether or not to follow the recommendations of the National Assembly. What the SRS asked you to do is respect the Constitution and, Mr Cvetkovic, accept the amendment to the SRS, which says the government is obliged to adopt the recommendations it made to the National Assembly, to amend them and supplement them in the revised report, etc. The fact that things are wrong and the practice of the last four years has become that this home controls your home from Germany 11, it's not in accordance with the Constitution and it's upside down and the SRS is trying to change that. But what is the highlight of irony here, you are also calling for a member of the Budgetary System Act that regulates the budget calendar and you say that adoption of the change would question the application of the budget calendar. That's what you say who don't respect the budget calendar first when it comes to the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You have a duty to accept this, because as a government, you are obliged to carry out everything that requires of you this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65554	The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65555	Article 6 The proposal speaks of Article 27a of the basic law. It speaks of the fact that public investment is now treated as a particular thing in the new Budgetary System Act and is required by the last position of that member to accept and to assess with the Fiscal Council the compliance of public investment with accounting standards. Did you define at all, Mr. Minister, the concept of public investment? No, and there are no definitions in the Budgetary System Act. What is considered a public investment? Is there another element to explain what it means and on what criteria the DRI can use with the Fiscal Council to give this grade? Well, you can't ask anyone to judge anything if they don't even know what it is. I asked you to delete the DRI, because it's a shame that one organization that does your job seriously gets you into this kind of surface. You refuse. For what reason? To lose credibility and them? I don't think it's really right for you to keep DRI in this system of responsibility without even having a definition of what public investment is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65556	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has submitted this amendment with the intention of proposing a single commitment, that plans to implement medium-term public investment priorities be a mandatory part of the financial plans. Because the way it's written, we see that there's no obligation, so they can be, and they don't have to be. If a proposing representative would accept our amendment, then a commitment would be made. How? So that the financial plans of budget users could not be adopted if their component did not make up the plans I mentioned, plans to implement the medium-term public investment priorities. As suggested, it can and doesn't have to. Someone's gonna want to respect it, and someone won't. Practice shows that if someone doesn't have to do something, they don't do it. We believe that this is in practice or will not be applied or applied to a very small extent, and then you have in vain added this Article 27j. Otherwise, the Budgetary System Act is one of the laws that is constantly being violated, and is most often broken by representatives of this government. He's also in violation of the National Assembly. Here, that I'm not out of the picture, a little bit of an hour we've finished the debate on the Budget Law, which has been regularly brought down at the last minute all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65558	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65559	It is interesting that two years after the adoption of a whole new Budgetary System Act, you promise to provide the Assembly with an assessment of the financial effects of the laws to be adopted, given the implications they will have on the budget. You are asking the promoter that if he is establishing something new as an organ or a new consumer, he says he will take funds from the budget so that he can provide himself. We MPs have this obligation long ago when we submit amendments to the budget, but that commitment to the Assembly today doesn't mean that you deliver to us as a government even two sentences of a budget and what financial effects these are. We've had a long sentence - whether you need it or not. This time you say you'll deliver, and we're asking you to make a contribution legally binding. We do not even ask that, according to the methodology that the Budgetary System Act implies, provide MPs with a detailed explanation of these financial effects. So, the minimum cost of a financial law, not to agree with us, is a nice Serbian word, that the Agency for Business Registers does not require any new dinar to establish new obligations, and in the budget of 210 million for the Agency for Economic Registers. I ask you to make a mandatory contribution to the law in the future to assess the financial effects of these new laws on the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65560	The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65561	I think the hardest part of this law is just Article 18. It is not enough for the government to change the appraisals, that it is trying to introduce in the Law on State Officials the staff from courts and the judiciary and then be the one who pays them, determines, etc. pay. Little is it to you that you can do with regulations what you want to do, to share subsidies, but you still want to increase the current budget reserve by 1.5% of the total income and receipts from sales, not financial assets, means printing securities from value and raising it to 2%. Why are you going to the liquid reserve? Because you do not report to the Assembly for it and because you do not use it according to pre-planned unscheduled accidents, diseases, which can endanger animal and human health, which is a constant budget reserve. How long, gentlemen, do you need this kind of discretionary spending behind the curtain that you're not going to account for? I think this is really beyond every measure and order, asking that and this amount of funds, and now you're out of this reserve finished one amendment that provides you with most of it. Not bad, at the request of a parliamentary group of duke Hungarians, you took it off from here. So tomorrow you will work until the election, whenever someone threatens to disobey you will use this money, not for the citizens of Serbia, not for any kind of means of purpose. This is the conduct of the Assembly, you are taking the role of spending not 1.5 of total duties on paper emissions, but raising it by 25%. How long? By May 8, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65562	The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65563	In Article 21, you have set that the date since when all those who have foreign funds are indirect or direct budget users, it is only July of the month that these foreign exchange accounts need to give you control and with the exception that they can pass the National Bank and past you, if they use some foreign international funding, and the condition is that the National Bank cannot do the job. Why do you leave them for six months? Is your financial situation that good? Is that how much we get from export? Is that how much foreign reserve we have? Do you leave any time frame for the economy to breathe, to untie the debt knot? I wonder what reasons, technical or essential nature, you've been in charge of, instead of, as we suggest since 1 March, leaving things to be settled, you're extending that cancer to July? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65564	This was the last amendment in the search. If no one else answers the word, I'll conclude a search of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to a search in the details of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON ACCIZA You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Dusan Marić, Dragan Stevanović, Vladan Jeremic, Vjerica Radeta, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Goran Mihajlović, Dusanka Plecevic, Aleksandar Martinović, Radisa Ilic and Milorad Buha. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65565	Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed to delete Article 1 as well as all members of this bill for the reason that this law is one of the new year's congratulations of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who will further lower their life standard anyway. Translated from all the figures found in this law, this card reads: Serbian citizens, next year you expect a significant increase in the price of cigarettes and the cheapest cigarettes you use the most. The second view of this card is: Serbian citizens, in the following year you will only be able to bake brandy if you are a registered producer of this noble liquid. This card is sent to you by the government of the Republic of Serbia in order to hand it over to Brussels and to ensure Serbia's EU bid. I remind you that for four years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has met all the requirements of Brussels, but instead of the December 9th prize, this authority has received one, peopleally speaking, slapping, instead of protesting, instead of turning to itself and fixing the situation in its own house.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65566	People's MP, please discuss the subject of the agenda. The arguments you are currently exhibiting have nothing to do with the amendment that you have tabled on the amendment and supplement of the Excise Act, which is to be deleted, so I ask you about the subject of the agenda, or you force me to use the obligations that I have under my Rules of Procedure when the MP decides to violate a provision which requires him to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65567	The government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that we adopt a law that will increase the price of cigarettes, as the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes a law that will prevent Serbian citizens, the Serbian hosts of Pomoravlje and Šumadija from doing what they and their ancestors have done for decades and centuries, in their backyard, along with their neighbours, to bake brandy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65568	I ask all Members of the People's Parliament to, if necessary, look at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Momir Markovic, from the post: For what? ) National MP Momir Markovic asks for what, to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that prescribe you to speak on the subject of the agenda. I'm asking you to remind yourself because I don't think it's right to waste your time and your warning time, so whoever wants to not talk about the subject of the agenda is forcing me to give a warning, and that's how we're going to hold a session in accordance with Article 27 and Article 106. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the amendments of the SRS to this law are identical, we suggest that everything you propose to amend and supplement erases, or the Serbian Radical Party thinks that this is just the first step you make for the next year 2012, because, if not all of them, at least those who, in economic terms, are making us a destiny, are aware that the income in 2012 will not be. We don't care about these institutes and the methodology for establishing customs, whether it's European or not, is the essence of the story that doesn't really care about you who promote the EU in Serbia. You know very well, and very discreetly in your last sentence you wrote that the goal is to create conditions for increasing budget revenues. Your inability to deal adequately with economic policy and economic problems will, as usual, be reflected on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they will pay higher prices, and we hope most of all in one institution of that property, that precisely because of this consumption of cigarettes will fall and that you will remain deprived of the revenues you hope to make in this perfidious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65570	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 4. The amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65571	And this bill and this Article 4 speak in favour of our claim that the Prime Minister did not read the budget that the IMF officials wrote to him, because if he did, he would know what was in the budget and he would know that those 5.5 billion are not going where he said he was going.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65572	I would ask you to know that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. I interrupted MP Dusan Maric and then took advantage of my obligation under article 27 to remind you that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. Please, either the subject of the agenda or to apply the Rules of Procedure which says that the chairman is obliged to give notices. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65573	Article 4 refers to Article 20a. which speaks of the billing and payment of excise duties, which must be collected to make up for the budget of 38 billion that are provided for specialised services, and no one has told us here what specialised services these are. Position 2, also, Article 20a. discusses how excise funds will be collected in order to touch the regulatory bodies and agencies of 22 billion dinars. But it's interesting here, why in this article you added that the suspension of excise duties also applies to goods sent to a customs warehouse in accordance with customs regulations, when the solution that we have in the basic text of the law is much better and more precise and then, by the way, the prime minister here, we would ask him, but now that he hears the public question, is this relevant to Brnjak and Jarinje and so on. Integrated Customs Management, which no one has yet explained to us what it means, although it is clear that this means making customs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia between the false state of Kosovo and the second part of the Republic of Serbia? That's what this government's policy is and what, unfortunately, as you see in every law that you deliver under the grain here, you're also going through the fact that through all the laws that you're making, you're basically recognising the false state of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65574	Two minutes. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65575	Commenting on the previous amendment I submitted, I also said this was all just a start. And indeed, we expect that in the following year, in addition to excise duties on tobacco products, the government decides to change excise duties on oil, oil derivatives, because what you have projected, which is that the revenues in excises increase by 29 billion dinars next year, is simply amazing and we really believe that you will not choose the funds that you will use to eventually achieve these effects. Along with the increase in the projected VAT, you plan to provide 50 billion dinars in the budget more in the following year. In a country where growth is projected to fall from this unfortunate year of 2011, and even some say that growth will be zero, if growth can be called zero, and the only thing you get caught for as stranglers is that you expect inflation to be over 6.7%, so you're installing inflation into tax revenues. It's pathetic, it's a complete incompetence, and it's proof that Serbia really needs to clear up with you who have been leading the state in the last three or four years, and this is just a draw to unreasonable fiscal economic policy. Mr. Cvetkovic, you should have acted differently when the state was fiscally financially and economically relieved. If you had acted responsibly then, today you would probably have more easily designed and relieved the budget. This is how Serbia, the Serbian people and everyone living here with this kind of excise and tax policy have nothing to hope for in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65576	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65577	I request an amendment to delete the article of the 8th of this bill. We from the SRS are against all additional duties beyond tax, and excise duty is a form of additional duty on both the product and the tax, what is people's say by force on the villa, regardless of the alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco processing. Article 8 changes Article 40 and increases by 25 dinars per pack of cigarettes and to 33 in 2012. These changes are another proof of how irresponsible this government is and not interested in Serbia's only real economic development, which is investment in production and employment. It is the only way to increase the purchasing power of citizens, and thus consumption, to reduce the tax burden. It's the only logical and economically justified way of filling the state budget. All the salesmen from Belgrade's markets know that, but not our government. No increase in the burden will fill such a wasteful and unrealistic budget. The government's economic policy is about increasing taxes, taxes, excise duties, taxis, penalties and other charges, as if it were not for experts and experts, but for greeners and matchmakers. Even more amazing, it sounds like an explanation of the reason for these changes. Except for the already inevitable so-called. Approaching European standards, following the Council's directive, which is the main reason for you to pass any law, you also state the following reasons – this increase will lead to the purchase of cigarettes in retail and this will, in your opinion, lead to a reduction in tobacco consumption. The second increase in excise duties in 2012 and 2013 will reportedly allow the sustainability of investment and employment in the domestic tobacco industry. What do you say to these contradictory arguments and predictions, except that they're funny? According to the Association of Tobacco Producers in Serbia, about 2.5 thousand people are engaged in this production, and 10,000 people are supported by it. Do you think by extra taxation of what 2.5 thousand people produce, they'll calm down your insufferable budget appetites? No way. Even if this number was multiple...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65578	Two minutes. Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Maritovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65579	As Mr. Stevanović has said, we have proposed to delete all members, including members 11. On one side, the government hurried by the adoption of this law. On the other hand, the government is delaying its practical application. The government passed the law on December 16th and delivered it to the Assembly by emergency procedure. It proposes that the law be applied from 1 January of next year. The urgency is also referred to as reasons for passing the law, where it is said that it is the need to ensure a fairer and more stable collection of excise duties on tobacco products, which will ensure greater budget revenues. Then in Article 11, the government has been rushing as if sugar had fallen into the water says that the provisions on the collection of excise duties under the new accounting methodology will take effect in six months, July 1st of the following year. Then one question arises – why is the Government so hasty on the one hand, and on the other hand delays the application of the measures that should ensure to the greatest extent that the budget is charged when it comes to this law? The explanation is very simple - with the adoption of the law, the government hurried to pass the EU, to win EU membership candidacy in 2389, and on the other hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65580	People's MP, please don't deceive the public with a slip, 2012 is about and I ask you about the agenda. I listen very carefully to you, so on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65581	No, I didn't say law enforcement was from January 1st. I am talking about Serbia's accession to EU membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65582	I have listened very carefully to you and I say that you have deceived the public with your failure, because it is 2012 when Serbia will pass another step at the reception. I remind you one last time before you give the notice, about the agenda. I'd like to ask the People's MP, Ms. Radet, not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65583	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65584	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65585	The adoption of this law will lead to an increase in excise duties on cigarettes and an increase in the price of cigarettes. For this to happen before the election, and the elections are announced for the end of April or for Djurđevdan on 6 May, the government proposes this solution from Article 11 where it says - the application of this provision will begin in six months, 1 July 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65586	Two minutes. Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65587	Article 12 provides for the harmonisation of excise duties on cigarettes, so in 2013 there will also be an increase, as is the case here, in line with the price increase index. We went to all the members with the activity to delete, since it is unacceptable that in the context of the economic crisis we go to an increase, because in any case this will lead to an increase in prices, i.e. the consumer price index, and it is a fact of budget building. You say in your explanation that the goal is to increase budget revenues. It will be one congratulations to the citizens of Serbia from this government, but it is likely that the people expect nothing else. What's the SRS stand for? If you are already increasing and harmonising, put into what is natural and normal and what the whole normal world is doing – the subsidies of prosperous industries, agriculture and food industries. Here's a solution. What you take from tobacco, invest in the production of industrial herbs. This surplus that you take by increasing the price index, invest in green oil. You know what green oil is, that's what the villagers know. Of alcoholic beverages – in fruit growing and winemaking. Here's how you can help agriculture, the food industry and some other branches, because they're gonna raise huge funds. For 2012 per budget, it is 191 billion, i.e. an increase of around 8.5% compared to the previous year. You invest these funds in agriculture, and you'll see that it's about 50% on the subsidies that were allocated to agriculture this year. It's a serious asset, and if this government wants to help, here's a way. You have a solution. You always say the opposition has no solution. Here's a concrete solution to how to help and improve. From what you stood up for and said that you were socially and socially responsible to the government... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65588	Two minutes. Thank you. I ask the MPs to remind you that the amendment that is under investigation is to delete that member, that is the proposal. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65589	The government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that the law enter into force on January 1st. We have suggested eradicating this member for the following reasons: under the Constitution, the law can enter into force before the eighth day of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" only in the case of special, exceptional circumstances such as: war, prewar danger, major elemental accident, an epidemic of some disease or some other elemental disaster, or if there are circumstances which will result in serious consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the country itself. This isn't about any of it. You have thus continued with one practice to adopt laws that enter into force before a normal deadline. Two days ago, on Monday, December 26th, you adopted the Financial Business Plan of the Energy Agency in 2011, and by the end of the year there are five days left. Watch the absurd – we adopt a law on the financial plan of a state-owned institution, one state body for 2011 five days before the end of 2011. The same day, so in five to 12, you extended the period of validity of the Encouragement Act in the construction industry. His deadline stood out the day after tomorrow. We had the same problem with the validity of personal documents. You have tripled the period of validity of the old ID card and the old passport. We've all warned you three times that the deadlines are too short. All three times you refused the arguments of the SRS and each time, after a few months or a year, you appeared with legal proposals that were nothing more than our proposals that you didn't respect. Now we have the same situation. Instead of once, we discuss the same thing several times, spend time and money. However, household business cannot be expected from the government, which in its Serbian citizen's term has charged six billion 626m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65590	This was the last amendment to the search in particular, and so we completed the review of the amendments and I am concluding a review of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by Members of the People: Milan Škrbić, Zoran Krasić, Dejan Mirović, Vladan Jeremic, Nemanja Sarović, Bojan Mladenovic, Vjerica Rade, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Milorad Buha, Sreto Perić, Dobrislav Prelić, Dusan Marić, Radiša Ilic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jurvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Babić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Kišmarton, Milan Knežević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatić, Ljaran Babiljić, Žaljavić, Žalićaljić, Žalićaljić, Žalić, Žilićaljićaljić, Žilić, Žilić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You've received a report from the Finance Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65591	What do you say more about disqualifying this law, and I'll say more than what the Fiscal Council said? The fiscal council has assessed this bill as harassment, and I will translate it, the taxpayers, because by the effects of the law that will not bring about any revenue, but according to the tax incentives and exemptions you've given for those who buy debt securities of value, that is, what you're broadcasting, there will be a release, and it will be to the foreigners, but the negative effects of this reduction will not be seen in the first year, but in the next year. So, this bill of yours is assessed negatively, because tax revenues are neutral, negative for tax revenues already in the second year, but it will bring in a disturbance of taxpayers who will have to change the way they register and work. What's the issue in Article 1? You have proposed to create a new group of taxpayers, which has actually existed so far, and those institutions that generate income on the market, regardless of whether they have a dominant or monopolies position that accounts for more than 80% of its total income and you set it into so-called. the other legal person. Instead of equating the tax regime and equating legal status, you're actually introducing new differences. Mr. Cvetkovic, you should know that one fundamental question can be asked – how will you apply the tax balance form in this case to indirect beneficiaries of budget funds? We have proposed the amendment to maintain the existing situation, with the appropriate amendment of Article 44 of this Act and the amendment of the Regulation, where you will actually arrange how the tax balance is made and in that part it is really possible to make equal treatment, and not in this way to work, in fact, making a truly baseless difference in the tax status of non-profit organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65592	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65593	This article refers to the definition of the taxpayer in the corporate tax. In addition to the fact that there is a fundamental lack of knowledge and discrepancy with the relevant regulations on economic operators, we asked this amendment to delete the word "mostly". Because a legal person who is not registered as a company or an entrepreneur can also be Sonja Licht and you release her from profit tax if she makes 79% of the income on the market, selling staff like Oliver Dulic and these others. Where did you get that idea? I guess it's pretty much all that's over 51%, huh? You are thus liberating NGOs and those who interfere in economic life and have not found fit to register as a company. So you want to help NGOs spend 5.5 billion per budget for 2012, because then Mr. Dulic will be able to finance environmental NGOs that share flyers with Mirko Cvetkovic's character... . (President: National MP, I ask you very nicely not to allow yourself to stray from the obligation to speak of the agenda. I don't mind that you're tired, but you're obliged to read the bill. (President: I'm reading and just because I read the bill and the profit tax, I'm asking you... You didn't listen to me either. It's an elementary culture. (President: People's MP, I am obliged to interrupt the MP who makes a conscious or unconscious violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe the subject of the agenda and I am doing so because I read every draft law, every amendment, and I am obliged to take care of the agenda and to remind the MPs when they forget, quite naturally, to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So, about the amendment you submitted. You've got 45 seconds left. I'm really sorry that you distracted the fact that I submitted the amendment, not you. (President: People's MP, I'm sorry that I have to remind you what amendment you have submitted, because you've confused the amendment with your mind, as you've interfered with with your mind and what law it is, so I'm asking you about the subject of the agenda. So, the purpose of this amendment is to help Sonja Biserko, Deretti, Sonja Licht... (President: National MP, if you insist on reminding yourself of the amendment you have tabled and the bill is done by giving you a warning, I am at your disposal. ) It is really wrong for me not to be able to list the non-profit organisations covered by Article 1. The bill of amendments and additions to this law, but the point is how to wash the money. The point is, if someone on the basis of the transport services he makes...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65594	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? MP Dusan Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65595	Ladies and gentlemen, according to a proposal from the Government, the recipient of the income is required to submit to the municipal authority a tax application of the income obtained no later than 15 days from the date on which the income was made. Based on that application, the tax authority will make a solution. However, the government does not say what is the deadline within which the tax authority must make a solution. If the solution proposed by the Government remains, it can happen within five days, within 25 days, depending on how they are in the mood and whether in the process of making solutions they have a particular interest. So that the speed of making tax solutions would not depend on the goodwill of the people employed by the tax authority, we have submitted an amendment proposing that the solution be made and the parties delivered no later than 10 days after the date of the tax application...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65596	National MP, the amendment you have submitted, in Article 1 paragraphs 2 and 3, the words "on the market" are deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65597	We have suggested erasing this amendment for the following reasons... (President: National MP, you did not propose to delete the amendments, but the text of the amendment you proposed is deleted in Article 1(2) and (3) of the words "on the market". Can I have some concentration, please? ) It cannot be a concentration if you allow MPs to earn. (President: National MP, you have misread the text of the amendment you have submitted. I'm listening very carefully. ) The government thus extends the list of taxpayers and says – the taxpayer is a legal person who earns income mainly by selling products on the market. We have suggested that these words be deleted "on the market" for reasons that we do not know any goods sold without being sold on the market. All the goods sold, sold on the market, the difference is whether it's a legal or illegal market. The goods sold on the counter with the fiscal register and goods sold, as the people say, under the grain, are sold on the market. Under market goods, the government of the Republic of Serbia probably meant goods sold in legal flows, but it is not normal for the government to propose one legal provision on tax obligations in trade in which it says - this provision applies only to goods sold in legal flows. What I'm interested in...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65598	Two minutes, thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65599	It's a concrete proposal, I think someone's read these amendments, to accept this extremely comprehensively, rationally and clearly, as proposed by this amendment. You often object that we are deconstructive, that we do not propose the right amendment. This is a real amendment. Why is it real? Because we went instead of an empty formulation, which you have provided here – mostly the revenue obtained from selling products on the market or the provision of services with compensation. How do you determine that, in what way? Here's a concrete proposal. When it comes to an amount greater than 1.5 million, profit tax is paid in that situation, specifically and quite clearly. It is appropriate to make 15,000 euros when more is achieved, regardless of whether it is from benefits or on the market or outside the market, in any case it is income, it enters the financial report. Therefore, you have more than 1.5 million, the profit tax is paid, extremely clearly, rationally, however, it is unacceptable for you. I don't know why. Why are we not, basically this legal formulation of the whole member is so empty, that it will not be applicable, but it is obvious that you want to release NGOs with such empty formulations. That's the point. If you say, the taxpayer, then it is all those who enter the legal faces, the physical faces, and all the others. You here in paragraph 2 say - the taxpayer is in line with this law and another legal person. What kind of a formulation is that? The taxpayer is a taxpayer, according to the tax law they are both natural and legal persons and all other legal persons, associations of citizens etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65600	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. People's MP, please register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65601	In article 2, you also went with one bad solution. You say this - the taxpayer referred to in Article 1 paragraph 3 of this Act, which determines the profit tax in the manner set out in Article 2 or Article 3 of this Article, is obliged to apply such a method of determining the taxable profit to at least 10 tax revenues, starting from the period during which he obtained revenue mainly through the sale of products on the market or the provision of services, etc. It's inappropriate to put it back 10 years. How about a coded taxpayer who started working a year ago, three years ago, how you're gonna get him back 10 years, when he didn't exist. That's why we asked for a wipe. I think it's rational. It's unacceptable to form like this, it can't stand. On the other hand, when you say - back 10 years, when we have a legal taxpayer who's really worked for 10 years, why is he paying it back? I guess this moment today reflects the actual ability of the tax authority to collect revenue. Why return it to a period when that taxpayer didn't work or maybe he was doing very well, and now he's not working, etc. One hundred solutions, but you're applying ten-year tax revenues, you're turning back, etc. And again you're going to do something by some godfather principle or some other principle that doesn't reflect the real base of the tax system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65602	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted. MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, here in the New Serbia Group's 3rd parliamentary group has tabled an amendment amending Article 16 in item 1(2), which reads that these claims in taxpayer books have been written off as irrevocable. An explanation for this amendment, as the text of the bill in point (1) and (3) of paragraph 1 of this article uses the word "seeking" exclusively in the plural, that is, from the aspect of the language consistency of the text of the law, the justified solution is proposed by the amendment. Mr. President, I practically have a technical amendment, and in the abundance of these unaccepted amendments, I don't see a single reason why an amendment like this, which essentially doesn't change anything, but it's linguistically precise, there's no reason not to accept this amendment. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65604	Did the People's MP Milorad Buha submit to the Third Amendment? Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65605	I've asked to delete point three, so I'm just going to read the introduction of this article for public reasons. "The burden of expenditure is recognised by a description of the value of the individual claim in point 1) that it is undoubtedly demonstrated that these claims were previously included in the incomes of the debtors, under 2) that this claim in the books of the taxpayer was written off as non-refundable and 3) that the taxpayer provided evidence of the failure to collect these claims by court." For the SRS, this is unacceptable because the court procedure for the collection of claims takes several months. As a rule, it's the lucky ones, the ones with the best friends, the friendly ones. A few years, even a few dozen years. How, now, does a taxpayer who really needs to be given the opportunity to make a write-off and that those claims, which are in accordance with point 1), are undoubtedly proven, etc., that they are included and that this claim by the taxpayer is written off as incurable, if it takes several years? So this third condition won't be met because our judicial system, the claim system, which includes a severance charge so long, is impossible to wait for a court solution to make that payment or an attempt to charge it. That's why it's unacceptable, and I think even this explanation that you've listed here is empty. I don't have time to read now, but think operationally, you who are working on this amendment, get rid of it, make it difficult and even settle the tax balances that are otherwise complex, which are dysfunctional and which are such that they don't maintain a real state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65606	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65607	Mr. Cvetkovic, you've woken up late, you're now trying through this law to offer some relief to the businessmen and you're saying that those who do business in the free zone, and they're doing productive work, they're going to be released 100% of this income tax. However, this law allows for the application, i.e. in a quality way, of the law on contractual financial restructuring, and we have proposed here a technical amendment. What counterpart Krasic was talking about, the direct financing of NGOs from the Republic of Serbia's budget does not have to be done in such a direct manner. Here, we have where the Ministry of Youth and Sports during the duration of your government, Mr. Cvetkovic, has singled out and paid off, we have evidence of this, Sonji Licht 10 million and something over three or four contracts. Here, it doesn't have to be a direct detachment from the NGO budget, what you keep hiding, and you won't say, those five billion. They are not at all what you are talking about for NGOs, but in a completely different way, you have tried from the MPs of the SRS, but we have established and established it, and you are trying to hide from the citizens of Serbia, to show that you are working in their interest. It's too late, Mr. Cvetkovic, for what you are now trying to do and for a number of non-governmental NGOs to put in the field of engagement, so you say that they are subject to the same regulations that apply to business entities, but we recognize your intention. You want to waste the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in one irresponsible and non-household way, spending the resources of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65608	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65609	What do you mean? I'm waiting for a stuck-up rifle to be executed by the chairman's box of exchanges. Mr. Cvetkovic, this member refers to the establishment of expenditure, so that we can finally get to profit. Mr Cvetkovic, Serbia has the lowest corporate tax rate, however, it was not a magnet for foreign investors, so the state had to make hotels on the Old Mountain. Now, there are a few things about this member that you've done well, and there are a few things that you've done badly. One thing that's bad is attitude 4. I don't want to talk now, because my time is running out, how the burden of spending is, what is to be admitted. I'll only take one real situation from you. Mr. Cvetkovic, if you want to place yourself over "Maxie", the first charge must be for free. Do you understand that? The second charge goes with a 180-day payment deadline. Now, look at the conditions you've kept in Section 1, which is no doubt proof that the claim is included in the taxpayer's income, that the bonds are written off as incurable and that there is evidence that the court fee has failed. Mr. Cvetkovic, your government was made, among other things, by Miroslav Miskovic. Of course he's comfortable with one of these provisions. You just haven't told us yet how much Mr. Miskovic owes to the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of taxes, contributions, value added taxes, income taxes, sales taxes and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights? How much does he owe, because he's in proportion to your debt and the proportion of your obligations to him and the proposed laws of this kind?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65610	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the SRS Parliament Club can be said to be more technical. Careful reading can show that the solution proposed by the amendment is the following – that all signed, corrected and other claims, which are charged during the calendar year, are considered revenue in that calendar year. The point is, you might say, the same as the proposal's solution, it's just a little more precise. I repeat, the amendment is more technical, but its refusal leads us to the conclusion that the proposing does not read the amendments submitted by the opposition representatives. The explanation that we received from the promoter clearly indicates this. We are well aware that the collection of a large number of claims, whether or not a court case has been initiated for the sake of their collection, takes more than one year. We also know what is the situation in the economy, in the judiciary, and how things are when they come to court and what is the process of proving when it comes to the claims mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65612	Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Mrs. Tabakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65613	Article 4 In fact, the bill regulates the tax base for tax gains, which actually introduces an exception to the rules not to recognise expenditure based on the depravation of property generated during the observed tax period, but only when the property is alienated, used or the damage to property is incurred. The rule is, therefore, that this expenditure is applied to what people who do this business know, cash flow, cash base, which is due to be recognised as a potential capital loss. But your intention is obviously to introduce this new Article 4. The proposal amended, that the confidence of restructure companies should be interested in the restructuring programme and especially through this type of tax incentives. It is not disputed, but in order to prevent the provision of property, the obligor must be prevented from taking advantage of that decoupling and by reducing profits and by reducing this capital loss increase. You shall introduce another exception to Article 5 on how to determine the purchase price of the asset, which shall be prescribed as the purchase price to determine the minimum unrequited value of that asset. We suggest that you extend the fact of this exception not only to those companies that you choose to restructure and which you want to interest your creditors, but to all legal persons who convert their claims into the restructuring process. Not only in the privatisation process, but also on the basis of a financial restructuring contract, so that trustees would be interested in having this contractual financial restructuring done and since you say that this is the reason for proposing these changes, I really don't understand that you write that you refused this amendment. Should only those enterprises in this country that you point your finger to show that they are necessary and that you are interested in? What is that equal approach to the same cases? So the principle of restructuring and this way of exemption must apply to all those entering into this process. What, somebody's not good to you, and that one doesn't have to come back to life and go back to business. Who are we going to charge taxes from? In addition to this, you've had to adopt this, I really urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment, because we've also foreseen mechanisms for the control of these contracts in the restructuring process, so there's no chance of introducing a system of abuse of this double tax avoidance, so to speak. So this can't just apply to the companies that you define, but absolutely to all those that enter into financial restructuring.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65614	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65615	In Article 5. The proposal was envisaged by us to regulate the purchase price of assets acquired by conversion in this claim, and we believe that the exception to the setting of the purchase price, so you only provided there for an exception for the enterprises that are being restructured, and this determination of the purchase price should be extended to companies, all of us, in this case we call them legal persons, although in the Law on Contracting Financial Restructuring, the trusts are primarily banks and debtors of companies. When they conclude a financial restructuring contract, they are called. We propose to this Article 5 to supplement the way in which the purchase price is determined and it is defined as the lowest depreciated value. Since you have already made it possible for the obligor to display impaired assets as expenditure when determining taxable profits. This way it really stops, I said a little bit, double down on the tax base in case we're treating this impaired property. Much more than you yourself, we only made sure that the tax rate, that the budget was not damaged twice, but we made sure that we had the same access to the amendments to all taxpayers, privatisation participants and financial restructuring. This approach of yours continues to say that this government is some mother, and someone really is a stepmom.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65616	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that Article 5(1). The bill is deleted. Namely, the SRS considers it necessary to delete this member because it creates conditions for the hairing of the value of the property in the privatisation process. Experience, Mr. Cvetkovic, which we have in terms of privatisation is more than seriously giving us the right to doubt everything, and above all, these changes and additions look like Mladjan Dinkic. You know, in the IRS, at the National Employment Service who doesn't have his badge, he can't sit. Then, first of all, they throw themselves at these privatisations that didn't work, where they devalued total property, like hyenas and octopuses to rob everyone. They make their people control everything, find out how they like to say it to a strategic partner and normally take one huge piece of cake. You made sure of that yourself. He's been sitting with you for 11 years. Too late, though. After that sweat of yours, and when you kicked him out of the government, he didn't seem to be sitting with you for 11 years. But fortunately, the citizens of Serbia know very well what has been done in these past 11 years, and I think that, first of all, Mladjan Dinkic cannot be taken seriously anymore. Can the budget be charged like that? A short time ago Mr Krasic told you – charge from Miskovic, Dragoljub Markovic, from Beko. President Tadic says there are unseemly wealthy people in Serbia. He suggests he build a bridge and it's called the tycoon Bridge. That'll do with you. They'll all go to jail with us, and they'll be taken away from them. Be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65618	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Mr. Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65619	The amendment to Article 6(1) shall be an essential amendment. I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here. I hope his associates can pass it on. Article 6(1) is amended and reads as follows: "The income obtained by an unresistant legal person from a resilient legal person on the territory of the Republic shall be accounted for and paid by deduction tax, at a rate of 20%, if the international agreement on the avoidance of double taxation is not otherwise arranged. These revenues include: dividends and shares in profits in the legal person, income that represents the difference between the share in the excess of the interest rate of the legal person in bankruptcy, in accordance with the law governing the bankruptcy process and the amount of the capital invested. Income which represents the difference between the share in the liquidation rest after the end of the liquidation of the company, in accordance with the law governing companies and the amount of capital invested, the remuneration on the basis of copyright and related rights and industrial property rights (hereinafter: copyright fee), interest and remuneration on the basis of the lease of immovable property and movable property". The explanation for this amendment: "The solution proposed by this amendment incorporates the suggestions of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia that provisions of the law should not discriminate non-resistant legal persons against legal persons – resilients, when it comes to taxation in the case of the distribution of excess debne bankruptcy, i.e. liquidating the rest after the bankruptcy proceedings have ended, i.e. liquidation. In the proposed way, it is precisely defined that the subject matter of taxation is only a possible difference between these shares and the initial capital invested. Otherwise, there would be unfair treatment of legal persons, unresistance and legal persons – the resistance." So, an amendment that is extremely precise, which is very important for the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate tax. The explanation given by the Government is a fully drawn direction of what is proposed in the text, but it does not critically refer to the part we have proposed, but explains to us why such a proposal is, which is unusual, because I do not see the reasons why this amendment, which is absolutely in line with the complete text and which essentially sets out the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate tax. But what do we expect when the prime minister, a little before the language-based virtual amendment that only specifies a better look and does not accept, cannot expect the government to accept something like this which is essentially a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65620	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65621	Almost all of Article 6, and in particular this attitude 3. we can call this a tycoon attitude. Why tycoon? Because you freed the tycoons from paying all the obligations, don't control their incomes or their payments, etc. Because you can't do that. Now, this is a classic example of how and how you release them from paying interest. You say it like this in paragraph 3. — the deduction tax shall not be paid on income incurred by an uninsured legal person of interest on the basis of debt securities of value in accordance with the law governing the capital market, whose issuer is the Republic, province and local self-government. Here's what we're witnessing. The tycoons were doing business here first, then they founded non-resident legal entities abroad. They avoided paying almost all taxes and contributions. Now you're introducing this position the possibility of a tycoon from abroad buying securities of value at the highest interest rates in Europe, somewhere on the level of 13 and around 14%, depends on the manual and is free from tax. It's a mess. Get rid of this. This argument that you are, rejecting all this government opinion, it's embarrassing. You freed them all. Now this is how you release them. I asked the MP's question to the finance minister and the Prime Minister. How much Miškovic paid on the basis of the sale of Delta Maxi. He promised 120m euros? How much has it been paid so far? Not a single euro. Will it be paid by the end of the year when the obligation on capital gains comes? He won't pay anything. Why are you lying to this people? Why you're picking up that buy was a face. This is fantastic. We'll develop, etc. when we get those funds. Where are those funds?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65622	The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65623	This is the most important amendment that we are submitting to this bill and we believe that it is the essence of it. This kind of tax exemption that taxes per deduction are not paid on income from debt securities that are worth it to non-residents is what I said in the first year they will not be seen as a deficit in the budget, but in the next one they will certainly see. The amendment suggested that only those who make interest on the basis of debt securities issued by local self-government from underdeveloped areas should have such a relief. The only thing that makes sense for these local self-government is to release taxes, the owners of these company securities from value and deny this revenue in the budget. What is most visible in this article of the law? That the government only thinks of itself. You didn't specify an estimate of tax revenue cuts on this basis. Your main interest is to provide your own, not your business, your creditors, and you want what your emergency promotion is to continue to encourage borrowing, above all the state. You wish, although the public debt has reached a critical limit, the country rating has certainly dropped. In fact, you want what is a debt of 497 billion 597 million 918 thousand dinars to ensure that, through the broadcasting of new securities of value, you represent it as a tax relief. And in fact, you owe the citizens extra, you cut budget revenues based on interest incomes to foreigners who would have to be exempt from this income tax in their country, not ours. You're actually making yourself a completely unattractive negotiator for the conclusion of these contracts, because you admit to what kind of extortion you're in. So you're showing that you're a completely unsuccessful government that still has to broadcast securities of value to cover debts. These charters make it attractive to reduce the income tax on interest on the basis of them and releases the parties to this income. I really don't understand how it's possible for us to protect one from taxation instead of his country, or instead of a double tax avoidance contract, and leave the budget with a shortfall for this income. I think this member of the law is the greatest proof of the financial health of this government, but also of your ability to do and use tax incentives for any kind of activity. I sue you with President Tadic, because he warned you that you must invest in the economy, not in debt securities of value. The man tells you nicely, isn't it the government, you can't do this, and now you're also encouraging tax incentives to stimulate the show of securities of value and investment in these funds. This is Mr. Cvetkovic's best proof of your success as a financial expert and the total government you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65624	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? ( No. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65625	Article 6 refers to the procedure for adopting a tax ruling. In order for the pace of making tax solutions to depend on the goodwill of tax officials, we have submitted an amendment suggesting that the tax authority should make a tax collection solution within ten days of the date of receipt of the application. As important as this is, I'll try to illustrate on one case. Some media outlets have announced these days that a tax solution has not been made and delivered to the agency that organised three concerts in Belgrade to Sarajevo singer Dina Merlin. A singer who is known for his good songs but also for his ugly statements about Serbia and the Serbian people. Media reported that he earned more than a million euros in three concerts. I remind you that it's been more than a month since the concerts, and I'm curious to know if this information is correct, that no tax solution has yet been made. In case an amendment to the SRS is accepted, this could no longer happen to such a failure. Of course, the government did not accept this amendment and thus continued a bad practice to reject good amendments just because they were submitted to the SRS. But how do you expect reason and understanding from the government whose biggest result is the opening of folk cuisines in Serbia, and as far as foreign policy is concerned, the biggest result is the signing of an Agreement on the Protection of the Environment with Azerbaijan, a country that is 3,000km away and the signing of an anti-terrorism agreement, against organised crime, against trafficking in people with the Republic of Albania. With a land that lays down organized crime, a litter of international terrorism, drug trafficking, and human trafficking.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65626	The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65627	A little while ago, one of my colleagues said that this member of the 6th tycoon was written for tycoons. I would add that this whole law is tycoon-like and the budget we discussed today. Why? Because it's actually all done by the tycoon government. Let's remind ourselves that in 2008, that you were locked up by tycoons, that this was how the government that no one was living could logically expect. Five billion euros, Mr. Cvetkovic is owed by tycoons in the state register. Five billion euros and you won't hear when we remind you of that. You don't want to answer questions like that. That's why we're listening to Tadic talking about some unspeakable rich people, these are these tycoons who will say they're building a bridge, so they'll call themselves, imagine, a tycoon bridge. But I've got worse than you. Worse are these Nikolics and Vukic's advances, their Joca Amsterdam says as soon as he gets out of prison, he'll be making a bridge where his future hair is, and he expects them to be, they say. So this is really a miracle from the state. You are helped by tycoons, by tycoons and criminals from prison, indeed this people must finally open their eyes and realize that many of you are both both. Of course, you should accept this amendment that we have submitted to this Article 6 because you have put taxpayers in an unequal position with this amendment. In the SRS, we believe it is necessary to account for and charge taxes at a deduction regardless of the situation that the taxpayer has a permanent business unit in the country or acts without a business unit. If you would accept this, then we would also have an answer to the question of colleagues of Dusan Maric - did Dino Merlin pay the state tax?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65628	Time. Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65629	Article 7. The bill speaks of bonds to non-profit organisations and treats their dominant or non-dominant position. We have adjusted the amendments we have proposed to Article 1. The bill and we expanded the scope of the tax exemption by covering both non-profit organisations that have a dominant position. In what way? The lack of existing law is that, on the one hand, it gives tax relief to non-profit organisations for relatively small profits up to 400,000 dinars per year. So it's a surplus of revenue over market expenditure, I stress, since it's invaluable with the fulfilment of additional conditions. In which case, unless a non-performing organisation fulfils the conditions for this tax exemption, it loses any other tax incentives. Given the level of that taxful profit, on the basis of which these organisations are freed, as it is often about public services, where these organisations do not have this dominant position, we suggest that as an exclusive condition, this monopoly position remains. We think that this is simply fair, because this amendment rather than introducing a new category of taxpayers, we introduce such modification and precision of an existing solution that will be much easier to apply and indeed falls under those basic tax rules that every tax is as easy to apply as possible and that it does not disturb the taxpayer in the way of keeping the records, unless there is an adequate amount of new tax revenue in the register. I think this has been a much fairer, easier and more applied solution for you as a government, but also for the taxpayers you treat with this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65630	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65631	On a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, New Serbia has submitted an amendment to delete Article 8. The explanation, the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia, estimated that the solution to Article 8. The bill introduces the tax system of the Republic of Serbia is not in line with best tax practice, and can cause certain losses in tax revenues in the medium term. In the Republic of Serbia, the nominal profit tax rate is practically the lowest in Europe. There are a large number of tax releases and incentives aimed at stimulating investments in manufacturing activity. So the effect of this tax exemption would be very limited. The loss in the budget in the medium term would be greater than any positive effects. That's why we find it unwarranted to introduce this tax exemption. We thought the government would accept the solution proposed by this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65632	The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65633	It's the last amendment we've submitted, where we propose an increase in maximum threatened fines for a taxpayer's legal face. Not only is the penalty currently prescribed small, but the range for this type of offence is insufficient and literally prevents an authority that imposes a penalty to adapt the punishment to the severity of the perpetrator and in some general circumstances which may occur in a specific case. We have suggested that the fine be within the range of 100 to 600,000 dinars, 100 to 1,000 thousand dinars, and in other cases, in item 2, that penalty is not more than 2,500 to 20,000 dinars, but from 10,000 to 100,000 dinars. The existing legislative practice which is otherwise applied to place all violations in the same category, and that the range of penalties is insufficient to make a difference in these offences may lead to some undertakings in a situation where the punishment for one perpetrator, such a offence, is taken into account and the other represents one gross salary of the director. So that's the difference on the ground, and the punishment for the violations is the same. We're coordinating a minimum threatened sentence for a responsible person who's given that minimum fine that can be prescribed by other laws. We believe that one of the fundamental attributes of the state, which is tax collection, can't be this unacceptable way of applying the violations that are made in the false display of data in the tax balance, when a responsible person can be punished by a fine that corresponds to a legal minimum. Should they look up to the government that gives false information about the gross social product, the number of employees. If you do not want to go by yourself and give true information, go from taxpayers and compare the penalty to a false display right in balance sheets, and then in all other business books. Here, we help you to put order into this action, but you're always deaf to the order in the state and interested only in yourself have refused this amendment. May it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65634	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I have suggested that we say "the consumer price index" is replaced by the words "the reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia". Namely, the consumer price index is first mentioned in Serbia in early 2007. The goal of introducing this new index is to show inflation lower, to show it lower than it really is. The calculation of this indicator uses the methodology of the harmonised EU price index. The difference between prices at low and consumer prices is in the product scope of which prices are monitored, as well as the way their weights are calculated. Prices on a small scale, for example, cost of construction material, repromation for agriculture, which does not include consumer prices. In consumer prices, the share of those regulated products is significantly lower and is only 35%. Smaller participation of prices that are under some kind of state control, which are constantly on the rise, such as oil derivatives, traffic services, municipal services, electricity, etc. Here is how in Serbia, in the first quarter of 2007, inflation was presented one way, and in another way, the price index showed little that inflation in Serbia was 1.2%, and the consumer price index was only 0.7%, and that is, the aim and purpose of the Government of Serbia to show inflation less than it is. This is caused by less participation in regulated prices. Another criticism at the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia is because the Republic Statistics Institute has since 1 January not published the price index at a small price. You took a full 12 months, a full year to use the term, or consumer price index, instead of the price for a little bit. Not only within this law, but within the previous dozen laws where you've coordinated these indices. The government needs a full year. What began to apply in early 2007 was the Republic Statistics Institute of 1 January of this year, and it takes the government a full year to introduce the index into this, as well as other laws that were in the previous few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65636	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. And since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on APPROVAL FOR OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL ASSESSMENTS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Tomislav Ljubenović on the draft of the law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the Financial Committee's report. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party MPs to this bill refer to the level of punishment prescribed in case the contributions are not paid in time. We do not propose to abolish the sentence, but we suggest that in this case, the amount does not increase, however much this imposes, and the need to comply with the Law on Infringements. The reasons are simple. The economic crisis has had a negative impact on those who are engaged in autonomous activity. There was no time for this bill to be discussed in principle because it is one of the nine points that have been brought into discussion with the budget. What is most important to point out about the changes and additions made to this bill is that the government has now decided before the elections itself to implement what we, representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, have been talking about for a long time. Now, before the elections themselves, it will cease to be double taxation for women who are engaged in independent activity when they give birth to a child and go to maternity leave, go to hospital for the care of a child, or do special care for a child. It's a rare case, but such cases happen. We've been talking all the time that the parents can't double-tax and tax administrations shouldn't, in their opinion, interpret the provisions of the law. One tax administration interpreted it this way, the other on the other. What happened then? A few months ago, alterations and additions were made, which were called to double the taxation of all births. Now that the election is going, this seems to be the power to present itself in some nicer light. We of the opposition rightly ask if the time before the elections is the only time when any positive solutions are made for all citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65638	Time. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment is the same as the previous one, only applies to natural persons. The SRS proposal is to make an exception and not to increase the amount of fines in case a natural person is late with a payment of contributions. The year 2012 is the year in which the elections await us. As we in the SRS repeat several times, the closer the elections become as if they were opposition. Sometimes our proposal reaches out to them and then presents it as its own, and then it presents itself to the public as fighters for a better life for citizens both at the republican level and at the local level. A decision on contributions to compulsory social security, when it comes to women, representatives who go to maternity leave, Serbian Radical parties proposed when considering changes and additions a few months ago, as you know. The fact that we have proposed our amendments, here, is now that the representatives of the authorities have sent in the form of a law on amendments and additions. The Serbian Radical Party suspects the changes would have occurred if the elections were not on the threshold. A month ago in the Leskovec City Assembly, we had opportunities to listen to stories of sudden concern from those who make up power for employed pregnant women from Leskovec because they do not have the same rights as those in Belgrade. It's about replacing 35% of the salary for pregnant women who receive 65% if they go to sick leave. The minister announced that the law would be amended to receive 100% in all Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65640	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill, both in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Pores Procedure and the Tax Administration You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Dragana Stevanović, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Buha, Vjerica Radeta, Dusan Marić, Nikola Savic, Zoran Popović, Natasa Jovanovic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dobrislav Prelić, Milan Škrbić, Sladjan Mijaljević, Vladan Jeremic, Milan Avramović, Marina Toman, Sreto Perić, Mirko Mirović, Dejan Mirović, Marko Milenković, Milan M. Nikolic, Suzana Grubješić, as well as the amendment of the Government and the amendment which is based on Article 157 of Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65641	We have submitted amendments only to draw attention to some things that are not good in this bill. Mr Cvetkovic, there is a big difference between tax and public income, which I assume is known to you, as there is a big difference between the original and the incomes paid in terms of local self-government units and the original revenues of the Republic of Serbia. This article concerns the jurisdiction of the tax administration, the areas in which they are responsible, however, given the urgent change in the Law on the financing of local self-government and the fact that the salary tax is divided in some way, I must draw your attention to the fact that you lost sight of that fact when you wrote the text of this article, because you will see how many problems will be in practice. There'll be big problems in practice. I do not dispute the fact that part of some income can be the income of a local self-government unit, but to be original in all respects of what it means to be original and to be full of jurisdiction and a first-degree and second-degree body at the level of the local self-government unit, excuse me, please, it is a retrograde process, it has nothing to do with decentralisation, it has nothing to do with fiscal reform, it is simply a systemic failure that will be hit on the head of the tax administration and the total public revenues both the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the unit of local self-government. Someone obviously cheated on you when he suggested that you carry out a kind of division of jurisdiction between the tax authorities at the level of the Republic and the new tax authorities that should be created at the level of units of local self-government. This is the opposite of something that Bozidar Djelic established 10 years ago by reforming the tax system in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65642	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65643	Article 3 You have provided for the bill the following – the tax administration can quarterlyally cut the balance on the last day of the last month of the quarter on the tax administration's website to publish a notice on the tax debt of all taxpayers, thus the obligation to keep the official secret is not damaged. We suggested that it was binding and that the tax administration had to publish it. In response, you say it's the discretionary right of the tax administration, and we say it can't be discretionary. Public income must be made public. You keep talking – transparently. Isn't this transparent? This is public income, the arrival of the country etc. This is a tycoon member again because you're protecting tycoons. The Serbian Radical Party has been saying for a year that tycoons do not pay taxes and contributions, it has reached seven billion euros. It's almost at budget level. You're still avoiding it. With this you now cover yourself, you put it in the discretionary right of the tax administration, which directly helps those who do not pay. On the other hand, other legal changes force the poor, the social, refugees, internally displaced persons, people who are without income on forced payment, and you will do so, but if they are tycoons, then there is no. I will take the opportunity, here is the prime minister, I asked a parliamentary question a month and a half ago what are the obligations of Miskovic that are not met by taxes, contributions, fees, taxis and all that I didn't get the answer, and I also warn the President of the Assembly, since you are obliged to inform us, what has been done, what has been done? I didn't get an answer from either of you or the Prime Minister. You cover those who don't pay what's harmful...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65644	Time. Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65645	I'm applying, but something's gotten tired of your system, this Micunovic. (President: The fatigue is only with you. The rest of them work well. ) In Article 4 relating to Article 10, you are talking about the tax legal relationship and when legal persons can refute taxes. You say, if the persons referred to in Article 2 are defined for the refund of more or more wrongly charged tax, i.e. the parallel tax duties, as well as for the refund, or the refund of taxes, or for the settlement of the obligations due on the second basis by means of a tax rewriting, the tax administration shall have an obligation to submit a solution without delay, and no later than 15 days from the date of receipt, if the tax law is not otherwise regulated. We think that instead, if the tax law is not otherwise arranged, it should be put in another law. Because we in the SRS feel it is necessary to carry out a legal technical order and to supplement this legal formulation with our proposed text, because this really leads to an improvement in the text of the law and which is more fully resolved than is provided for in Article 10, or Article 4. A bill of this law. You're here stating that it wouldn't be good because then in that way, you say, this could be regulated by a law that's not tax and that would lead to a breach of the transparency of the tax-law system as a single continent. So what transparency are you talking about when the tycoons owe you five billion euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65646	Time. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65647	Ladies and gentlemen, the government suggests that a tax non-tax resident who does not have a tax attorney is not required to file a tax return. We have submitted an amendment suggesting that the tax non-resident is obliged to file a tax return, whether he had a tax attorney or not. The government says in its argument that it would increase tax revenues, provided that all these solutions are applied in practice, that the effects of the law are 100%, that it will bring a few tens of thousands of euros to the Serbian budget, and on the other hand, the state does not apply already existing laws or apply them selectively and thus, as we have heard, it loses billions of euros on the basis of unpaid tax. We heard, the state is asking for a total of seven billion euros from legal and natural persons. Of these, five billion euros are required by 17 of the richest people in the Republic of Serbia. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is 8.5 billion euros. Another 1.5 billion is about the end of the government's mandate, and they will push about to have a tax debt equal to the state budget. It happens in a country that has a million unemployed, 700 thousand people living below the poverty line, has nothing to eat, 70,000 people who survive in the popular cuisine, 400,000 people who don't have a roof over their heads, in a country where citizens can get through the winter of wood buy on logs. On a daily basis, you have a report from individual places that wood citizens buy in bags, per kilogram, and on the other hand, the government allows its tycoons to owe the state five billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65648	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65649	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you're a little tired. You read Croatian National. That's not true, that's what you did a while ago. What are we looking for, Mr. Cvetkovic? We ask that Article 10 be deleted, and that applies to Article 26. You see, the FIB gets a legal face, a natural person, an entrepreneur, and in Section 2, you say it can't be assigned to a PIB legal person whose founder, so these persons are listed, whose founder has not settled his obligations to the state. You've had enough of this formulation. Why did you go into these tiny intestines here? If you went this way – entrepreneur, physical person, and you put more – created in connection with the performance. But in point one, you have no action. This just proves that this is actually a law that should allow companies to be shut down, entrepreneurs shut down to survive just tycoons. This is the worst law to happen to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have any thought of economic activity. This fits the EU project. Nothing must be produced in Serbia, so that the EU, which is present with its products here, is not competing. Here are a few examples of tax regulations suffocating life. Why doesn't the state meet its obligations to the citizens, to the economy? No, but that's why every citizen, every legal person has to take priority of fulfilling their obligations to the state, and it's insecure. It allows this law, because we'll have tax administrations at all levels, and if you're good, we'll see right through your fingers, if we think you have or you're politically intruding, you're closed. There'll be locks...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65650	Time. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65651	Article 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in Article 4 regulates the question of who decides on the refusal of a request for the allocation of the PIB, i.e. the withdrawal of the already allocated PIB. Here you predict that, in these two situations, the ministers decide on a proposal from a commission that you will educate only for that purpose. The Serbian Radical Party resolutely opposes the unnecessary formation of such committees, committees, agencies, etc., especially where it is absolutely unnecessary and where such demands are already decided by the minister. Do you think that the state of Serbia is so rich that in addition to 130 agencies, there are dozens of different commissions in which employees are paid fat? In a situation where you have brought the country to ruin, in a situation where over a million citizens are at the poverty line, when more and more workers are out of work, when young people have nowhere to work and when every day there are more and more hungry people, you form another commission. The question arises – what will be her task? If it justifies the purpose of its existence, if it only has to tell the Minister who is to be rejected for the allocation of the FIB on the basis of the attached documentation, that is to be taken away from the already assigned FIB. Is this a serious job or is it just a matter of biting party personnel on the same scenario we've been seeing for years when we form hundreds of agencies, committees and commissions? This commission is unnecessary and therefore my amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65652	The 11th member of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65653	Mr. Cvetkovic, banks are institutions where payment is being made. However, you are now allowing them to permit or not to allow, under certain conditions, and will not allow under other conditions. The banks aren't authorized to do that. Of course, it is about paying obligations based on taxes and contributions to compulsory social security. Then we'll have a situation that practically the state gives up its income and that they'll decide the business banks, Raiffeisen, etc. and some other banks. Mr Cvetkovic, I would suggest that, given that the destruction should be 100%, that you add this member to the obligation to pay for water, electricity, telephones, utility services, so that in two, three positions of this Article 30a, divide the first order of obligations, second row obligations, and then if he remains something legal or entrepreneur on the account, let it go for his personal consumption, since in the next stage, if you don't God be Prime Minister, we'll get a clean air excise. Please, where is this? In which country on a globe depends on one bank whether an entrepreneur or a legal person will pay off the profits of their employees who have worked? Do you know what human rights are? Who can deny the right to earn a man who's been working all month? You make people stay in even bigger kitchens or make sure when they're going through containers, because they're tall, they don't fall into a container and they can't get out of there. You are the protagonist of politics to destroy economic life in the Republic of Serbia, and Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who is extremely nervous, is also very helpful. Why is she nervous? She's nervous that this needs to be over as soon as possible, so she can register another successful year to come and praise Mrs. Angela Markel or who knows which hoistupler from Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65654	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65655	Like counterpart Krasic, I am absolutely against it and the SRS is against the banks doing any kind of control. You left everything to the banks. Here's another way for the banks to take and launder money and to exercise control and discretionary rights, they won't allow one another. When you introduced the central register, you said -- here we are now finishing the procedure, no more tax and no more contributions, now that you're getting into the central register, it's all over. And what was it? Nothing. You don't get paid again. It's not that you don't pay, it's that you don't create conditions for businesses that they can pay. You don't create conditions that this economy is liquid and that's why you avoid it. Who's been in control so far? Tax administration. And why isn't he doing it? Why do we have at the end of 2010 about 60 – 70,000 blocked, with the largest number blocked because of tax evasion and contributions? The total value at the end of 2010 was about 600 billion dinars. Now it must be 700 billion. Seven hundred billion tycoons, mostly tycoons, owe you 700 billion, etc. Huge funds, and now you're going to let the banks control them. In order to control, you have to pay them the entire monitoring system, you have to train the workers, you have to create preconditions for them not to waste their valuable time, because they are there to collect profits, not to make sure that they are properly charged or not charged, whether it is calculated or not, etc. It'll charge fat and fat. Why do you beat them with this kind of income? Harmful, harmful and irresponsible. You talk about it and you say: "The banks will not." The banks will, why wouldn't they do that if you let them?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65656	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 11th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance. The 12th amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65657	Not currently Mr. Cvetkovic in the O.R., Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, since the time you were the opposition, this is an even worse Law on Tax Procedure and Administration. Since 2002, Serbian citizens have suffered the terror of the DS and its coalition partners. I have to remind you that this law was established in such a way that it was foreseen at the time, and later they had little mercy to delete it from the law, that tax officials could go in at night, and it was envisaged that they could carry guns with taxpayers at home, but now it is absolutely clear that you are doing it the other way, and in these tycoons and criminals who finance, first of all, both the government of Nikolic and Vucic's party, you must neither call the phone nor the director of the Tax Administration of Serbia, and also the prime minister himself, their debts to the state are huge. How many foreign banks rob the state as far as we were right when we said that this law must follow the law on NBS and the Law on Securities of Values, says the fact, and there is a lady from the Ministry of Finance, that these banks are making money based on a course that is much larger in Serbia, and they are expensive for us because they came here to do business on domestic terms, and on much more expensive conditions to sell us money. I'm going because of the citizens of Serbia, because it's probably what people are following today, who are going to the exchange offices and who have to pay for the loans that these banks are stealing from. The exchange rate of the euro on today is – 100,0885, which is the one that the bank pays, is medium – 102,6549 and sold – 105,213. So, citizens of Serbia who are over-indebted and who have been forced to borrow credit from these bank robbers under such abnormal interest, and you will not accept the SRS proposal to make extra taxes, like in some countries, and to pay for so expensively selling money. Citizens have to pay credit on this highest rate, and when they take, or when they deposit, the bank pays them at least. Therefore, it is obvious that this policy of the government and the Ministry of Robbery is going to the hands of the tycoon and the banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65658	Time. Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS, believe me, I expected you to reject it, with the desire to explain to the citizens what DOS policy has been like since 2000, not to allow the guarantee to give a second economic person. I can't believe after 11 years of your phenomenal privatisation came from the back of your head. Let me give you a specific example. The first company that your protected witness, Mile Jerkovic, has bought from the Shiptarian mobsters. Then, as collateral, he gave that company for another. Among other things, he bought a lot of agricultural enterprises, a lot of traffic companies. He provided guarantees, normally from previous companies that he bought, which had a tender value of 2m euros, and the bank recognised guarantees, by whose order we do not know, of, say, sevenm euros. Now you remember this. Among other things, one privatisation was for Saric's money, remember? It's been established. But you have to imagine. Tomislav Nikolic has already said that Saric, and he is making his new cabinet, will be his youth and sports minister. The SRS has certainly succeeded in its mission, or MPs in this mandate. Today, 92% of Serbian citizens are against the NATO Pact and 75% of citizens are against joining the EU. We've done our duty. It is certainly 95% of citizens for Vojislav Seselj to return to Serbia and be the president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65660	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 21. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65661	You have made it possible for taxpayers who have concluded a financial restructuring contract, which is said to have – a law governing the contractual financial restructuring of companies, will grant a postponement of payment of the budget debt in equal wars up to 60 months, with the possibility of using delayed payments for the first 12 months. Because of the citizens, we have to explain that this institute is new, we got it six months ago, financial restructuring -- who's doing the financial restructuring? You said at least two banks, and maybe even a foreign bank, maybe one that doesn't have a seat here, etc. He can do anything. He can't. Why? He can't by the law of banks and he can't by the party bank. We told you about it, and you didn't accept it. What kind of practice do we have? No foreign bank will enter here because you broke the system. We don't have a business. But let's get back to a specific case. When a financial restructuring contract is actually made and the bank provides liquid assets and creates preconditions, some credit lines to the economic operator, why would the state now lend a financial loan, i.e. tax credit? Why? So, that legal person, the company, got sound resources and can settle its taxes and other obligations neatly. There's no need for states, which are usually thin in revenue, to stretch it to 60 months, even say 12 months of grace period in terms of reconciliation of commitments. It's very harmful and unacceptable. If the way I put it, you're looking at the situation, that's it. But apparently you've been squeezed on some side, some lobbies again...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65662	Time. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65663	This is a new member of 74b. It almost doesn't matter what attitude it is. But there are only covers in the Financial Restructuring Act, which is quite problematic. However, Mr. Cvetkovic, there is a kind of dialectic between the tax debt and the first member I told you about, public income. It's going to be a very interesting situation. There will be a very interesting situation in the application of this law following these changes and additions, both in terms of natural persons and in terms of legal persons, companies, and in particular in relation to the particular conflict of jurisdiction between the tax authorities of local self-government units and tax administrations. This will further complicate, because in all the provisions of this law you have not implemented a change, a public income, you have already kept what is nominally referred to as tax. You will see what problems will be, that this law will be inapplicable, and that is why you have submitted certain amendments, according to the system – this bill scares voters, but we also comfort them, in six months the application is delayed. If you win, then you'll put all this out of your hands. I'm just warning you, you've been painting for nothing. Because when local self-government gets hold of these changes and additions, and the tax procedure provisions of this law are procedural provisions which oblige the competent authorities of the local self-government unit to collect the revenues of local self-government units, you will see what kind of dance will be from local administration unit to local self-government unit and you will see that in many municipalities instead of water in fountains there will be antifreeze.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65664	Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65665	This Member, in particular this Article 4(s) of Article 22 or the new Article 74b. Whose erasure we've suggested is very, very dangerous. He's talking about the approval of postponing the tax debt. In this position, you say who can postpone paying the tax debt. You've closed a nice rabbit to keep the cabbage. Who can delay paying the tax debt? The minister or the mayor? Now imagine specific situations. Mr Cvetkovic, as former partner to Mr Vlahovic, now the minister, he tycoon, would you and under what conditions delay the payment of the tax debt? Imagine the situation that Gilas as mayor should decide whether to postpone Shaper's debt payment. Or imagine the situation that Tadic and Nikolic together should decide to postpone the payment of the debt to Miskovic. Or, let's say that Vukic, God forbid, he's some minister and he decides to postpone the debt to Joca Amsterdam, because he's going to let him out of prison to build a bridge, that's what he said, or Peconia. Or, for example, that Tomislav Nikolic, God forbid, is in a situation that he can decide on postponing Milan Bek's tax debt. Or, for example, Nikolic's son, Radomir, in Kragujevac, can decide, like God's mayor, whether to postpone the tax debt of the Kings that the SNS is otherwise financing in Shumadia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65666	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65667	According to the government's proposal, it is not clear whether the forced collection will be excluded and the income of a taxpayer who is already exempt from execution by a court ruling. We have submitted an amendment that fully explains this misunderstanding. Continuing the presentation of my colleagues, I ask the question – how is it possible for the state of tax procedure to implement against citizens and economic operators on the edge of existence, according to poverty, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the same tax laws do not apply to tycoons that have billions of euros? I ask one question about this law – is the tax procedure implemented and are taxes charged to companies owned and co-owner of Dragjana Radonjic-Petrovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy? It was reported yesterday by the newspaper that the co-owner of 36 companies and banks, together with Beko, participated in the privatisation of "Luke Belgrade" and "Evening news", and that only one company, founded with Miodrag Kostic, was introduced by the former DS director by five million 407,000 and 317 euros? I understand where she got these five million and 407 grand, and I don't know where she got these 317? The lady is normally in charge of developing small and medium-sized enterprises at the Ministry, and there appear to be 36 of her own companies. For every year of life, one company at a time. I am now interested in how is it possible in Serbia that various Hamovici, Miskovici, Lazarevici, Kostici, Draculai, Popovici, Matici, Peconi, have property worth billions of euros? Where did they get that property? The only answer - state, ruling party, DS and G 17 enabled them... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65668	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65669	I have submitted an amendment to delete the "retirement" in article 29. For the SRS, it is unacceptable for the forced collection of taxes and other tax duties to be made out of pensions and other social benefits. The objective of the amendment is to improve the law. I know you're aware that there are pensions and pensions, or misery, pensions and pensions. You could have made that division and some kind of graduation. The answer I received is indeed frantic, says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the possibility of temporary retirement is contained in a law governing enforcement and security, so that the law allows a certain amount of pension to be carried out for forced collection of claims from private-legislative relations. It's really illogical, because it's amazing that the people you've humiliated economically, the poor, you've brought to ruin, that you've put them in a position to receive pensions of two, three thousand dinars, now you're asking them to collect something. I don't know if this is an extension of some 1946, 1947 or 1948 – take everything the government gives you. If you charge for once, twice or three times, what will you charge for the fifth or sixth time? Will you take their life? Because of your inability to fix the economic situation, to have something to pay for, you now want to do the principle – if you have no money to pay the bill for electricity, sell the apartment, now next to the apartment will sell yourself. This is really more than embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65670	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65671	It is a formal-legal amendment that is proposed by "other tax duties" in Article 31 instead of "sequential taxation". This very wording of "sequential taxation" is inadmissible to me and should be replaced. If we say "sequential to each other", then we make two classes, two types of taxes, one that are very important to us and the other that are secondary to us. If these are the main public revenues, and these side public revenues, or other taxes, they are even. Tax is tax. Tax giving is tax giving. It can't be main or secondary. We've put this amendment in that direction. In answer, you say this - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the law does not contain the concept of other tax duties, so accepting the amendment would lead to ambiguity on the other tax issues, which, besides taxes, could necessarily be charged for profits, wages, or pensions. It's important to you to install an emergency payment. What kind of termology is it gonna be? It doesn't matter. If someone had read this amendment and the explanation of this amendment, they probably wouldn't have... If you said side-by-side, and we say -- don't side-by-side, because it's alluding to something that isn't legally mature, it's not acceptable, it's not whole-out, we suggest the other one, we even this main one and this other one, you say -- there's nothing in the law, we reject the amendment. See for yourself how absurd it is that you don't read. You haven't read too much. If you'd read it, you'd probably have accepted this amendment. There are several such amendments, and you still have plenty of time to make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65672	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65673	Mr. Cvetkovic, you're a doctor of economic science, but you get the impression that what Dr means is you're a doctor. You can't appeal to the law on enforcement and security, because under that law, enforcement is carried out in judicial judgments, and all that lies before courts, it's a private legal relationship. The tax procedure is a public legal relationship, Mr. Cvetkovic. That's a big difference. You know? So far in our legal system, why wasn't the mandatory enforcement of taxes on profits, wages and pensions, but now you're putting it in? What right are you now insinuating? Oh, my God, Mr. Cvetkovic! So, for the public to know, PUPS didn't submit an amendment to stop the forced execution for retirement tax, Krpić. You represent the pensioners? You don't care about pensioners. This is where you create an imaginary image of 126, perceptions of 126. Look at them, they chat, they don't care where they're going for New Year's Eve. Thank you. I hope I don't go in your gang tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65674	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65675	Mr. Cvetkovic, when you were born, the midwife came and said, "This kid will be prime minister," and you really became that, but no one told you you were right, in fact, and the obligation sometimes to adopt some amendment. Here, Mr. Krasic started a little bit about it. With this amendment, we will not allow you to destroy even more vulnerable pensioners. You're saying a tax procedure can be charged on everything. Well, it's not possible, for reasons I can't physically. You know, I had a chance a few days ago to talk to a woman who worked full-time and had an increase in pensions for the last 200 dinars. She welcomed you, she says, and welcome Jovan Krkobbic and welcome the Prime Minister, and let them see what they are doing. We do not allow you this way through this amendment to do so, not only to the pensioners, but to any citizen, any category. Even here in reason for not accepting the amendments you say – the obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is general and is based on the economic power of Serbian citizens. You are referring to the Constitution, as it is not possible for the amendment to be accepted, and we are showing you that it is possible. What's said according to the possibilities of the debtors, that's why we don't allow you to rob pensioners in these ways. Do you know that now some, who don't have the opportunity to fill their work hours, have to buy out two, three, four or five years, which they can do in such a way as to raise their loans and pay off those funds that they've paid to get the right to retire. Because this authority, not only you, Mr Cvetkovic, but everyone before you in the last ten years, has not allowed the citizens of Serbia to exercise their basic right to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65676	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65677	As much as this authority is an octopus, it does show this Article 31. But an octopus only when it comes to citizens of Serbia, and in this case, pensioners. When it comes to Miskovic, of course not. He can owe the state five billion euros, but if a pensioner owes five dinars, fifty, five hundred dinars, well, he's the second architect. Even if it was the pensioners with the lowest incomes, with the incomes of five, ten to 15 thousand dinars. In Article 31, you have suggested that Article 96a be added to the basic law, where Article 96a provides for what will happen if the payer of the pension is not suspended in the event of an emergency pension payment. Then you predicted it would be done from the payer's account. But of course the payer isn't crazy not to pay off this, he won't let his bill be paid off and normally that forced payment will be made out of retirement in that case. So you want to take the pensioners' last penny from that church you give him as a pension. Here you send a clear message to the pensioners – the state will necessarily pay you a forced pension payment. From forced payment, pensioners, you can't save yourself in any way, even if your pension was, I say, ten to fifteen thousand dinars. So the state sends pensioners a clear message and says – if you owe the state, this power will take away your last penny, not considering that your pension is below the poverty line. So, pensioners, be very careful with this authority. They want to take away that little church girl you're taking as your pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65678	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted concerns the exemption of pensioners from the forced collection of taxes from their otherwise modest and insufficient pensions. Imagine people with a pension of 8,400 dinars, and by last month it was 7,800, to which you have to make a forced payment, and those from the entire income can't scrape for two, let alone three meals a day. And where are the communals, electricity, clothes, shoes? Where are their grandkids supposed to pay some money? These people have built this society, this country, they've been devoting themselves, and now that things are no longer capable of doing things by nature, you'd be kidnapping them. You're saying Mr. Cvetkovic's government is socially just. It consists of socialists, a hero of social struggle - Dusan Bajatovic, over a million and a half dinars per month. The government especially needs to worry about pensioners, sitting in Krkobici who would like to save the budget on the back of pensioners, so that more of their miserable little pensions and other social benefits are forced to pay taxes. You say the government is economically prosperous, at least you promised it in an election campaign, and it has G17 personnel, destroyers of the Serbian economy, Serbian banks and health institutions. Surely this amendment should be accepted, if you want to send a message and the pensioners may believe that this is a European government, with democratic principles. In the government sits DS personnel who, fired from work, empty stomachs and pockets, lead us to an EU that is falling apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65680	On Article 49 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet submitted. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65681	This amendment that we have submitted to Article 49 is a legal-technical order, because when you read the line 3 that we have proposed to change, it sounds very ghastly. I'm surprised you didn't accept that. You're talking about banks that are taxed and side taxed, for which payment security has been established, etc. Somehow, it's not good that the law says "sequential", especially if you don't know what the main one is, so our proposal was to write down instead of saying "sequential tax" the "other tax fee". What's interesting and what again points to another comment is your explanation. I assume you are tired of the amendments to the SRS, and then you said you did not accept the amendment to Article 49 for the same reasons for which you did not accept the amendment of Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 17. When you read that, then you can see that you do not accept the amendment because the law does not contain the concept of other tax duties. This is real to cross a man. It doesn't contain, and that's why we suggested it contains, instead of being "another tax payment". You're saying that accepting the amendment would lead to a misunderstanding on what tax duties banks would be obliged to transfer from the taxpayer's account to a prescribed public income payment account in the payment process. So this is what we've been talking about all along in the context of the amendment debate on this bill, why you've got banks involved in this business, is it because of Djelic...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65682	Thank you. The 5rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan M Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65683	In the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I submitted an amendment to article 53 with a request to delete it. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to delete the member, as it is unacceptable to pay and tax control and to contribute to the bank. It all went wrong with the DOS abolishing the SDK service, which was a well-organized system with professional personnel who knew their job. However, payment traffic has been transferred to banks that are now, as we already know, 100% foreign. Tax and contribution control is now proposed, with an explanation of better efficiency, but also an increase in fees to banks. However, control and accountability will remain in the IRS, according to the prime minister two days ago. The Director of the Tax Administration declares that the Tax Administration will not pay any compensation to banks, but will help them by doing the software they will use in the business, and the commission will be paid by employers. It is true that somewhere around 317 billion unpaid taxes and obligations, as well as that 9,000 misappropriations have been filed standing somewhere in drawers. Tax administration is not to blame for everything, and it needs more investment and greater importance. However, there is no political will to do the job properly. The tax administration's failure to collect taxes and contributions from many employers is the indifference and poor business of the same. We know what our economic situation is, more and more economic operators are shutting down, more and more workers are out of work. The most common model of avoiding payment of these fiscal commitments is hand-to-hand payments and working on black. The banks can't control it, and the IRS has the resources and knowledge to control payments, and the employers are obliged to file taxes...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65684	Thank you. The 53rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear People's MPs, we have completed a search on all amendments, so I conclude a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Obligation Security in SANOVAJ You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dusan Marić, Vlad Milojković, Zoran Popović, Nikola Savic, Milan Avramović and Radiša Ilic. You received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the Financial Committee's report. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65685	Ladies and gentlemen, according to current law, and even under this bill, the right to compensation for car liability insurance does not have a person who suffered damage due to the fact of nuclear energy during the transport of nuclear material, and according to this supplement of the law, it will not have a face that suffered the damage due to the fact of the dangerous burden during his transport. The government argues that those persons are entitled to compensation for damages on the basis of mandatory insurance of the transport of dangerous cargo. On the other hand, in the SRS, we believe that persons affected by such an accident should be compensated on one and another basis. In the draft law, the government calls for EU regulation and standards. Otherwise, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and this authority will remain remembered for applying European regulations and standards only in those cases where citizens are bound to the state, but cannot apply them and vice versa, when it comes to the obligations of the state to the citizens. We under Tadic and Dinkic have European regulations, Asian law and African standards, but what better to expect from the government that plans to spend 390m euros next year on some specialised services, 100m euros on travel expenses, 22m euros on various NGOs. For 100m euros, Mr Cvetkovic, how much you will spend on travel, 50,000 single-room apartments can be built inside Serbia. Now you think, as host man, Serb, patriot, is it more beneficial that at the end of next year we have 50,000 apartments or that you have 500 missed official trips? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65686	The People's MP, Vlad Milojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65687	In Article 3. I asked the insurance company to pay 7%, instead of 5%, of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I believe that the amount of 7% of the gross premium of insurance is far more adequate and the amount that society would pay to the health fund, for several reasons. The Republic Health Insurance Fund is in a very difficult situation. Your tycoons friends, who also participated in the formation of this government, besides not paying contributions to pension and disability insurance, very often, until someone gets sick, don't even pay for compulsory health insurance. It is easiest for you to try to charge the fund by constantly increasing the number of medicines patients have to pay for themselves, instead of solving this problem by introducing order in the area of payment of health insurance contributions and, on the other hand, increasing the rate of gross insurance premium to 7%, as requested by the amendment. It's clear to both of you that you and we have a blockade on both grounds. One block is from tycoons you can't stand up to, and another block comes from a number of foreign insurance companies that have a hard time explaining that they have to pay this 5%, as you have foreseen this bill, let alone 7%, as I asked for it with the amendment. If you sincerely want better charge of the Republic Health Fund and if it is in your best interest to have a healthier nation, I suggest you accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65688	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65689	The government is proposing a legal solution in the work concerning aviation insurance, which reads: "the departure from EU territory, or the territory of the Republic of Serbia. "For us from the SRS, it is absolutely unacceptable that domestic legislation is essentially whether, whether symbolically, it favours any foreign state, any international organisation, especially an organisation whose membership is not the Republic of Serbia, compared to the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that Serbia, fortunately, is not an EU member and that, given the fact that 65% of citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not want to hear about the EU, it will never enter into the membership of this semi-destructed country. As long as Serbia is not an EU member, it is not normal for the legal solutions you propose to find a solution in which you give priority to the EU in relation to your own country. However, it is obviously much more important to you that these laws and arguments of the law be liked by these from the EU than by the MPs of the Serbian parliament, by the MPs of their own state. We have a law here that you've placed on a sheet of paper. You spent two on writing the arguments, and on a statement on the compliance of these legal solutions with the EU rules, three sheets of paper. It is small, but symbolically speaking the government's relationship both according to its own laws and towards the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65690	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65691	Article 7 provides that the amount of the insurance company's contribution is to be expressed in relation to the total insurance premium in the previous calendar year. The government proposed a new legal solution to show the amount relative to the premiums paid in the previous month. We have submitted an amendment suggesting that this new legal solution be deleted, that the old legal solution remain, because we consider it both simpler and fairer. Simpler because the amount of the premium is calculated once a year, and more realistic and fairer because the average calculated on an annual basis is always more realistic and fairer than the average calculated on a monthly basis. The next thing I want to know about this insurance is whether this law will apply to KIM, to the vehicles of Serbs with KIM? Your answer will be yes. If so, I ask the question and ask why, two days ago, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbs from Kosovo, when moving to the territory of the so-called country. Serbia's rope, they have to pay 60 euros. Another thing I'm curious about, on what grounds will car insurance in Belgrade be related to the damage to KIM, for example in Gorazdevec? Thirdly, will the insurance companies act at certain damages and accidents, according to reports made up by members of the Kosovo police? Of course he will. Mr Cvetkovic, I believe that you owe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs of parliament the answers to these questions in order to vote against this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65692	After we've completed our search of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milorad Buha, Dusan Maric and Momir Markovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65693	You have provided for the financing of construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads from the following sources – compensation for the use of the public road, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, financial loans, the investment of domestic and foreign persons and other sources. For the SRS, funding from all these sources is unacceptable under these conditions. Given the circumstances that we recently passed the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, it would be appropriate to mean within the framework but only within this point 4 investment by domestic and foreign persons to be made out of that source, but only certain, means building. Compensation for the use of public roads is possible in the construction and maintenance of public roads. It's impossible from the budget right now, but all of this is possible for you. Why is it impossible? It is impossible because our debts, our obligations to foreign investors, according to domestic banks, according to sales records of value, are huge other legal separations that have been defined by law and are unacceptable in such a tight budget with a huge deficit to create an even greater deficit. Public debt, we know that now, no matter what the government says is 45%, has long gone beyond that amount. Since we're still in debt, since we're still giving guarantees, and so on, it's all going to go to 50, 60, and who knows where. That's why we asked to delete this. You have the Law on Public Private Partnership, advertise, give conditions, open competitions, give the possibility of concessions. All the normal states in Europe and the world have done it the following way. Concession, public private partnership and private...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65694	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65695	We believe that this Article 2 is bad, that it does not bring any improvement in the field of public roads, so we have suggested that it be deleted as well as the erasure of the other members. We have roads that objectively endanger traffic safety by their poor quality. On the other hand, we have the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia has committed 6,626,000,000 euros in the past four years, of which 1,581,280,000 euros in debt has been taken to build roads. This means that Prime Minister Cvetkovic and his ministers owed Serbia 5,238,690 euros each day, and our public roads are in desperate shape. Each of Serbia's 7,120,666 citizens, including newly-born children, has been charged by the government with 930 euros each, and roads in the Republic of Serbia remain in desperate condition. Each of Serbia's 2,497,187 households, the government tasked four years with 2,653 euros each, and public roads in Serbia in a catastrophic state. If we share these 6,626,942,000 euros with members of the government, we get the result that every minister in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic has owed his country 331,347,000 euros in four years, and we have roads, in particular, on the Belgrade-Zagreb highway, where concrete pieces fall off the overpass. I'm just warning you that this is the way you intend to get to your friends in Zagreb and your friends in Brussels in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65696	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65697	This is the third and last member of this law we've asked for, we haven't asked for the other members. The reason why this law is proposed, says - the adoption of this law by emergency procedure for reasons that its non-adjudication could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. Let us see how this will cause harmful consequences for the work of organs and organizations. Let me remind you, Mr. Cvetkovic, in 2009, that is, in 2008, you brought in a regulation whereby the excise duty was on oil and oil derivatives and liquid and oil gas 15%, and then 20%. These funds were divided by 20% of these funds collected during the year going public ways for maintenance, security, repair, etc. Since you will not be able to fill this budget as much as you planned, it has come to you so conveniently that out of these 20% of the funds allocated to the Public Business Roads of Serbia for maintenance, you take 10%, and those 10%, or you plan 93 billion to raise funds, 18 billion and 600 were meant to be public roads, and 9 billion and 300 you take to them like this, and those other 9 billion will be given to them in the form of subsidies. Look, please. There is no reduction in the harrass which is burdened by the citizens of Serbia. Here it reduces what should be given to Serbian Ways to maintain these roads, to how we go. Given the financial situation that will prevail in 2012, you are looking for some additional sources because it is unlikely that Serbian citizens will be able to spend this much money on fuel.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65698	Thank you. As Mr Markovic said in this amendment, by discussing this amendment, we have actually completed a review of the bill in particular. I am concluding a review of the proposal in particular, and since we have carried out a search of the draft law in the principles and details of the National Assembly in the voting day, they will decide on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 9th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Security on Roads You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljević, Milet Poscura, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Milan Avramović, Dušan Marjic, Radiša Ilic, Momir Marković, Vitomir Plović, Vito Miražarić, Mira Dragarić and Mira Mira Draga Mira Mira Mira Mira Mira Mira Mira, Mirić. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added in front of article 1. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted, and Mr. Mica wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65699	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to have time and I am of the opinion that this point should not have been in the context of a joint investigation, or a united debate on all these points. Thanks to the understanding of colleagues who have explained today and the draft law on the budgetary system in 2012 in front of the SNS, I will have enough time to devote such important changes and the addition of the Transport Safety Act and that what we have previously pointed out, and we have had more opportunities here in Parliament to discuss it, to try and convince the Prime Minister this time, but I would prefer that the Minister of Infrastructure is present, because I think this is his area and, respecting the Prime Minister, to accept some arguments that the SNS has tried to explain tonight. As regards the submission of the amendment to Article 9, it is the Agency for Traffic. We believe that Article 9, because of citizens, if they are watching this transfer, it is prescribed that the Agency for the Security of Traffic and Jobs to be established as entrusted businesses. Item 3, of the same Article 9, stipulates that the Agency can trust other legal persons with these tasks. When the law was in the process, in the debate, we said we were still behind that attitude and we thought these jobs should be done by the Ministry of Traffic. In this case, the Ministry of Infrastructure. For the sake of the public, to remind the ministry that it still has its own organs, and that earlier in September 2010, this agency was founded, and when you enter the site of the said ministry, you have roads and traffic security sectors, Dragan Jovanovic, assistant road and traffic security ministers. At the same time we have since September 2010, an agency that deals with these same jobs has been formed and therefore we find it unacceptable that agencies are entrusted with jobs and that the resolution sector in the ministry continues to have these responsibilities and to deal with these affairs. The government's policy, through the example of this case, was continued to trust the public administration's affairs, I can't remember now, but it seems to me that three years ago the number of these agencies was about 105. Question -- how many are there? I say, Mr. Prime Minister, it would be important if the Minister of Infrastructure were present here. The Law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on Roads in Article 5 states that Article 98 of Article 1 changes and reads - the pedestrian must not enter and move along the highway or the highway. In two years, two and a half years from the adoption of this law and after various changes and additions to traffic safety laws on the roads, we have an item like this. So much for the seriousness of the bill and not accepting certain amendments, regardless of who they come from in this House, of which parliamentary groups and the consequences that we have come the situation now that after two and a half years the government has such an amendment to its law. It is doubtful whether all the prescribed legal conditions for its formation are met, that is, for its business. The mention of the agency cannot finance its costs, i.e. revenue, its costs. What else is problematic in that agency? It was not a competition for either the director of the agency or the full-time job. The directors became, with all due respect to the police general, and probably other personnel, i.e. employees of the agency, were brought in the same way, i.e. from the Ministry of Infrastructure, as envisaged by the Ministry of Infrastructure. A biography of executives and employees can be found on this agency's website and that's why I'm telling you. What particularly attracts attention? For example, in the report, the Agency’s executives are called elders, and the Agency is called an organ. It's a classic police term. She talks enough about how she's created and how she's filled with the personnel of this agency. We doubt whether a further active police general or a retired police general is running a principal post at the head of this agency. In 2010, over 60 million dinars were spent in the Agency's budget, in just four months, Mr. President. Of which, 20 million dinars were spent on the purchase and costs of passenger vehicles. A million and a half dinars were spent for fuel in those four months. One of the cars purchased for the agency's needs is the Audi A8 Quatro, which costs over 80,000 euros. To make the problem even bigger, not soon after that car was crashed. About a million dinars were given for his repair. That proves what the agency is dealing with, the unemployment agency. It's an amazing but true thing and it's an example of our practice. For liquid, i.e. In 2011, 220 million dinars were allocated from the Republika Srpska budget for the agency's work, and about three million for fuel. Mr. Prime Minister, the salary of the director of this agency is twice your salary, although we all receive salary from the budget, but the salary of the director of this agency is twice your salary. Did you let that happen? Is such distribution and such use of the budget system possible? In addition, for 2011 they were given another 220 million dinars. It is also evidence and arguments that the Agency for Traffic Safety should not exist and that the resolution ministry where traffic is traffic, which is the Ministry of Infrastructure and Traffic, which has personnel and we have evidence that the personnel from that ministry have not moved to the agency, can perform. With all this, although you must agree with me, in that period because of the worsening conditions of life, standards, due to the rising price of derivatives, traffic has been reduced on the roads of the Republic of Serbia and since the establishment of the Transport Safety Agency, it has deteriorated by several percent. That speaks enough of all arguments for the non-existence, i.e. the abolition of this agency and your need to accept the amendment on the abolition of the Agency for the Security of Transport of Returns of Jobs within the Resort Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65700	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted an amendment proposing that Article 1a be added in front of article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Rogovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65701	Thank you. This is a follow-up to the explanation of the previous amendment, that the transactions referred to in Article 9. The road safety law is carried out by the ministry responsible for traffic, not the Agency for Traffic Safety, simply to save the costs for the work of the mentioned agency, which, as I said for a little while, explain this amendment, pay or charge from the budget, and in the end of the case from the citizens and from the economy. Article 10 provides evidence that the cost of performing these tasks is higher than when they were carried out by the Resoring Ministry. I said, the personnel from this ministry did not move into the agency, but police personnel were brought in, and the costs of both sectors are automatically doubled, i.e. the sector within the ministry and newly formed agencies. By returning these jobs to the ministry's jurisdiction, here, for 2011, we had an example that at the very least about 220 million dinarabile savings and that savings could, in any case, be used to raise salaries to police officers who, both recently and in the previous period, are almost on a continuous strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65702	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65703	We have also submitted an amendment to Article 18. The Law on the Security of Traffic on Roads, which stipulates that fines are distributed in an appropriate percentage between the Republic of Serbia's budget and local self-government, or the budget of local self-government on whose territory a violation has been committed, and that most of these funds belonging to the Republic of Serbia's budget, under the existing law, are used to equip traffic police units. Article 1 The proposal proposes that instead of equipping the traffic police, the funds belonging to the MUP are used for the purposes of the MUP without specific reference to the reason for that purpose. I'm talking about an existing draft of amendments and additions to the law. We have already said that it is necessary for Article 18 to be deleted and now we repeat it and the fines, once again we withdraw, are classical budget revenues and cannot oppose Article 92. The constitution, where it is prescribed that all revenues and expenditures financed by its powers and the Law on the Budgetary System in Article 19 must be shown in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that the fines are public revenue belonging to the budget, and that they are not distributed to anyone, such as your respected predecessor, Finance Minister, as Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic reiterated the situation that we do not have control over 20% of the public revenues in Serbia. It is also about this way of distribution of funds, that is, the purpose of the budget, so that the redistribution of these funds is made directly from a particular procedure, in this case monetary penalties and various sanctions, are carried out, the funds are distributed to the MUP on a proposal, and to the earlier traffic police for their equipment. Earlier, it was in conflict of interest that police in certain territory could abuse this law's stance and work with as many violations as possible for reasons of obtaining the same portfolio, traffic police, even more funds. It is not only a dispute between the traffic police portfolio, the jurisdiction of local self-government, i.e. the means that local self-government, given the territory where the offence is committed, belong to, and also to the linkage, let's say, mayor and management of local self-government and the management of the traffic police, that, given the lack of funds in local self-government budgets that have been present in the last few years in all local self-government, have a literal agreement that these measures should be expressed as much as possible in order to make one and other budgets, i.e. local self-government budgets and budgets intended to equip traffic police. That's why when we passed traffic safety laws on the roads, we drew attention to this, but no one had an understanding either. Now you've remembered that you're returning this part of the funds to the vault M.O.P. We continue to say that, referring to a member of the Constitution and a member of the Budgetary System Act, this distribution cannot be done and that literally neither the prime minister nor the finance minister have control over budgets at least of around 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65704	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65705	The government suggests to this member that police drivers, military and civilian police, then BIA members, members of the VBA, should be allowed to use a mobile phone during the ride. We agree that this should be possible for them, but provided they can do so without the hands being hired, they have adequate equipment. If this deduction is made, this proposal by the government can also be somewhat understood when it comes to members of the criminal police, let's say it's not clear to me what kind of emergency action a member of the Serbian Army or a member of the Military Intelligence Service that is so urgent that it requires the use of a mobile phone. I remind you that we are the state that lifted the state's secret, that we have an army that has no military secret. All the secret military and state we had we expressed in The Hague tribunal, our greatest enemies. I also remind you that you have established all important friendly relations with all those who threaten territorial integrity in the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, at least so you claim. The NATO Pact is already in Serbia. NATO's pact intelligence is sitting in the ministry as well as in other ministries at the invitation of the government of the Republic of Serbia. You and Albania have established friendly relations, so you claim in your laws. You have brought and signed an agreement on co-operation with Albania in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against international terrorism and drug trafficking, it remains only to be held together. With Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia you signed an agreement on co-operation in the field of defence, and with Croatia you went even a step further, you began to apply the agreement before it was signed, before it was verified in the Serbian Parliament by members of the Serbian Army participating in a joint military exercise with the Croatian Army in a polygon at the "Eugen Quaternik" barracks. Eugen Kvatarnik is otherwise a Ustasha who has declared an independent state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65706	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to Article 2 and proposed that Article 2a be added. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65707	Article 1(1), second subparagraph, point (a) and (b) of The road safety law has been established, i.e. the intended obligation of motor vehicles, of all motor vehicles, that, during the daytime use, short lights must be included during the journey. The period of the previous two and a half years has not shown the purpose of such a decision and the use of lights during the day, nor has it been reduced, unfortunately, the number of traffic accidents, nor has the percentage of the victims been reduced, especially here the special situation refers to, say, motorcycles and their use, because they have previously, with the use of short lights and unfortunately the speeds they develop, warned other participants in the traffic of their presence. We are then and now propose that Article 77 of the Law should be amended and read as follows: "In the daytime, traffic on a short journey, i.e. daylights can only be included on vehicles with passing championships when they are on intervention and motorcycles and bicycles with a motorcycle". Even in some more developed and developed European countries, you do not have the obligation to use short, or daily lights during driving during the day. And those countries don't belong to countries where traffic is safe, say, at some critical level. When we look at some other effects, Mr. President, then we come up with a situation and an analysis that rides with lights on during the day primarily interferes with the drivers of incoming vehicles in an uninterrupted observation of the overall traffic situation on the way. Then, vehicles with lights on have increased fuel consumption, which normally has both economic and ecological effects. According to official data, the total damage to traffic accidents in the last year was around 2.7 billion dinars. When the costs of increased fuel consumption are added to this, because the automatic use of day-lights increases fuel consumption, then there is a figure that is also threefold higher. Given the constant use of daylight lights, then you also have a situation that is shorter the duration of the battery and all other systems and cables that are in that frame. Because of all this and because of the increase in fuel consumption, it's normal for environmental effects, and not to mention the situation that the lamps you bought over 30, 50,000 kilometers bought every other, third year, now you have to buy every two or every six months, and because of the waste, it causes the same environmental problems due to battery waste and increased fuel consumption. The situation is, once again, that by introducing such a measure has not come at all, nor has security increased on the roads of the Republic of Serbia. Constantly lit lights can have a negative impact, in addition to this, and on the health of other traffic users, I am thinking primarily of sight, and by intervention that only vehicles that are on intervention and motorcycles and bicycles with motorcycles, as suggested by the SNS, we think that this same category is a very important category of vehicles clearly more visible in the road situation, in traffic and that you should accept this proposed SNS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65708	The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65709	Article 3. provides that in the event of a traffic jam on a specific road, all vehicles located in the middle and right lane shall be placed at the right edge of August and that is fine, and all vehicles in the left August lane along the left edge of August and that is, as far as we are concerned, the SRS office and quite logically, but it is not right that the Government proposes that the space left between these two columns of the vehicle must be sufficient for the smooth passing of vehicles that have the passing championship. We have suggested that this solution be deleted for the reason that it can happen in practice that due to the width of the road and the width of the vehicle drivers, despite their best will, are not able to leave the passage for the smooth passing of vehicles that have the passing championship, ambulances and police vehicles. According to this decision proposed by the Government, if this solution is accepted, and if our amendment is rejected, these drivers will practically commit a traffic violation and bear certain disciplinary consequences. We find that pointless. That's why we suggest we delete it. There is this provision – right along the right edge of August, left along the left edge of August. It is logical that if space is wide enough, space is enough to pass ambulances and police vehicles, and if space is not enough logically, both will find a solution with a little goodwill to get those vehicles through where they're going.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65710	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65711	Mr. Cvetkovic, I don't know if you're aware of how you and your ministers behave in traffic. I mean, you and your ministers, because I'm absolutely sure your drivers wouldn't drive so fast that you wouldn't make them do it. I wish that you would once be in the capacity of a pedestrian or a driver when your ministers pass by. Believe that you couldn't get away from them. The full safety of traffic is achieved if the traffic and the circumference of the driver is carried out only if it does not interfere with the normal movement of the vehicle from the opposite direction and when there is enough space on the road for it to safely carry out those operations. When can't a driver do these jobs? You list cases where you can't do those shops, bypasses and overruns. I suggested my amendment that it should not begin or begin to bypass. Why can't he start? Because that's exactly what it is when a driver, as they say, falls into scissors. It's starting to cross over, so come back. There are thousands of cases like that. I'm sure you've experienced it many times, at least in the passenger seat or the back. As you predicted, he can begin the interception even though it's not safe, so he can come back. Therefore, it should be stipulated in the law that if it is not safe, it must not begin or cross-reference. I don't know if you understood this – to start, to run, to do etc., but I'm sure if you didn't understand that you would remember this amendment for the first time when you rushed the driver and flew into the scissors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65712	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65713	Mr. Prime Minister, and the four of you from the ruling coalition, I don't think there's a more pointless proposal than Article 6. A bill of this law. Article 6 refers to Article 122 of the basic law, paragraph 7 is deleted, and paragraph 7 says – the motor vehicle carrying out the test drive in addition to the license plate(s) must be marked separately on the front and rear of the test vehicle – the test drive. What are those vehicles that go for a test drive? These are newly manufactured vehicles, modified vehicles, motor vehicles and connected vehicles, these are vangabarit vehicles which are also newly manufactured and require the approval of the MUP and require, in addition to everything else, the consent of those that maintain roads, i.e. facilities along the roads, that a test drive can be carried out on that road. Therefore, if the test drive can damage the road, damage the facilities along the road, the consent must be given to the one maintaining the roads and the damage will be borne by the one performing the test drive. What was wrong with these vehicles, in addition to all of this, having all these protective measures clearly marked on the table on which it says - test drive? Why did this bother Article 122? With my amendment, I asked that Article 6 of Article 122 of the basic law be deleted, because I believe that, in addition to all the securitys that must be carried out in the test run, the obligation should be to be the one whose vehicle is going for the test drive, to indicate clearly that the other drivers, the other participants in the traffic inform that it is a test drive and that it is a vehicle that is not yet ready for traffic, is just going for the test drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65714	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65715	Before I move on to this amendment and to Article 8, let me just say once again, Mr. President, about the needs of this agency's work. For 2011, 570,000 dinars are scheduled for the smelling trees for the agency. So when you take an average price of about 100 dinars, it's a number of 5,700 of the same trees. Who and whose needs? And there aren't that many vehicles in that vault, among other things. Now I'm going back to Article 8. This is an amazing thing, and if it wasn't a pre-election year ahead of us, you know when this Article 8. Proposals and laws come on the agenda? With this change, the same government is trying to alleviate the problems it made for farmers in 2009 when this law was passed. We forgot these two and a half years and the stories of all MPs then, when the law was passed, that farmers or tractors and other cars could not be placed in the same category. Now, fortunately, we've become aware of that category of people, but we wouldn't be aware of the situation if it weren't for a pre-election year ahead of us. The proposed amendment also provides for the abolition of regular, or technical examinations for tractors. There's no need, it's a category of vehicle that in particular does not endanger road safety and there's no need, like other cars, for stickers. Moreover, this category, which, in terms of standards and economies, stands very badly as the whole of Serbia, would also reduce the costs of their modest budgets anyway. We are also point 8. item 3 for the prescribed obligation of technical examinations every six months for vehicles older than 15 years, we argue and now that this is the impact on the poorest category of the population and that vehicles, mostly, older than 15 years of driving, unfortunately those who do not have the means to buy as some newer cars and that it is only, mainly in most cases, cars for rural areas. They use these cars for one month's arrival from their villages to the centers of their cities for these needs of monthly, drinking needs and are not large entrants in traffic. From the point of view of security, a 15-year-old vehicle category is really problematic, but we live in Serbia and the largest category of people who have the ability to separate funds are people who drive vehicles over the age of 15. You've seen, Mr. President, that next year we won't even have a car fair. So much for purchasing power in Serbia. Because of this, we believe that the technical review is too heavy a burden and a burden on the standard of this population category every six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65716	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Defence and Security have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65717	I really need to read the explanation written by the applicant for Article 8 on which the SRS Parliament Club submitted this amendment – the reason for the introduction of this provision is that the mandatory annual tractor registration has additionally burdened the already impoverished agricultural households, so the mandatory annual registration of these vehicles is lifted, thus facilitating the difficult financial situation in which farmers are located. The change was made in response to numerous initiatives of municipalities: Čupria, Žitoradja, Dimitrigrad, Bor, Sokobanja, Bolovac, Varvarin, Topola, Kučevo, Malo Crnića, Vrnjačka Banja, Lapovo, Mininica, Babušnica, Bojnik, Žabari, Zaječar, Doljevac and Mali Zvornik. These are municipalities throughout Serbia. This tells us that farmers are in a catastrophic situation everywhere in Serbia. What I've read, the proposer's explanation, is the best recognition that the government has treated its citizens, what all the accusations have been. This is another pre-election amendment to the law. Again, we come to the conclusion, a lot of what the SRS has proposed, now before the elections the government accepts, I guess it could somehow look into the eyes of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65718	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65719	I think it's finally time for the vehicle registration business to be carried out by the Ministry of Traffic through municipal administrations and stopped with this practice of performing this work by the MUP. This would be much better and simpler for both citizens and the state for more serious reasons. These jobs, by themselves, fall into the normal affairs of the state administration, and there's no reason to keep being coasted by the police. For all of this, there was an excuse when the registers were operated manually. Now that we have electronic connection and all electronic data in one place and the possibility of networking various organs and entering the database, there's no reason for the vehicle registration business to run the MAP, instead of running it by the Ministry of Traffic. In practice, it's very complicated, and we're all witnessing this procedure when these jobs are run by M.O.P. officers. In itself, because of the volume of business, because of the content and security of these jobs, too complicated is the procedure. We think that the competent authorities of local self-government and state administration, along with the resolution ministry responsible for traffic, would be able to manage this procedure more easily. Almost, when the amendments to the Law on Police were made, we talked about the situation that is still present, that certain officials are on these jobs, not ordinary civil servants, but are still in the category of police officers. An example of these true claims is the situation, let's say, that on the strike of police officers, they were also a category of these persons. The minister didn't say at any time that they weren't different categories of faces. That's why, when the amendments were made to the Police Act, we said that all officers, all employees in the police, couldn't be different from other civil servants and couldn't be all in the category of police officers. For all reasons and for other reasons, and because of the situation that the police, i.e. the Ministry of Transport, have too many jobs, we consider it appropriate to take over the vehicle’s repositories.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65720	You used your group's time. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Defence and Security have submitted an amendment to Article 9. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65721	Perhaps the prime minister has never fallen into the trafficked scissors, as my colleague Mirko Munjic said, and it would be good to keep it that way. Of course, but he must have fallen into the political scissors recently both he and his coalition. The Transport Safety Act, which was passed in 2010, was expected to be much, but you know, traffic safety on the roads cannot be ensured only by tightening the fines. That's maybe one way to do something about it, three very important factors are to have good road safety, that's -- driver and other traffic participants, road vehicles, roads and other infrastructures. You see, Mrs Dejanovic, how much more interesting Serbian citizens are than the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Twenty municipalities have been demanding for several years to be released from registration of tractors and vehicles each year, and what counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic said throughout Serbia. These are mostly, when you look at the analysis, poor municipalities, but now under the administration of Mirko Cvetkovic, many sent by many who had not been there before, although they have natural resources, but simply have no environment for attraction, there is no possibility that people can recover. Instead of accepting that these vehicles are registered once and for the change in the person of the vehicle owner, or those tractors, that is, the word is that when the owner changes, they are reregistered, but you say every year the technical examination, each year the sticker goes. If you didn't want that, if you don't understand about poor farmers in Serbia, why didn't you say that this technical review, although every year against the will of the owners and owners of those tractors, would be compensated or paid by the state or by some means that could be provided through the Ministry of Agriculture, if we were ahead of the election, and these changes and additions are brought in... (President: I thank you. Let me finish. We could've hired 1800 agricultural engineers, we could've made a small expense for tractors, like agricultural machines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65722	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Rogovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65723	Thank you. If the State intends to give its vehicles for use, i.e. through a directorate or otherwise, this must primarily be done through leases or similar freight. Even if a means of free use is given, the question of the reasons and the property benefits that the user obtains and pays taxes for such a benefit, as according to our applicable tax rules and the right to free use of goods is considered the income on which the tax is paid. If it is another case, i.e. temporarily taken away by vehicles which are still owned by the persons against whom the proceedings are being conducted, the situation here is more complicated and problematic and the question arises whether the law even allows such an exhibition, as you have provided for the member mentioned. It is about things that are controversial, which have been temporarily taken away, and they must be kept until the dispute is resolved. The court case isn't closed. Often, especially the justice minister, it goes public with several hundred million euros of seized property. The question is how many procedurally completed things are. What happens if individuals, unfortunately, prove their innocence in this court case? Who will repay and pay interest and damages in these ways, caused by the intended member of the law, i.e. the amendment and the addition of the law, as you provide for this article? Who here is entitled to use someone's property? State, civil servants, a certain category of officials, their friends are free of charge. It cannot behave this irresponsiblely because certain processes are not completed by the end and the question is how certain processes will be completed. I really admire you. Some people here say that after the new election, they'll have 80%... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And if you add your 20%, then you don't seem to need anyone anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65724	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65725	What have you been up to in this article 10, God forbid, but no matter what Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic interrupts in half of the word, we still manage to draw attention to the attempt of fraud in all of these laws that we are discussing today. Here you are talking about vehicles which, by decision of the Directorate, are being placed on the management of any other legal or physical person, and you have predicted that this motor vehicle is being entered into a single vehicle register, which is fine and that a certificate of temporary registration, temporary license plate and registration sticker is being issued, and until then it is okay, but then you say – at the request of the legal or natural person to whom these vehicles are entrusted. What does that mean? How are you going to give those vehicles without having all these elements? How did you come up with that? You'll be under the grains of that seized property to give, and then that someone of yours who gets that vehicle won't apply for all of these elements provided for in the condition, they'll be given to anyone who applies for it, and then we ask ourselves, "What are all these decommissioned vehicles used for?" We know that both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament are driving in a state car and we are not demagogues, but we are wondering – whose Škode, Mr Cvetkovic, do you know, those two Skodas, in one train, Tom Nikolic and one security guard, and behind the other security. There's these guys, they say they're being paid by the state. We didn't know that Toma Nikolic was such an important character, that he needed to be guarded by state security. (President: Time, just finish the sentence. That's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65726	I'm expressing regret that you have confusion, what's a word, and what's a sentence. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65727	It's about the height of the driver's ticket moving through a stop lane on the highway or a motorcycle road. Of course, moving with a stop tape is not allowed and should be sanctioned. However, we have submitted an amendment that reads – except in cases where it is allowed to temporarily set up traffic signals, as well as in cases where it allows or requires a traffic policeman to regulate traffic on that part of the highway. Simply, life and practice show that using a stop tape is sometimes necessary. We are all witnessing incredible traffic jams this summer at the crossings of Gazeli, on the way out of Belgrade towards Bubanj Potok. Drivers have several, so to speak, life rules. The first rule is to respect a traffic cop. The second rule is to respect light signals. The third rule must respect the August signalling. If this amendment to the SRS is not accepted, then you create one confusion or you have to amend a complete law. What do you want a driver who gets caught on the highway in front of him, a traffic cop who's pointing him on a stop tape? If he doesn't listen to a traffic cop, this one can punish him. If he listens to a traffic policeman and engages in a stop tape, regardless of this law, he will be punished for violating Article 11 of this bill. So this is a really well-intentioned, correct amendment that contributes to improving the text of the law and I would like to hear one rational, logical explanation – why this amendment is not accepted. Simply, a five-day spell will give you a situation where you will see that what the SRS is proposing is applied to practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65728	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Fund for the Protection of the Environment You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dusan Marić, Radica Jocic, Radiša Ilic, Nikola Savivić and Radoslav Milovanovic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the Report of the Environment Protection Committee. The National Assembly conducted a search in principle. In accordance with Article 157(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65729	Article 17 of the basic law states that one of the Fund's tasks is to encourage sustainable development of the rural area. The government is proposing a new solution to delete this existing solution, and we are proposing by amendment that it remain a solution from the basic law, because we consider the new solution proposed by the government unacceptable. Here's why, I'll give you some arguments. In Serbia, we have more than two thousand villages and villages where there are no more living souls. According to the 2002 census, there were 46,814 permanently abandoned houses and 144.178 other houses marked as temporarily uninhabited. So, a total of 192 thousand abandoned houses. It is estimated that by 2030 of the 4.528 living Serbian villages and villages will completely relax another 1,200. So, every fourth. In 350 villages live less than a hundred, and in 352 villages less than 50 inhabitants. Hope that the Serb village will not be extinct defends another 330 villages that record an increase in population. There are 260,000 men living in the villages who are close to 50 and are not married. What I said earlier this afternoon, in more than 200 Serbian villages, there are no inhabitants under the age of 20. Demographs say that there is no emigration in southern Serbia and the southeast of Serbia, no one left, and you are proposing a legal solution that deletes the obligation of the Environment Fund, among other things, to worry about fostering sustainable development of the rural area, which is contained by former Article 17 of the basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65730	National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65731	We have submitted an amendment requesting the erasure of Article 3. Just to remind you, Article 2 reads – the funds of the fund are used, and, among other things, to point 10 of the basic law, to encourage sustainable economic activity, i.e. sustainable economic development, which the government has proposed to delete and the point 10 is to encourage sustainable development. The Serbian Radical Party believes the fund's funds must be used to encourage and sustainable business activities, not just for sustainable development, as the government has proposed these changes and additions. In the area of environmental protection, many economic activities can also be developed that could certainly contribute to economic development, such as recycling, tourism, hunting, fishing, health tourism, exploitation of healthy drinking water, etc. The amendment proposes erasing this new point on the 10th because the solution in the basic law is better and free of termological restrictions. In an explanation that you gave to explain why the SRS amendment was not accepted and you yourself acknowledge everything we have stated in the context of the amendment. Your argument is - the proposed amendment is not accepted for reasons why sustainable development implies sustainable resource management in a way that reduces environmental or environmental impacts. One of the most important objectives of sustainable development is to create new jobs through the promotion of sustainable economic activity. Well, then why did you even need to change anything when everything was nice in the basic law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65732	Thank you. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65733	We're proposing to delete Article 7 because we disagree with the concept of the law, we disagree that you're eradicating concerns about rural development from the fund's obligations, so I'm going to continue to present these worrying data. In Stari Planina, in Papratna, Rapušnica, Sarbanovac, Gradište, Drvnik, Stari Korit and Balinac live 50 people of the average age of 70. In the Dojkinci, the largest village in the Old Mountain, lives 180 inhabitants and is all over 65 years old. Villages Donji and Gornji Rinj in Bela Palanka municipality have one resident each. Six old men live in Toponica, one at Baba Cal and Glama. Nine residents live in the municipality of Kursumli per square mile on average. The comparisons work, on the other side of the administrative line, in Podujevo live 200 inhabitants per square mile. Life in Javor, it's a village near Kursumlia, defending one resident, he's 91 years old. In elementary school in the village of Gradnja, it is 30 kilometers from Vranj, until recently there were 300 students, and now there is one student and one teacher, a student named Mihajlo Markovic, going to the second class, and teacher Maja Savic. In the village of Zaglovak in Timoška Krajina, the youngest resident Jovica Velojić is 69 years old. I will finish with the data that I have completed and the morning presentation on this subject, due to Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, and I am now convinced that he will accept this amendment, the village of Novo Korito near Zaječar, the birthplace of Mirko Cvetkovic, in the last seven years only one child was born in the village. The village has three students, and they go to school within five kilometers of Miniævo. So, in your home village of 100 houses, every home life exists only in every fifth. For twenty years, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's house has been abandoned. Now we have one irony, that Mirko Cvetkovic is signing a law that will objectively contribute to stopping this alarming, worrying trend.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65734	No irony, you're done. Mr. Dusan Maric finished his sentence. I have a very nice relationship with your colleagues. Now I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65735	Dear Members of the People, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction for the very constructive debate that has been conducted during today. All MPs sought to explain the amendments they advocated. Some were less, some more successful. I am now taking the opportunity to call on the MPs to accept in voting day some more of the amendments that have been rejected by the government. I'll inform you now who these amendments are. In the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the amendment submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha to Article 3(2), where he suggested that the word "can" be replaced by "must", he managed to convince me that it was good to write: "must". It is an obligation that all those taxpayers who have not paid taxes or contributed to publication and do not remain discreetly entitled to the tax administration. Also, in the Law on corporate tax, amendments submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 3rd point 2), where they wanted to define that the obligations they had written off were non-refundable. I think that remark is in place and that she might be accepted. In the same law of amendments submitted by a group of 21 MPs, which refers to Article 11 concerning penalties, where they have proposed to increase the range of these penalties and give one quality explanation, I think it would also be rational to accept it, and in this context I appeal to all those MPs to support these amendments in the voting day. At the end of the day, I wish everyone a happy New Year and Christmas, but there's still a lot until Christmas, and I thank you, of course, everyone, but most of all, those who were the most persistent and with whom we waited together for the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-28-0.u65736	Dear Mr. President, thank you, too. We'll have a chance to see each other tomorrow from 16:00 to 19:00 hours, and then we'll wish for a happy New Year, but this is an opportunity to be with you in the last working day, because tomorrow is the last Thursday and the different way of working is, I really thank you for the extremely correct co-operation that the government has had with the National Assembly all along, headed by you. Thank you, of course, and for your participation in today's work to you and your associates, thank you to the MPs. Let me conclude the review of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. It'll either be tomorrow night or Friday morning. Tomorrow at 10.00 we will continue to work this session, but I remind you that we will have a government from 16:00 to 1900 hours and most likely, if everything is planned, the vote will be after 1900 hours. I urge you to take part in the vote and vote in favour of the draft budget law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 89 MPs attend the meeting, and to determine the number of MPs in the O.R., I ask Members of Parliament to insert cards into the Parliament's electronics units. I realize there are 85 of us at this point, which means there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure. Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
