ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54632	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. I would like to remind you that Article 168 is Section 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that any proposal to put on the agenda for emergency acts during the session of the National Assembly shall be decided immediately upon receipt of the proposal, provided that most of the Members of Parliaments attend. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs have found that there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? There's a word from MP Zoran Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54633	My colleagues and colleagues, as the Spanish sales series Telecom was completed yesterday, which lasted nearly nine months, raised some questions, and I will ask the government or the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Cvetkovic. It is clear that the failure of the privatisation of Telecom is evidence of the state of the economy, evidence of the price we pay by running from the market economy, with the absence of essential reforms. It is clear that this is evidence and the state of the public sector and public enterprises. When we are unable to sell, they say, the most profitable public enterprise in Serbia, then I guess someone must be held accountable. On the one hand, it shows the state of the economy, the state of economic policy of this government. On the other hand, it also shows a somewhat sloppy and poorly guided process of privatising Telecom. It's clear, and it doesn't need to be proved in principle. Considering that Telecom had a 2010 profit of 170m euros, someone will say it's a good thing we didn't sell it, because it's a profitable company. Experts rightly say it is the result of a long-standing monopoly position, but that the company now has competition and that in the future, the market covered by Telecom will decrease, thus reducing the price. This is clear because two other competitors will take a part of the market through better management and investment and as the share in the Telecom market will be reduced from the current over 50%, and maybe 60% to less, so the price will fall. I'm talking about this because of the citizens, and I remind you that NIS was sold for 400m euros last year, and that last year it had a profit of 160m euros. This means that the Russian partner will have his investment back in about three years. It's absolutely not economically rational, but that's what we talked about when it was meant to be. That's why I'm not going to stand for you from the ruling majority at the wound around the Telecom sale, because you've been attacked by just the ones who advocated the sale of NIS for 400 million, but unfortunately that's what you've been involved in. With Telecom, there is another story that is unclear, which is the purchase of the "Telecom of Republika Srpska" for 650m euros, which was 180m euros then more than the next price offered. I remind you that just then, Austria's Telecom offered about 470m euros. Anyway, that loan is still coming back, Telecom's returning it. Therefore, my first question to Mr Cvetkovic is: since we know that Telecom is burdened with this loan, since we know on the NIS case how many debts other public and state-owned enterprises were to NIS at the time the Russian partner entered the company, I am interested in the relationship between the claim and the obligation of Telecom on 31 December 2010. We can't just talk about profit, and we don't have the fact how much Telecom is due and how much they owe him, because certainly the foreign partners, who bought the tender documentation, had to bear in mind how much debt they would have to pay back when they bought. That certainly lowers the price. Another thing I'm interested in, since the sale of Telecom's failed, and since the budget isn't being filled regularly, how does the government plan to cover the budget gap? We know that there are only two options objectively: either Telecom sales or new borrowing. Since the first one fell off, there's still a new borrowing. Will the government eventually go into debt, will it be under even more unfavourable conditions than it has ever been before, and will new borrowing bring down additional credit ratings of the country and thus collect our future and past debts? These are two questions, therefore, that is, the claims and debts of Telecom, and not just the wave of profit and, secondly, how do you plan to cover the budget hole, what kind of debt, what is the plan?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54634	The speech has a representative of the DSS parliamentary group – Vojislav Kostunica, Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to open up a problem that obviously exists in this country and it seems so serious that we need to talk about it. In fact, in the past few months, Serbia has been completely caught up in the face of the suicides of young people under very strange circumstances. Out of deep respect for the victims and for the families of those children, I'm really not going to list examples that every citizen of this country knows, but I want to open up a problem, because I don't think we're going to achieve anything if we hide, if we pretend the problem isn't current, and if we pretend it's none of our business. This is, in my deep opinion and the opinion of my parliamentary group, a problem that must be addressed by parliament and government, as well as by the ministries in that government, a dramatic warning issued yesterday by experts who say that there will be an increase in the number of suicides of children in Serbia, because this is about underage children, a team before the importance of the Internet and various social networks in all of this, and I would add the increasingly insignificant role of society and family, which behave as silent observers in this problem. Today, another information has been released that 6,300 visitors visited the site on a high school site in Nis: what do you think of collective suicide? Someone really has to answer that question. Adolescence is a very busy and dramatic period in which every child and small problems in the school, in the family, love problems indeed experience very dramatic and society must help him overcome them. Alcohol and drugs are an escape from reality, we have to be honest to say – from the reality in which these children are practically not involved and are not actors, and God’s drugs and alcohol, and how they release the brakes of consciousness and contribute to this state. I have to ask the question first of all to the Minister of Education, Mr. Obradovic, what did he do about what happened at Svetozar Markovic's high school? Also, I have to remind myself that in front of educational workers, students and parents there is an awful bad law on basic education and education, there is no strategy on where our education should go, that we have very high scholarships, that the state and how it actively participates in that unfortunate slogan "ends college and escapes" that in Serbia 70% of schools strike, and today passively strikes even though sausage classes take place. I have to ask the Ministry a question, i.e. to the Minister of Sports and Youth until some time ago, or until a month ago, which announced a very ghastly law on young people who were supposed to solve many problems concerning young people, including employment. Obviously this one, although it's made, but it's not well accepted in public. The question is, will it be in front of parliament at all? This law or any other law in this country will not answer the question number one when it comes to youth unemployment, because it is funny to think that someone will hire young people if 440,000 people lose their jobs for the government's mandate. Young people go abroad, but that's why we make offices for young people and these offices, it would be interesting to have an answer to what the activities of these offices are, what are the results of these offices' work, and does there have any results besides being employed party personnel? So, the question to Mr Cvetkovic, Prime Minister of the Government, is whether the government was dealing with a problem in front of Serbia, which is the suicide of young people? What are the conclusions, will the public be aware of that? These two questions to Mr. Obradovic and Mrs. Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54636	Representative of the Group of Minorities, MP Esad Djudjevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54637	Presidents-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am asking a parliamentary question, that is to say, I am asking the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Registrar of the Ministers of State and Local Government, Minister of Education, Minister of Culture, the Board of Directors and the Director of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions dealing with minority rights in our country. I addressed all these questions and letters after the adoption of the National Minority Councils Act, starting in September 2009. Especially in a letter of 13 January 2011, in a letter to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who, at the same time, also President of the Council of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities, drew attention and asked for appropriate measures to be taken in order to enable further process of achieving the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights and freedoms of the Sanjak Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, which has been suspended in all our analyses over the past three years. In addition, I have turned my attention on several occasions and this high home on the issue of unexposed and unprocessed crimes, as well as serious mass violations of the human rights of the Bosniak population in Sandzak in the period 1991-1995, with more than 17.300 Bosniaks of victims of organised national military-police terror, which lasted until 2000, including the question of missing, murdered, kidnapped, the question of exiled and the question of destroyed complete Bosniak property, especially in the coastal villages. The issue also includes the launch of a serious crime investigation between 2000 and 2009. Also, I asked Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic as Prime Minister and the Council of the Republic of Serbia for national minorities to put aside Milosevic's regulation on administrative environments, which further makes it difficult for Bosniaks to exercise basic national rights in the field of official use of language and letter, education and information in the native language, as well as to protect and improve Bosniak cultural heritage. Also, as far as effective participation in public life is concerned, the fact is that Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia are insufficiently represented in police and justice and other services with public authority. I ask the prime minister and the resolution ministers, or I ask for an explanation and a notice on two issues. First, what has the government done to resolve all these issues and secondly, whether stopping and preventing the use of the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights and freedoms to members of the Bosniak national community in the Republic of Serbia can be an obstacle to achieving the status of our country's candidate in the European integration process, which is why the Bosniak List also supports and participates in this government, Boris Tadic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54638	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, an independent MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to give you information in Parliament. It is nothing new, it is known that the Roma people in deep and wide are at maximum risk in all areas of the social problem, health, housing, etc. During the holidays, I visited the area of Lykovec and came to the village of Dubrava, where there is a large Roma settlement. There's no water in that Roma village, and there's no road. The road's terribly embroidered, there's a lot of garbage, targets and feta. They drink water from some wells. The kids had a lot of stomach disease. I also appeal to the Lajkovac Municipality Assembly, as well as to the state authorities to arrange the infrastructure settlement where Roma live, because Roma are the community of this country. If we want to stop migration, it must surely be the state and certain institutions in the country that finally take over something about infrastructure and social giving to the vulnerable population of the Roma community in the country. The Democratic Left of Roma will soon visit the state, i.e. Minister Petrovic, with its delegation, and seek out the state reserves of a special food contingent, clothing, shoes and everything else needed, because the alarming situation is not only in Dubrava, but throughout Serbia. I expect and believe that I will find understanding in the institutions and ministries of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54640	I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Nikola Krpić, Veroljub Stevanović and Milan J. Nikolic. Dear People's MPs, we have received a proposal to put the act on the agenda following an emergency procedure during the session, pursuant to Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed putting on the agenda of this session as an emergency procedure - a summary list of candidates with the selection of three members of the RRA Council, submitted to the National Assembly on 26 April 2011. I'd like to determine the quorum first. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – The summary list of candidates for the selection of three members of the RRA Council has been set up by the Committee on Culture and Information. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours and distributed in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. Mrs. Donka Banovic, authorized representative? No, I don't. You're giving up, okay. Consent to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on the Assembly list of candidates for the election of three members of the RRA Council. Does the Committee's rapporteur, Mrs. Trivan, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54641	Let me just explain with a few words simply why it was today on the agenda with a request to include later in the agenda of the current session. Namely, the Serbian Parliament is one of the mandated promoters for the RRA Council, and unfortunately the Assembly did not do its job in time. Three members of the RRA expired on February 17th, the three proposed by the Assembly, more specifically the Committee on Culture and Information. Although the Assembly carried out its procedure on time, on December 15th, we called on all parliamentary groups to give their candidates, they did not respond in time, they did not give a list of candidates, which is why the Committee on Culture and Information could not decide on this issue. I would remind you that the RRA Council has nine members and that it is currently working in incomplete composition, that it lacks these three members proposed by the Assembly itself and that after all the additional consultations we have reached the six-member summary list, and we will choose three out of the six members and that there are candidates of all political parties or parliamentary groups who have submitted candidates, not only those who did not want to participate in this election process. The candidates are Milos Rajkovic, Slobodan Veljkovic, Bozidar Nikolic, Tamara Scroza, Bajram Haliti and Ivan Pajdić. I don't need to say why it's important to allow independent bodies to function. They can't function without full composition, so I'm asking you today to decide and allow the RRA Council to function at full capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54642	Does one of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, appear? No, I don't. Is there any sign-up? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54643	First of all, I would protest the way this point is included, i.e. by seeing that the other parliamentary groups have failed to apply for a word, and this is also how important the draft assembly act. Then it seems that people didn't know that today this point would be included in the agenda. The chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information also informed the MPs and the public that the RRA Council is currently operating in incomplete composition, that it was found in February 15th that the term of office to which they were elected would expire, and that it was six years, and that it was necessary for the Council to, I say, be completed, i.e. to elect three members who were currently in office. As the President of the Committee has said, this is where the Assembly is somewhat late in this procedure. But when it comes to this, and it's not such a big delay, because we as the Assembly are late in many things much longer, so it seems to me this delay of a month or two isn't so bad. In fact, we have a list of six-name candidates, with the National Assembly, that is, the committee responsible is one of the mandated promoters for members of the Council, and a total of three authorised promoters seem to me. The board did their job. In this comprehensive report on the activities of the Committee on Culture and Information, we see how the previous chairman of the Committee addressed the parliamentary groups, that the parliamentary groups deliver the names of their candidates for this very important body. We also see from the report that some parliamentary groups have done it, some have not. The report also shows that there were eight names at one point. However, the Committee has brought it down to these six candidates. The report also explains that these two candidates who are not currently here, but were on the board, were no longer candidates because they were elected to other functions. So, you can see that the Committee was doing its job. As far as this proposal is concerned, we have six names. I'll also read them, so six candidates from whom the Assembly will choose three. Under regular number one is Velimir Rajkovic, journalist, Slobodan Veljkovic, special consultant, Bozidar Nikolic, director, Tamara Skroza, journalist, Bajram Haliti, journalist and Ivan Pajdic, journalist. So, of these six candidates, the Assembly will choose three. I wouldn't go into it if I were to analyze the proposed candidates right now. They delivered exhaustive biographies, so I don't want to comment at all. It would be said that they formally, at least on the basis of attached biographies, meet the conditions to be elected members of the RRA council. We of the opposition will make that decision about who you choose to leave to you who make up the congregation majority. I assume you've already agreed in advance on what members it will be. According to the Law on Radio-Difusion of Serbia, the RRA does have very high powers, but it also has great responsibility when it comes to the work of all electronic media in Serbia. I'm particularly undermining the word "responsibility." However, when it comes to electronic media in Serbia, their work can be freely characterized sometimes as a harsh violation of the law, the same Law on Radio-Difusion, violation of the Law on Advertising and violation of the code of conduct of broadcasters. All of us, and indeed Serbian citizens, when it comes to the Law on Advertising, are witnesses that, for example, advertising blocks sometimes last eight to 10 minutes. Clearly, the Law on Broadcasting says how much one advertising block can last. I think it's about two minutes. I don't remember this advice or the Agency seriously warning some TV station that it was a violation of this law. The media is constantly breaking the law. There's a feeling this RRA isn't doing its job properly. But when it comes to this agency, our expectations may be too large for one single regulatory body, because this agency should be an independent regulatory body. Her work in recent years would say she's neither independent nor regulatory. But I said, maybe our expectations are too high. For the chaos that exists on the media scene in Serbia, it is not enough to hire one agency or members of the council of that agency or the board of directors, a general social struggle is much more necessary, to call it that. Other actors must be involved. I'm saying this, first of all, about a whole series of incidents happening every day in reality show programs on some domestic TV stations. When we elected a member of the RRA Council at the last session, we talked about this, and I want to point out again to all of us this terrible problem, and that really, if we want to prevent or try to solve the problems that, among other things, young people are facing, and that's what my colleague was talking about this morning as well as the question she asked the Minister of Education and the Minister of Sports, and the horror some families and cities in Serbia today are facing, that young people raise their hands on themselves, and society does not talk seriously about it, not to open dialogue and not to ask themselves – what is happening and what contributes to such behaviour and hopelessness of young people? This is where we have to look at that from the TV screen and, among other things, these reality shows into our houses, a huge amount of violence, aggression, swearing, hopelessness, accidents, etc. Those who talk about that society must not interfere with, say, the policies of certain TV stations that promote such shows, they tell you – yes, but everyone has a choice and can simply turn off TV. That's absolutely not true, because you can't at all, and now I'm talking like a parent who works a lot and my kids are very often alone at home and I can't control what they're going to look at and when. That's where society would have to deal with the phenomenon of reality shows. I also read some sarcastic and ironic comments based on an analysis that this year in Serbia there will be as many as six reality programs on various TVs and that Serbia, which has already become known in the region, will have interesting reality shows, that Serbia will become a leader in Europe by the number of reality shows that will be broadcast in 2011. I've been talking about this, and everything the RRA Council has to do or should take. Now, in order not to sin on my soul, I must also mention that since 2009, the RRA has launched a number of more drastic measures, breaking reports. However, the Agency also complains that these applications remain in the courts. They tell us that our reformed judiciary, when it comes to this problem, is a big problem. One television was mentioned in October, and I will not mention television individually, then in 2010, three, in 2011, several violations, but these proceedings have not yet been completed. The people of the Agency say they are in the witness hearing phase, because the truth must be established and all sides must be heard. Also, it is said that the problem is the judiciary and that some judges have a thousand cases, so that they do not get to their criminal charges. It's interesting when it comes to finding the truth, when you're talking about a program that's practically recorded, it doesn't take great wisdom and great effort by a witch. That's some help, because you've got it all on tape. However, former Culture Minister Nebojsa Bradic, and in light of all these events on television and incidents on these reality shows, announced that the amendments to the RRA Act were under way, and these changes would give greater authority to the Council itself. Also, we have learned that a media strategy is under way in Serbia. That's what we expected in early 2011. However, we were already in May and we did not see a strategy, nor did we see changes and additions to the law that would strengthen the Agency, to introduce a little more order. My appeal to the President of the Assembly, as well as to the MPs, that when that strategy arrives in the Assembly, it should be discussed here in plenary, because it is happening that the Government adopts a strategy proposal and that even it does not appear here on the board. I know that the law does not oblige the Government to send this strategy to the Assembly, however, when this issue is at stake and when the strategy that will determine or which should determine the further development of the media in Serbia, then I think it is really necessary to organise a special point, where everyone in this home would be aware of these problems that I was talking about – I think, although you are in opposition but from different parties and how well you understand what I'm talking about and I'm sure you agree with me – that we should organise a discussion on the proposal for this strategy, and before it is adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54644	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before I conclude, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? (No) I'm finishing the search. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, May 5th, 2011, starting at 11:15 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Thank you. [[After break – 11:45]] Gentlemen, before we move to the vote, or to decide on the points of the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. I find that there are 126 of us at this point. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there are 126 MPs in the hall and that we can continue our work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF ADVOCATURA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill of law to the vote, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for the bill in principle. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I would like to remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Petra Jojic to members 2 and 10, Miroslav Petković, Milice Radović, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalić to Article 2, Maja Lausevic to members 6 and 54, Biljana Hasanovic Korać to members 6, 7, 14 and 90, Goran Stefanović to member 6, Aleksandra Martinović to member 6, Daniela Lovrin Gavrilović to member 6, Vladan Jeremic to member 8, Srdjana Perić to member 17 and 29, Srdjan Mikovic to members 20, 40 and 47, Judite Popović, Neboželja Rangelović and Bojan Đurić to members 20 and 54, Milan Avramović to member 35, Srdjan Mikovic to members 20, 40 and 47, Judjana Popović to the group of the 54 members of the National Group of the Republic of St. National MP Srdjan Mikovic withdrew, in writing, an amendment submitted to article 67. Since the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, has accepted amendments to the Committee on Justice and Administration on Articles 1, 4, 25, 38, 54, 65 and 67, and the Legislative Committee considers that these amendments have been made in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, I also find that the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration to Articles 1, 4, 25, 38, 54, 65 and 67 have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of the 127 MPs, four voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Of 127 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. We're going to have to repeat this vote because the electronic system didn't show any results. So again to Article 6. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of 127 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 127 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinović. Of 126 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 14th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Of 126 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that after an article. 15. adds a new article. 15a. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that after an article. 17. adds a new article. 17a. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 20th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 21st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 25th amendment. Of 126 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Stefanovic. Of 126 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Of 126 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Of 126 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 37th amendment. Of 126 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic, submitted the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 45th Amendment. Of 126 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic put together the title above Articles 47th and 47th. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 48th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 50th Amendment. Of 126 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 54th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 54th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Proposer Snezana Malovic, minister of justice, accepted the amendment with the correction. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 105 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment, with a correction. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 64th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 64th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to article 64 with correction. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 65th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 65th amendment. Of 126 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group has submitted to the title above the 67th and the 67th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 67th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric submitted together to the 67th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinović. Of 126 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 67th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Of 126 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 67th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 68th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinović. Of 126 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 69th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 75th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 78th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 81st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted the amendment together to Article 83. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 83rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 84th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 84th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 84 amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Nenad Konstantinović, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, MP Nebojsa Rangelović and joint MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric submitted. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above article 87 and article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted On Article 87, MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 87th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of the 126 MPs, three voted for. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted an amendment proposing that new members of 87a be added after article 87a. and 87b. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 89th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 90th Amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 90th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted on Article 93th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Dear People's MPs, I have been informed that due to the acceptance of the amendment to article 21 submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, the situation of Article 165 arises. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the need for the committee responsible to submit new amendments in order to bring the amendments adopted into line with the text of the draft law. That's why I'm setting a five-minute break, and I'm asking the members of the Justice and Management Committee to meet immediately and report to us. The session of the Committee will be in Hall 1. I would also like the Legislative Committee to meet immediately behind the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54647	THE FOURTH SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION OF 5 May 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 16.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-05-0.u54648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I'd like professional services, given that the colleagues are not registered cards, to help us and to give us another card. Maybe it's decoded. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to inform that they are prevented from attending the session of MPs Nikola Krpic, Veroljub Stevanovic and Milan J. Nikolic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You have been presented the minutes on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions on the topic, minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 and the minutes of the First, Second, Third and Fourth Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. With most of the total number of MPs present, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions, which is in accordance with Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the People's Committee has submitted such a written statement of objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the minutes on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the current subject, on 24 February 2011. As 121 MPs voted in favour of, of a total of 126 MPs, I find that the National Assembly adopted a report on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic, on 24 February 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 8, 9, 10 and 11 March 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 116 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 8, 9, 10 and 11 March 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 7 March 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 121 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 7 March 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 14 March 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 116 voted in favour. We adopted the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 14 March 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 29 March 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I agree that we adopted the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 29 March 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 5 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, he voted 121. I agree that we adopted the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 5 April 2011. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, a proposal to shorten the time for discussion and proposals for the merger of the debate. The government proposed that the draft law amending the tobacco law, which was submitted on 4 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Finance Committee has proposed that the draft decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on visa waiver, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Finance Committee has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the Securities Commission, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 116 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on companies, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, he voted 121. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Information proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the Assembly list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Culture, submitted to the National Assembly on 21 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 114 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 108 MPs proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft amending and supplementing law on the selection of MPs, which submitted the fifth item of the proposed agenda to the National Assembly on 28 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 April 2011, be put on the agenda. Of the 126 MPs, six voted in favour. The proposal was not accepted. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Personal Card Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 April 2011. Of the 126 MPs, he voted 121. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 54 MPs of the SRS Parliamentary Group proposed that, in an urgent process, the draft decision on the education of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Corporate Security and Co-operation (ODKB), which they submitted to the National Assembly on 4 May 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one has come forward with the proposal. I find the proposal not accepted. Proposal to shorten the time for discussion: MP Vlatko Ratkovic, on the basis of Article 92(3) and pursuant to Article 95(7). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to shorten the time to discuss the draft law amending the tobacco law, which the government submitted. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. ) I am voting on the proposal of MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the proposal. I find the proposal accepted. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 170 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Economic Society and the Proposal for a Law on the Agreement on the Financial Restructuring of Business Companies; a joint investigation into the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Area, a Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the elimination of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on the withdrawal of visas; a joint single debate on the selection of members of the National Bank of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, the Assembly for the selection of members of the National Council for Culture of the National Council for Culture, the Council, the Council for the Council for the European Council for Culture, the Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council for the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union, the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 15th, the Council of 15th, the Council of the Council of 15th, the Council of 15th and the Council of the Council of the Council of 15th, the Council of 15th, the Council of 15th, the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 15th, the Council of 15th, the Council of the Council of 15th of 15th, the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the Council Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put Mr. Ratkovic's proposal to vote. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour of Mr Ratkovic's proposal. I find the proposal accepted. National MP Suzana Grubjesic, pursuant to Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2(2) and 2(2). 173 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled and uniform search be carried out on the proposal for a law on companies, a draft law on the contractual financial restructuring of companies, a bill on the control of items of precious metals. Would you like a word, Mrs. Grubeshic? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I remind you that if we vote this proposal, then we will unite three points and this decision will be respected. Since 109 voted in favour, of 128 MPs, I will ask the professional service to deliver the consolidated text of the proposal to the MPs. Before joining a statement on the agenda in general, I remind you that the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party, on 29 April 2011, submitted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee. According to Article 45(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on this proposal, shall be decided by the National Assembly at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the Parliamentary Group, which means that this proposal, by force of the Rules of Procedure, is to be included in the agenda of this sitting. Since we have come to the conclusion of the motions to put acts on the agenda of the session under emergency procedure, the proposal to shorten the time for discussion and the proposals to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda in general. I beg to be clear, ladies and gentlemen, about the draft agenda in general. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 as a whole. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. To work on the established agenda of the session... So, I'm opening the first item of the agenda, and we're going to actually go to work on May 10th at 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation. Since we haven't had a break today, we won't be working anymore today.
