ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-20-0.u58489	The eighth extraordinary session of July 20, 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 17.30 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-20-0.u58490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 126 MPs are present in the O.R. and we have a condition to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Aleksandra Jankovic, Mladen Grujic and Milan Dimitrijevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for the agenda set out in Request 122 MPs to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. Logs of the 2011 session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, the minutes of the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session in 2011 and the minutes of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the topic in question. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions, as provided for in Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 2011 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 15, 21 and 27 June 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 15, 21 and 27 June 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 27 June 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 27 June 2011. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan answering parliamentary questions on the current topic held on 30 June 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. I find that the National Assembly adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions regarding the current topic held on 30 June 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was called at the request of 122 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the eighth extraordinary session of the Nardona Assembly in 2011, the next Dn e n i d 5 was set. Proposal for a Act supplementing the Law on ratification of the Optional Protocol with the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures, 6. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the field of defence, 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Defence and the Government of Kuwait, which is the Ministry of Defence of Joint Cooperation in the area of defence, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons illegally staying with the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying. Proposal to merge the debate. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92, position 2 of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a common principle search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, points 3 and 4. Then, a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the ratification of the Optual Protocol with the Convention against Torrera and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the Area of Defence, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which constitutes the Ministry of Defence and the Government of Kuwait, which is the Ministry of Defence on Joint Cooperation in the area of Defence and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the readmission of Persons who are illegally staying with the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Serbia on the Republic of Albania. Connecting points 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. Does the People's MP, Mrs Gordana Comic, want a word? No, I don't. ) I put forward a proposal for Vice-President Komic to vote. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Dear People's MPs, we'll be working on it tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
