ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the choir members of the "Holy Prince Lazar" of Kruševac, who have just sung the national anthem of the Republic of Serbia and who will continue to follow part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. The following choir members sang to Himnu: the protojereje Draga Vješkovac, the elder of the church Lazarica, Katarina Vješkovac, the director of the choir, Ružica Vjesković, Jovana Milošević, Jelica Mijatović, Sanja Vučić, Ivana Marković, Valentina Stanković, Marija Nikolic, Dobrila Milosavljevljevic, Marija Milosavljevic, Tijana Ivanović, Gordana Matijević, Marijaa Đurić, Ivana Pejović, Vera Marinović, Vera Marinović, Snežana Jovanovic, Nadica Toković, Jana Aleksic, Jelena Nikolic, Višna Dimitrijevic, Olga Milić, Ljubanko Milić, Ljubanko Nikolic, Ljubanko Nikolic, Aleksandar Nikolica Nikolic, Žalić, Mirko Žarić, Žarić Žarić, Žarić Žarić, Žarić. Let's give it up for our dear guests. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 139 MPs attend the session. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that 127 MPs are registered at this point, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, I have also called for the sittings of Aleksandra Damnjanović Petrovic and Nebojsa Janjic, assistants of the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning and Milija Djalovic, head of the Department of Normal Work at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. You have been presented the minutes on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic, as well as records from the 6th, 7th and 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the People's Committee has submitted any written objection to this minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am putting to the vote the minutes on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question, on 7 December 2010. Of the 128 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 30 November, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 and 15 December 2010. Of the 129 MPs, 116 have been declared to this minutes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 15, 16, 17, 20 and 22 December 2010. Of the 131 MPs, they voted 124. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 22, 23, 24, 27, 28 and 29 December 2010. Of the 132 MPs, 121 voted for the record. I find that this record has been adopted. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 143 MPs, three voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on granting guarantees from the Republic of Serbia under the urgent procedure in favour of the "Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank" a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft law on granting guarantees to the German financial institution KfW under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda Srbija (HE Zvornik Rehabilitation Project) on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 134 MPs, 119 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on enforcement and security be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, no one is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of twelve MPs of the LDP MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Act on Excises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 January 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 140 MPs, 13 voted in favour of the proposal. The proposal was not accepted. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Geological Research Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 January 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 137 MPs, no one voted for the proposal. The proposal was not accepted. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 January 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, no one voted in favour. The proposal was not accepted. A group of 22 MPs from the Prosperity Group proposed that Serbia be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 February 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 18 voted in favour of the proposal. The proposal was not accepted. The government proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Lawyerry, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 February 2011. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, no one is in favour. The proposal was not accepted. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the agreement on credit between the EU and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 February 2011 (point 11 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 134 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice president and members of the Management Board of the Republic of E-communication Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2011 (point 23 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 February 2011 (point 7 of the proposed agenda) should be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 136 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 February 2011 (point 8 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 136 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 February 2011 (point 1 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Public Registration Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, no one voted for this proposal. The proposal was not accepted. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty, which regulates the liability for cost compensation between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, 109 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 March 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 136 MPs, 130 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. A group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. Does National MP Tomislav Nikolic want a word? He's entitled to three minutes, according to Article 92. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50801	Since I have secondly explained the proposal to reason with you, seriously, cost the government and the ruling apparatus in relation to the people, I do not want to take too much of your time, just to remind both you and the citizens of Serbia that the proposal was submitted on 16 December 2010, in the context of a large number of proposals that we have submitted, and later to the new proposals that we want to show you that we will rule after the next extraordinary parliamentary elections. If you had heard then, if you had listened to us and then put us on the agenda, we would have avoided many fractures on the Serbian political scene. I even think that we would avoid fractures in the ruling coalition that cost Serbia. So we offer you solutions that are better for Serbia. You'll probably adopt solutions that are better for you this year. When you need to define yourself between yourself and Serbia, you always define yourself as Serbia and you will never make a mistake. So we commit ourselves to the citizens of Serbia that what we now propose to you as an opposition party will be implemented as soon as possible after the election victory this year. If you have ears, listen. If you have eyes, watch. If you have courage, solve the problems that Serbia has, because they will not be resolved if your presidents settle; they will not be resolved if some of your presidents declare that they have better and more capable members than they are alone; they will not be resolved if you do not solve all the affairs. It won't be solved if you have your own people in every ministry, if you have your own people in every public enterprise. So, completely fair and open, correctly, as was the rally of February 5th, we offer you to fix Serbia, and it is up to you to have the responsibility that every authority carries with it. You haven't shown that degree of responsibility so far. It is not too late yet, but I must warn you that April 16th is not far and better to agree before that that Serbia will continue, but that you will agree directly with the citizens of Serbia on 16 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50802	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 152 MPs, 20 voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing law on ministries, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. Does Mr Tomislav Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 151 MPs, 21 MPs voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 February 2011. Does the MP's representative, Mr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50803	Respected members of the government, respected citizens, colleagues in the Serbian Parliament, every political party and those acting in public life claim to advocate a cheaper state and citizens' interests. The opportunity to show this and in practice is to vote for amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, which, according to all relevant surveys, bear a savings of at least one billion euros at the moment. A law that can be called colloquial by a law that prevents public tendering and savings procedures from being set up would be much greater. The number of exceptions not covered by these amendments and the additions to the law is reduced. Health institutions could not obtain a drug called Norvasc, which costs 700 dinars, instead of a generic drug that treats the same disease and costs 170 dinars. It's possible today. If we were to adopt amendments and supplement this law, 41% of the total public procurement would not end up in a negotiating process or, as the people say, in four eyes. Is Serbia in a position to allow over a billion euros to go illegally into private pockets in procedures due to insufficient public procurement laws, let its representatives judge today. There are no authorities and opposition here, there are citizens who represent, who buy drugs, who pay for school painting, road construction, the purchase of office materials and everything that means their lives easier or more expensive. Here, look Serbian citizens in the eye, and reject the law that saves at least a billion euros at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50804	I'm putting a motion to vote. Of the 153 MPs, 20 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. Does Mr Tomislav Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 154 MPs, 22 MPs voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Health Council of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 11 February 2011. Does the promoter, MP Gordana Komic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 155 MPs, 106 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Branko Ruzic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170 and 173. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on the Proposal for the Law on Changes of the Law on the Census of Population, Households and Apartments 2011; the Bill on Amendments of the Law on the List of Agriculture in 2011 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Property of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the Act on the Treaty on the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia, the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia, the Amendment on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Act on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia, the Act on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Does MP Branko Ruzic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I put Mr. Branko Ruzic's proposal to vote. Of the 138 MPs, 127 voted for Mr Ruzic's proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda in general. Of the 137 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the proposal. I understand we've accepted the proposal. Please make professional services prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, submitted by the Government (number 351-739/11 of 21 February 2011); 2. Proposal for a Social Protection Act, submitted by the Government (number 55-3555/10 of 29 December 2010); 3. Proposal for a law on sport, submitted by the Government (number 66-3228/10 since 6 December 2010); 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Census, Households and Apartments Act 2011, which was submitted by the Government (number 207-5711 of 4 February 2011); 5. Proposal for a Law amending the 2011 Agricultural List Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 053-570/11 of 4 February 2011); 6. Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme from 2011 to 2015, which was submitted by the Government (number 05-2928/10 of 12 November 2010); 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 43-737/11 of 21 February 2011); 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, submitted by the Government (number 43-738/11 of 21 February 2011); 9. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of "Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank" a.d. Belgrade, under the authority of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-3499/10 of 24 December 2010); 10. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee to the German financial institution KfW under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija" (Project of Rehabilitation of HE Zvornik), which was submitted by the Government (number 400-3500/10 of 24 December 2010); 11. Proposal for a law confirming the credit agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-646/11 of 11 February 2011); 12. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters submitted by the Government (number 011-395/11 of 21 January 2011); 13. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Albania by accounts relating to goods traffic between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-568/11 of 4 February 2011); 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Third Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3421/10 of 20 December 2010); 15. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Missings, submitted by the Government (Number 011-3422/10 of 20 December 2010); 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on amendments and additions to the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on extradition, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-343/11 of 18 January 2011); 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal with the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal, which has been filed by the Government (number 2-3165/10 since 30 November 2010); 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the regulation of the border traffic regime, which was submitted by the Government (number 34-3166/10 of 30 November 2010); 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on police co-operation, which was submitted by the Government (number 2/3390/10 of 17 December 2010); 20. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamaica on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports submitted by the Government (No. 27-3134/10 of 29 November 2010 – The Government withdrew from the procedure, written on 3 March 2011); 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Final Acts of the World Radio Communication Conference (WRC-07), which was submitted by the Government (number 345-3137/10 since 29 November 2010); 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Veterinary Cooperation, which was submitted by the Government (number 323-3204/10 of 3 December 2010); 23. Proposal for a decision on the election of a president, deputy president and members of the Management Board of the Republic of electronic communications agency, which was submitted by the Government (number 02-694/11 of 17 February 2011); 24 Proposals for a candidate for the President and members of the Fiscal Council, submitted by authorised proposings: President of the Republic (number 119-3428/10 of 20 December 2010), Governor of the National Bank of Serbia (number 119-3498/10 of 24 December 2010) and Minister of Finance (number 119-437/11 of 27 January 2011); 25. List of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency of the Serbian University Conference, established by the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly (number 345-2407/10 of 30 September 2010); 26. Proposal for a candidate for a member of the Committee of the Anti-Corruption Agency, submitted by the Government (number 119-397/11 of 24 January 2011); 27 Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Serbian Health Council, which was submitted by the government (number 02-645/11 of 11 February 2011); 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty governing the liability of compensation for expenses between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-8611 of 28 February 2011); 29. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly of Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic (number 02-868/11 of 1 March 2011); 30. Proposal for a candidate for election of election members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors with permanent office (No 02-993/11 of 8 March 2011 – put on the agenda by emergency procedure on 14 March); 31. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of Judges (number 02-1002/11 of 8 March 2011 – put on the agenda under emergency procedure 14 March); 32. Proposal for a candidate for election of election members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors with permanent office (No 02-1213/11 of 28 March 2011 – put on the agenda under emergency procedure 31 March); 33. Proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly (set up on the agenda following the urgent procedure of 31 March). Dear People's MPs, before we move to work on the agenda, I would like to remind you that a group of 54 MPs of the SRS Group on 25 January 2011 submitted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support to the Family with Children to the Assembly procedure. In this regard, the President of the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 153. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly informed MP Lidija Dimitrijevic that the bill was not prepared in accordance with Article 151(4). Rules of Procedure, i.e. no statement of compliance with EU rules has been delivered with the draft law. On 31 January 2011, the National MP, Lidija Dimitrijevic, informed the President of the National Assembly that he was not in agreement with the opinion of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 153(2). The Rules of Procedure asked the National Assembly to plead on this issue at the first next session. Does National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic want to explain his position? Yeah. He's got five minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50805	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what has led us to submit to the Assembly for the adoption of this bill is the inability of a large number of families in Serbia to overcome a severe economic crisis. We all had opportunities to see publicly published data on the number of poor in Serbia. The position of our parliamentary group is that at a time of severe economic crisis every responsible government must make sure that citizens create preconditions to overcome the crisis, not to deal with itself alone. The decline in the standard of living of citizens is increasing from day to day. Many families fight in different ways to survive, while on the other hand we have the unseemly rich. We feel the responsibility of the authorities to suggest that citizens cannot cope alone with the difficulties that have hit them, because these are the years of the global economic crisis, and the crisis in Serbia takes much longer than this world crisis. This proposal to amend that law is one of the ways in which we do it. However, following the submission to the National Assembly, the answer was that the draft law was not prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that the non-compliance was examined in that we did not provide a statement that the bill was in line with EU rules. I will try to explain during this short time what changes we have proposed and why it is vital for the citizens of Serbia to consider these changes and to adopt the proposed amendments on the SRS initiative. Amendments to the Financial Support Act to families with children refer to two segments. The first aid is to families with children who have more than four children, through a change of provisions relating to the exercise of the right to a child's allowance, so that this right is achieved for all children. Also, we have suggested that the provisions of the Law relating to the exercise of the right to a parental supplement be amended so that this right can be realised for every lively child of the mother, not, as so far, until the fourth child. In part, we proposed this because of families that expect the birth of the fifth and sixth and each subsequent child, and the second part because of the long-term negative consequences seen in the fall of Serbia's birth. The Serbian Radical Party disagrees with the World Health Organization's view that adequate psychophysical development of children is possible in a family with up to four children. Otherwise, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of the Republic of Serbia supported this position. We are free to say that this is the easiest way for the government to avoid the obligation to provide families with more children with the necessary financial support. The position of the SRS parliamentary group is that EU accession is harmful to the citizens of Serbia and that an unnecessarily imperative is to adapt the legislation of the Republic of Serbia to EU legislation, especially when we know that in the European Union itself, the legislation of individual members is not in line with EU legislation. If we are aware of that fact, then we are aware that there are no legal obstacles to this bill submitted by the Serbian Radical Party on the agenda of today's session. The Serbian government is obliged to take care of the interests of its citizens, to enable Serbian citizens to survive this difficult time of crisis, and in particular to leave all of this as little negative consequences as possible to the development of children living in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, here is the opportunity to press the voting button to show how much responsibility it is to children in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50806	I ask the National Assembly to state whether the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of the 167 MPs, 35 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has declared that the bill does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also remind you that a group of 54 MPs of the SRS Group on 25 January 2011 submitted the draft law on additions to the Value Added Tax Act to the assembly procedure. In this regard, the president of the National Assembly is, in accordance with Article 153. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, informed the MP's representative, Dr Dejan Mirovic, that the bill was not prepared in accordance with Article 151(4). Rules of Procedure, i.e. no statement of compliance with EU rules has been delivered with the draft law. On 21 January 2011, MP Dejan Mirovic informed the National Assembly president that he was not in agreement with the opinion of the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 153(2). The Rules of Procedure asked the National Assembly to plead at the first next session on this issue. Does the MP's representative, Mr Dejan Mirovic, want to explain his position? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50807	Ladies and gentlemen, our second proposal is in line with Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic's proposal and this is about the public knowing what the essence of the proposal is about reducing VAT on bread, milk, flour, textbooks and baby equipment. So it's a concrete proposal to ease the burden of the economic crisis, which obviously affects the poorest parts of the population most, which is in line with the economic theory that VAT is essentially an unfair economic tax, because it affects equal to all layers of the population, so also those who are the richest and the poorest. However, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government and the other pro-Brist authorities in this country obviously did not hear about our proposals, which are constructive and which are aimed at the overall improvement of all our citizens. They answered, I must say, in a scandalous way, that the proposal, which is primarily directed towards our citizens, is not in line with the Aki communiqué and with the law of the European Union! You will allow it to be a legal, economic and in any other sense a scandal. First, the Republic of Serbia is not an EU member and our party advocates that it will never be, not only because of Kosovo and Metohija, but also because of the harmfulness, in economic terms, of joining the European Union for Eastern European countries. We asked Prime Minister Cvetkovic on Thursday if there is a cost-benefit analysis for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. It does not exist, so it is not clear exactly whether, in economic terms, membership in the European Union will bring us more harm than benefits. It's a kind of scandal, in economic terms. In a legal sense, I will remind the distinguished colleagues and the public, as early as 1993, the German constitutional court reached a verdict on the adoption of the Maastricht Agreement, where German law is said to be. the basic law or constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany above the Aki communitre. If the EU's leading country, which gives the most funding for the budget and whose territory is the main, factual, EU body, the European Central Bank, considers its national law above Aki communitre, I see no reason why the Republic of Serbia would go ahead of such a principled stance. It's completely inexplicable in a legal sense, in a moral and every other way. Also, I would remind you that the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Klaus, was almost visiting the Republic of Serbia. He then stated, as in his book, that the euro as a currency is an artificial project because there are no common taxes in the EU. It is just amazing that if there are no common taxes in the EU, there is not one harmonised fiscal policy, but only one political project such as the euro, which can't be justified in the economic sense for a long time, we are here trying to bring the taxes of the Republic of Serbia into line with EU taxes, which are essentially not existing but are divided into countries. Therefore, this is completely inexplicable and we believe that this response draws attention from the main issue, that there is no harmonised tax policy in the EU. I would refer to a single topic, which is the problem of double excise duties. It is scandalous that a meeting of the SAA Implementation Committee is being held on 22 March, a day before the Russian prime minister will arrive. This should be seen as a kind of provocation or a kind of preparation to bring excise duties to a level that does not correspond to the Serbian-Russian company, I stress, not to Russian, but to a Serbian-Russian company, such as NIS. So again, the phrase that "the EU has no alternative" above our citizens, above the interests of our businesses; as we have seen, even something that is in social and any other sense good is being rejected, which is reducing VAT for the most vulnerable parts of the population. It is clear that the EU is above citizens, above our economic interests and I can only appeal on my behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary group to change that position because the Russian prime minister is finally coming to you after ten years. It is the only economic, export and development opportunity of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50808	I ask that the National Assembly be made aware of whether the draft law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of the 174 MPs, 48 came out. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the bill has not been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Planning and Construction Laws (Principles) You have received a proposal for this law. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated to the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, to the SRS Parliamentary Group one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, to the G17 Group plus 28 minutes and 48 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia 25 minutes and 12 seconds, to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica Group 24 minutes, to the SPS-JS Group 18 minutes, to the MP group LDP 14 minutes and 24 seconds, to the New Serbia Group 10 minutes and 48 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group of Minorities eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS three minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković, MP Judita Popovic, MP of the LDP, MP Dejan Radenkovic, MP of the SPS-JS, MP Dragan Stevanovic, MP of the SRS and MP Bojana Stanojevic, MP of the ZES Group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, I congratulate you on the beginning of a regular session, and I hope that together we will do everything in our power to make the country progress, to pass good laws and to, of course, apply them. Today, you are facing an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction, an important system law that governs several extremely important areas in our country. As you know, two years ago we were here in parliament with the Law on Planning and Construction, and then we have already announced that it is likely that during the term of office of this government it will be necessary to amend and supplement the law when, by applying new standards, we notice certain implementation problems. Meanwhile, there have been several rulings by the Constitutional Court that have put some of the norms out of force, and there has been a need to introduce improvements in several areas, in terms of speeding up existing procedures or precision of some norms, as well as compliance with the laws that have been passed before or which have been passed in the meantime. So, if you ask the question why we have entered the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, it is not because we would give up the reform course and introduce order in these areas promoted by the 2009 law, but rather to strengthen and confirm our insistence on the adoption of planning documents, to specify and speed up the introduction of private property on construction land, to speed up the procedure for issuing a building permit and, hopefully, finally, after the decision the law offers, we would end a big process that hurts almost the whole of Serbia, which is the legalisation process. What is important to say immediately at the beginning, the reason for the adoption of this law is not to give up the conversion of the right to use in the right of property with compensation, nor to allow those who need to pay not to do so. The reason is to create an opportunity for the conversion to be completed as soon as possible, to put a large amount of building land into operation and finally complete the process. I repeat, what is extremely important is that all the reform processes that have started, which include the introduction of order into such a derelict area as construction and urbanism, continue and finish. I'd like to start by breaking a few delusions that certain circles have tried to create about the 2009 law. One of the greatest delusions is that the 2009 law has stopped the construction operation. Its adoption coincided with the global economic crisis, which overly affected the construction sector and the building investment sector, i.e. real estate transport. The global economic crisis also occurred when large countries, where huge money in the real estate sector is being turned, were shot by a "balon" that was high because of large investments in the area. In Serbia, the global economic crisis has led to a drastic decline in demand for housing and business space, and the need to build new spaces falls drastically. The proof is that only in Belgrade at the moment are permits to build over a million square metres of residential space, which is business space, and that these sites are not yet open because the demand does not exist. The demand does not exist because the difficult economic situation has hit those who need to buy it, because the banks have tightened the criteria, because there is less and less project financing. So, all in all, the construction sector is mostly in crisis because of the impact of the global economic crisis. The evidence is that only in last year in Europe, five million construction workers lost their jobs. Unfortunately, between 20,000 and 40,000 construction workers ran out of work in Serbia last year. It is precisely the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which include building large housing complexes, as well as building several hundred large construction projects in the cities and municipalities of our country, that I am sure that this year these people will return to work and help the construction sector be one of the engines of Serbia's economic recovery. Of course, major problems in this area have also been caused by problems in the reorganisation of the Republic Geodesy Institute, in the operation of the real estate catastra, and in quite an obstruction in certain secretaries of urbanism in some cities that the law is consistently applied and order is introduced. For all these reasons, we are before you today with amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, believing that after these amendments and additions, with insistence on the consistent implementation of these amendments and additions, the problem of strengthening our administrative capacities and the implementation of all the obligations in the implementation of this law will be removed from the agenda. Let's take it in a row. Amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction have tried to regulate four areas. First of all, it's a matter of urban planning. What I can briefly say is that by amending and supplementing this law, we have made it easier for local self-government to amend the planning documents, to implement the project faster, and that we have abolished the obligation to develop the concept of the plan for less complex planning documents. We introduced a simpler procedure for the adoption of detailed regulation plans in the Assembly when it comes to building municipal infrastructure, as well as the possibility of issuing one location permit on several cadastrian plots when it comes to building large complexes. It must be clear to all that Serbia has entered the process of introducing order when it comes to the adoption of spatial and urban acts. We are very proud of the fact that because of the existence of our firm insistence, but also the political will at local level, today there is almost no municipality that is not in any of the final stages of making a local spatial plan, which is a regulatory plan that will have sufficient level of regulation that local permits can be issued based on it. For the next few years, Serbia will for the first time in its history be fully covered by plans, which by urban acts. It's a huge contribution, and all of us together have contributed to the introduction of order in this area at last. Practically, it will mean that, for example, The city of Belgrade finally, after many years and a lot of problems in terms of urban regulation, we hope by mid next year, to come up with a regulatory plan that will entail a sufficient level of regulation so that local permits can be issued on almost the entire territory of the city. It's an extremely big progress, and I'm sure any one of you who understands that in this area will welcome it. What's left of the problem is that one significant part of the municipalities is still late in bringing these acts. I think that, as a state, by adopting the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia and by continuing insistence, in terms of inspection and in terms of political pressure on local self-government to carry out their part of the obligations, we have contributed to resolving this problem. You can always put different dates in the law; and in 2003, when the Law on Planning and Construction was passed, deadlines were given to local self-governments in which they had to bring their plans, and as far as spatial planning and urban planning are concerned. Unfortunately, then there was a change in government and there was no political will for Serbia to settle in this way. What is a qualitative shift compared to that time is that today there is a political will for Serbia to settle. As far as the issue of construction land is concerned, we have introduced several amendments and clarifications to the 2009 Law to address several problematic situations that have arisen in the practice and implementation of this law. What was a major problem, and as a result of a quiet obstruction of the administration, it is the payment of the transfer of agricultural land to those areas that are undoubtedly urban or urban areas. So it happened that in the centers of large cities, just because there is not an up-to-date catastre that will show that the land is no longer agricultural, corn or orchard fields, but from a long time ago it's been an urban zone, the catastres insist on paying for the re-use of land. It's happened in a lot of cases. I must say that the insistence on it, regardless of the tenacious interpretation of the law, was sent to all the catastrists, which meant that it was not for urban zones, was to throw out the law of mockery and attempt to obstruct. I'm sorry it happened. With these amendments and additions to the Law, we have clearly defined that no compensation is paid for the transfer of agricultural land to building land, if the change was made by 1992, by law, by means of a plan document or by a decision of the unit of local self-government which defined those zones as city zones. Local self-government will have the obligation to deliver to motifs of immobilities within a clearly defined deadline, which are areas that are no longer areas of agricultural work, rather than areas for urban housing. We also introduced a newspaper when it comes to building land – we have defined that undeveloped building land can be introduced as a founding role in companies. This is how we created the possibility of creating a public private partnership in the construction sector. We believe that local self-government, which will soon, hopefully, become the owners of building land, will be able, on the one hand, to exploit the resource of building land for which they do not have the money to develop it and, on the other hand, to open new construction sites together with private ones in which they will find their common interest. The government of the Republic of Serbia will define public procurement procedures when it comes to the process. As for the question of the conversion of the right of use to property, first of all, we believe that we have brought in one newspaper that involves a great saving for our citizens, which is that we have deleted the obligation to submit a copy of the immovable property record when it comes to the conversion of the right of use to property for natural persons, which everyone does without compensation. We've also defined the automatic acquisition of property rights on unbuilt land for persons who have the right to convert without compensation if they have entered the right to use. In this way we have solved a major problem that existed in the implementation of the previous law; we have equated city-building and city-building land, and one and the other will be able to be the subject of conversion. One MP here has submitted an amendment that will mean automatic conversion, not a conversion that goes according to the request of our citizens, which we are likely to accept. We believe that in this way, when it comes to non-refundable conversion, we will significantly speed up and raise to quality. As far as the fee conversion is concerned, in addition to the introduction of certain provisions in the regulation, we have introduced a single newspaper into the law, which is that the local self-government unit, on the basis of the act, can, through urban areas, determine the market value of the building land. The conversion in use had several essential problems. One of the problems was that we do not have within the state apparatus an adequate institution that is able to make a quality assessment of the market value of land. It happened that these estimates were largely overrated and that there was no interest in those who should be able to convert to those prices. When we changed the Regulation and when we introduced the evaluators we took one qualitative step in the sense that people who professionally deal with the estimates of the market value of land can do it in a better way, but then we encountered another problem – that within other institutions, if there is no confirmation by tax administrations, and tax administrations had a problem to confirm such assessments, there is no one who will be willing to sign, to end the conversion process themselves. That is why we felt that the biggest reason for late conversion was precisely the assessment of the market value of land and that there is, quite logically, the possibility that local self-governments, which normally charge through urban zones for the use of construction land, would be possible fortification and the market value of building land. We are sure that this way we will significantly speed up the conversion process. What I have to say is that where it is clear and obvious that the conversion will go without any actual payment, because the much higher price of capital spent on obtaining that right of use, or the total capital invested in the company, relative to market value, things go without a problem. In any case, regardless of this solution, we will insist that those who bought our businesses and factories, not because of continuing production processes, hiring people and modernising businesses, but to close them down and wait for a good time to exploit adequate building land, must pay the state, or local self-government and the Restitution Fund. As for the procedure for issuing building permits, we have introduced several newspapers that I am sure will finally solve the problem of the slow and bureaucratised process of issuing a building permit. There is no obligation to obtain consent to the main infrastructure integration project, except in exceptional cases where it is provided for by a local authorisation, and there will be no need to wait again for consent when the whole authorisation procedure is completed. The competent authority issuing the building permit, the Department of Urbanism, will only be able, in accordance with this law, to request the completion of the documentation once. It happened that an object processor wanted to supplement the documentation, while the documentation of the processor was being collected and when you collected the documentation he asked for, you came to the Department of Urbanism, this new processor asked you for five more papers, and in the meantime the validity of some of these documents expires. So you've been spinning around for months, if not years, and you can't complete the paperwork, which is completely clear and clean. For this reason we have introduced a legal obligation – you have the right to ask for only once a supplement, the moment it is completed you must continue the procedure for issuing the permit. Also, we have introduced a newspaper on the possibility of using an object when it comes to issuing a used permit. Even when a technical reception commission was formed, their activity was extremely slow and waited months for the facility to move in. For this reason, we have introduced the possibility of using the facility without the use of the permit, of course, with the acceptance of the risk by those who use the facility, if the competent authority does not decide on the use of the permit within 90 days. One of the newspapers is that it will allow the issue of a building permit with an idea project that has been completed and with which a technical control report has been given, and that the main project is handed over before issuing the used permit to stay in the archive. He will no longer be controlled by the administration, but will be confirmed by the profession, which has the appropriate licenses. Also, with these amendments and additions to the law, we have now put everything that was provided for in the sublaws and as far as stage construction is concerned into the law. We're sure that we'll finally have this good idea that right after the location permit is issued, if there's a project of a constructive assembly that's confirmed by a technical profession, it can be entered into the construction site, while all other consents are awaited... One of the papers amending and supplementing this law has solved one of the problems that have been ecldentary examples of the abuse of the position of administration and the clean harassment of our citizens, as regards the insistence on issuing a local building permit when it comes to current maintenance – painting, painting, changing toilets, changing sanitary facilities, changing parquets, etc. Anyone who dared to ask the citizens for a local building permit means a complete procedure for it, has been very consciously mocking both the law and the state, and harassing the citizens. Anyone who gets mad at these people has every right, because it shouldn't have been done under any law. These people have tried to bring absurdity to this whole procedure that involves the introduction of order. I think with these amendments and the additions to the law, the clarifications, which absolutely no longer create a problem for anyone in the head in which such cases are treated, we're finally going to put an end to it. So, you don't need any permission and you won't need any permission to paint, paint, cover replacements, sanitarys, radiators or anything like that. As regards investment maintenance, which includes all other activities in the apartment, which do not involve changes in static or electricity, or all those interventions that still require professional work and professional supervision, not even an idea project is produced, but only a list and technical description of the works (which can also be done by masters who do so) and is reported to local self-government that certain works will be held in the house. It's significantly faster and cheaper. We are sure that this is how we solved the problem that has been happening to tens of thousands of people in Serbia because of the malicious interpretation of the legal provisions. In the end, I think it takes a little time to dedicate both the legalisation process and our intention to finally complete legalisation in Serbia, to create conditions for all those who want to complete the legalisation process to get maximum discounts now, first of all as regards the collection of documents, then as regards initial payment, finally, as regards the payment of compensation for the construction land, to finally complete and legalise Serbia. At the very beginning of the presentation on this, of course, the first question should be asked, has the illegal construction stopped since the adoption of the 2009 Law? Unfortunately, it is not, but it has significantly less than it was in previous periods because we have strengthened inspection surveillance, given much greater authority to inspection; for the first time the state has started building its facilities with adequate permits and thus being an example to everyone that there is no construction site opening and no works until all adequate permits are issued. I think we have managed to encourage other citizens to go according to the law and that we have made a good balance between the implementation of legal standards when it comes to inspection and the possibility to quickly meet investors. There remains a huge problem hundreds of thousands of illegally built buildings, whose owners have entered the legalisation process for several reasons. The first reason is high initial costs, for which our citizens do not have the resources in the situation they are in. The second reason is – there is still extensive documentation, the lack of all relevant plans, because the plan base was a condition for legalisation, urban parameters were a condition for legalisation, unresolved property relations on building land, a huge number of houses built on land of failed social enterprises, on land that was acquired in various ways, and not in accordance with the law, because it was prohibited to transport land. They were all problems where people stopped because they couldn't collect the paperwork. By amending and supplementing this law, we have abolished everything that was a problem when it comes to collecting paper. The only thing that will not be legalized will be those objects that are built in protected cultural goods, protected by natural goods, waterscapings, near roads that are very important, objects that are from unconditional material, which are built on slides; for all those objects for which in the old law it was forbidden to legalise remains that ban. All other de facto objects that exist in the space and do not belong to these categories will be able to be legalized, according to us, to the fastest and best possible procedure so far. We made it possible primarily for local self-governments to enter into the process of collecting the necessary documentation to complete the legalisation, and after signing the contract, on behalf of the citizens. Local self-government will negotiate with the geodetic and engineering profession all those perpetrators who are supposed to make a geodetic video of the facility, i.e. make a technical report. We have also introduced great discounts in the cataster of immovableity, when it comes to obtaining documentation for municipalities, and at the expense of citizens. What is also important, we will allow these contracts to be signed as soon as possible. A significant number of people will be hired through public works, to go to the homes of those who need to be legalised and to offer them the opportunity to sign the contract. What is a good thing, for this initial cost, which was about 500 euros for a 100-square house, the municipality will allow payment over a four-year period. In this way, we will bring the initial cost at the monthly level to a price that is acceptable to every family in Serbia, even for those families that are socially at risk; it is a few dozen dinars to solve the problem. As for the payment of compensation for the construction land, we made a difference between our citizens compared to whether the buildings were built in the first, extra zone or in the second, lower zones. On the other hand, we made a difference when it comes to social status, or whether the object that is legalized is built for example. for the market or it is an object that has been built by the family solely for the sake of its own housing, which does not own another facility, which has been resident in that address for more than a year and fulfils other conditions concerning the proof of that social position. For those who did not build in the first, extra zone, for those who did not build economic facilities or market facilities, for those who only built because it was a social need a valid discount of 99% for the first hundred squares, or 25 squares per capita, and for the other hundred squares the discount will be 60%. All of this can lead to the conclusion of legalisation, because legalisation has become very simple – in fact, on behalf of the citizens of the municipality they collect papers – and almost free. Who doesn't legalize the facility now, it's not about him not being able to do it anymore because he's not in a position to be able and not in a financial capacity, but only about someone who doesn't want to do it. I call upon all citizens to legalize the facilities. When they appear to them from the community at the door and offer them the opportunity to collect documents on their behalf and offer them all these discounts that the law will define, I call on them to do so, to sign contracts and to let the process end on their own. In the end, I want to thank everyone who helped us get to the changes and additions to this law. Several parliamentary groups have been extremely active in this. I want to thank the LDP Parliamentary Group, which, with several very good initiatives, has helped us to understand some legal norms and to speed up procedures in several segments. I would also like to thank the other MPs who have followed this with great interest and certainly to the expert public who helped us get to the law. When adopted in the form we have proposed, along with a large number of amendments that we will accept, submitted by the MPs, the law will, I am sure, finally round up the construction of a legal network for the introduction of order into these two extremely difficult, unsettled and abandoned areas. Thank you. I hope for a useful and fruitful debate during today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50810	I thank Mr. Secretary. I ask if the representatives of the committees, Mr Nesovic and Mr Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, gentlemen of fellow Members, in the process of adopting important system laws, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has, in addition to other obligations, always had an obligation to comply with the laws of the European Union, in part or in full. This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction is fully harmonised, although there are no specific relevant EU rules to ensure compliance with the rules. We must bear in mind that there are no provisions in the adoption of this law on the primary sources of EU law relating to the draft law, and no secondary sources of rights that would be taken into account when adopting this law. We also point out that the draft law was not attended by a variety of consultants, to which so far a number of MPs have made objections and objections. According to the statement, this law will represent our uniform solution of serious and responsible matter, without which adoption some of the jobs are related to planning and construction, to the blockade of construction operations and the blockade of all dependent subcontractors, i.e. contractors and equipment manufacturers and funds spent in construction. The adoption of this law eliminates all obligations arising from the provisions of the SAA between the EU and the current or future Member States. The law regulates the conditions and the way in which space is used, then, the planning and use of building land, building buildings, overseeing the application of the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, inspection supervision, as well as all other issues of importance for the editing of space, editing and use of building land. It is necessary to note that the provisions of this law do not apply to the construction of objects that are statusally designated as military facilities. They also do not refer to building objects that determine the status of mining facilities, which is also very important. The amendments and additions of the Law on Planning and Construction offer and determine the original, our, Serbian solution, which is now all legal expressions related to urban reconstruction and construction, for land, put into the context of all holders of property and all depositors of responsibility, both for the construction and construction of part of our urban plans and the construction of the country. Good definitions were given and the PUPS considered them to be sustainable and functional, primarily the definitions of the inhabited town, the definition of the city, the village, the definition of the construction area, building complexes, investors, contractors, etc. It is particularly important for us to now effectively define economic facilities for animal breeding, from large animals facilities to agricultural storage facilities, such as barns, baskets, freezers, production halls, etc., which is of exceptional importance for agriculture. In practice, these precise and precise definitions will help to properly resolve all issues of line infrastructure facilities, such as public roads, power lines, pipelines, superstructures as part of buildings. The law accurately regulates all types of works that precede the construction of buildings, which relate to: the destruction of existing buildings, the transfer of existing infrastructures on parcels, the clearing of the terrain, and the provision of space for the supply and accommodation of construction materials and equipment for the construction, construction and installation of buildings, the installation and equipment of temporary character, as well as the mandatory security of adjacent facilities, i.e. respect for high demand works on statics, capacity and the endurance of the terrain on which it is built. In the draft law no longer allows any committee or any avoidance of the rules of the profession, nor the avoidance of responsibilities for the quality and sustainability of the buildings built. In the PUPS Group, it was important for us, in addition to the rest of this law, to preserve all elements of environmental protection in which urban and technical documents are used to implement plans and build so-called "urban and technical documents". smart objects, which will protect all objectives and principles of spatial development and planning and all principles and proposition of protection, arrangements and further development of nature and natural goods based on SWOT analysis. We are pleased that the law imposes full respect for the principles of spatial development and distribution of the population, as well as the principles of a network of settlements and public services, with the concept and proposition of the spatial development of the economy. The PUPS parliamentary group is aware that this law requires the harmonisation of opposing and hard-to-compliant measures to protect, regulate and improve natural and cultural goods with the necessary needs that impose the projected plan objectives of common spatial and developmental features for the needs of our citizens. We believe that the concept and the proposition of spatial development of the economy are in line with the arrangements and preparation of the territory for the purposes of the country's defence, but also with environmental protection measures. The bill, according to us, correctly defines all regulatory plans, both lower and higher order and significance, and especially the plans of general regulation of space and plans to divide space into specific continents and zones. We think that this law obliges corridors and capacities for traffic, energy, municipal, agricultural and other infrastructures to be placed in the context of all plans of detailed regulation with regulations, construction bans until their final adoption and adoption. We agree and we will support the law's insistence that all objects comply with strict rules of regulation and construction across continents and zones for which it is not and for which it is intended to adopt a detailed urban regulation plan, which so far has not been. In this way, the need for legalization of objects will never arise again, whether it is later or temporary, because it will not come into such a situation that by calling upon a subsequent mind to admit something that has not fulfilled any of the binding elements of Article 26 of the Law, which we really support. We believe that the law now takes a complex look at the plans of detailed regulation for parts of the settlements, for regulating informal settlements, for regulating the urban reconstruction zone, for regulating the infrastructure corridors, as well as for regulating the facilities of general, municipal and energy infrastructures, consistent with the plan of units of local self-government. Perhaps it is positive that a large part of these obligations are now returning to local self-government. We believe that the law now has a complex view and plans for detailed regulation for parts of populated places to deal with situations that have not been arranged so far, and were related to protected natural goods. In an analysis of the draft law, the PUPS Group specifically assessed legislative solutions related to plans for detailed regulation of the area in which it is planned and built, bearing in mind that these parts of the law regulate issues from the jurisdiction of local self-government. The law has well defined the boundaries of the plan and the scope of the construction area, the detailed purpose of the land; the regulatory lines of the streets, public areas, the leveling angles of those areas are correctly established, as well as the capacity corridors for traffic, municipal and other infrastructures. We support clear, certain rules of regulation and the rules of construction that the law prescribes throughout the continents and zones, as well as the prescribed other elements of importance for local regulation. We are satisfied with the solutions that the law specifically gives for the rules governing areas with special purposes through which a mandatory degree of municipal equipment is established throughout the continents or zones, minimum conditions for regulating areas and facilities for public purposes and, especially for us, the conditions and measures for the protection of natural and cultural heritage, environmental conditions and general conditions for regulating space important for the life and health of people and especially for persons with disabilities, which has not been the case so far. The PUPS parliamentary group supports the solution set out in this proposal, in particular the part of the law establishing documents of spatial and urban planning that must be harmonised in order of jurisdiction, from local, municipal, to regional and republican level. The obligation of public insight into all documents of spatial and urban planning will bring this law to the full and will have the dominant impact of those parties and citizens who will feel the most legal fact of these documents. With all due attention, starting with the principle of responsibility and the principle of household business, our parliamentary group looked at the solutions arising from the right to use space on unbuilt construction land in state property, and in accordance with the earlier applicable laws that were regulated by the construction land by 13 May 2003. The co-workers of Mr. Minister and Minister know what we are talking about, i.e. the need to regulate things differently from this date. The conversion of rights on this basis, which has been given to units of local self-government responsible for property and legal affairs, has prompted both us and in general the public of Serbia to completely oppose opinions and conflicts, both legally and economically, without the successful end of conflicts of interest outside court processes. It is not easy for the right to convert the use into property rights to be determined in favour of the unit of local self-government and to be processed and judged at the level of the Republic. We believe that the debate on the principle and the amendment and the debate in particular should respond to the correct application of all long-term lease rights on unbuilt land in state property, and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction of 2003, 2006 and 2009. We support the country's insistence that, in international contracts, definitive agreements on conflict issues be implemented as soon as possible for the purposes of the uncontested right of use of land, which can be converted into property rights in addition to compensation, and after the end of the prescribed procedure for the return of that property. We believe that land conversion should be prohibited in the possession of privatised business entities in city building land, regardless of the cost of conversion fees in multiple amounts, which would be prescribed by the Government, because this devises the objective of privatisation, which is the continuation of the production programme and the social programme for employment in the privatisation entity that wants conversion. In the process of analysing the draft laws on planning and construction, our parliamentary group came across a very complicated issue of restitution, i.e. the issue of the return of property nationalised after World War II. We are aware of the fact that all political parties in the declared objectives and priorities have tried to, in co-operation with citizens' return associations, correctly establish and resolve the recovery procedures that have been nationalised. Many of us have burdened us with the issue of conversion of the right of use to property on building land that once belonged to other owners and users, because in most cases there would have to be a large number of laws that regulate the issue of confiscation of property, the question of procedures for their compensation, the question of legalisation and the question of correct compensation, whether in natural, physical or monetary compensation. The PUPS parliamentary group will advocate public interest in the broadest possible sense, which must be protected by the effective completion of the start-up restitution procedures, with the provision of all the law-based conditions and principles for the return of property to persons entitled to it. In voting day, PUPS will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50812	The word has a folk MP, Vice-President Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50813	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are once again facing one law on planning and construction, after two years of failure since the law came into force. It is obvious that the government is still unprepared to pass some very important laws, which had to be passed before the Law on Planning and Construction even came to the Assembly's agenda, which are the Law on Public Property, the Law on Restitution and Denationalisation, the Law on the Return of Property to Municipalities and Cities and the AP Vojvodina. These are some laws that were a prerequisite for any such system law to produce good results and achieve the ambitions that the promoter had when the law was released into the procedure. In addition to the fact that this law lacks a foundation, it is obvious that after two years of not being full, the whole law does not give the results that have been declared and which are expected of it, there are even certain faults that are systemic, embedded in writing the law itself. In fact, this law had the ambition to bring together several areas, which are too complicated and too large to be included in a single law, such as the Law on Planning and Construction. The law was meant to regulate the issue of planning documents, construction and other permits, its transformation, legalisation. You will allow, these are so different areas, in one Serbia that is still going through a complicated period of transition, and it is simply impossible to apply the law in practice and to facilitate citizens to regulate some of their very important issues under this law. That is why we are in a position to ask questions again, as we asked questions in July 2009, when we discussed the draft law on planning and construction. Do these amendments and additions of laws simplify administrative procedures? Is the procedure more transparent, as suggested in these amendments and additions? Is the responsibility of the participants in this process that enables the Law on Planning and Construction? Is legal security increased? Are the tight throats removed in the application of this law? You're going to let me give you a heads-up, and I think the minister was talking about it. It's, say, a geodetic institute, a catastrophe of immovableity, secretaries of urbanism, appraisers. So, all those who would and how would have to deal with the law and know what the real purpose and purpose of this law is and what is expected of its application. We got everything but simplification, transparency, accountability and legal certainty. The government then resorted to some regulations that made the situation even more complicated. As a result, this Law on Planning and Construction and how it affected the difficult position of the construction industry. I would not agree with the definition of the minister that the global economic crisis is the only cause of the general collapse of the construction industry, the one branch that is important for this economy, which employs over 120,000 workers, which pays every 100 dinars in taxes of 63 dinars, in a country where more than 900,000 people are officially unemployed. The construction industry is really affected by this law, precisely because all the bottlenecks that have been listed have stopped certain procedures to make the construction industry function and operate in the system. If the construction industry had to work and produce in accordance with the laws, it simply could not pass those procedures. If these procedures were respected, the construction industry had to experience some kind of collapse because the law was applied, or simply not applied because it was not known how to apply. Unfortunately, in these changes and additions, we still have some weaknesses. I'm not saying that this bill is entirely wrong, that there are no good solutions, however, those basic weaknesses, those systemic weaknesses that have been incorporated into the Law on Planning and Construction have obviously remained or have been slightly painted and slightly changed. By reading the legislative proposal, let's say, it can be seen that it is still a very complicated procedure and that complicated solutions are given for some ordinary issues and for some ordinary things that in practice that bureaucrat or official must work in this process of co-operation with a citizen who has approached to ask for a permit to legalize something, do a conversion or something like that. As an example, I would like to cite the complexity of the procedure, Article 70. The law on planning and construction, which by an ambitious proposal in this new legal solution is trying to change to the entire three pages of the text. I am interested in how that official will be able to define the right intention of the legislator and make sense of this law when the law is applied, if this member is adopted in this original exercise in the vote? I would cite as one serious mistake, a systemic error of this law and writing the law in the sense of a Lex specialist. As a good example, I would like to cite these new solutions from Article 103 of the Law, which clearly indicate that some individual problem that clearly exists in Belgrade is the basis for the whole law to be adapted to this problem. I don't think it's good when individual solutions are built into the law. The law has a far more serious purpose and purpose. The law will apply to a much wider area than Belgrade. The law should have some general importance, not some special problem. In particular, it is the final position of this member which defines that the land defined as a port area will not be able, as long as it has port area status, to be subject to conversion. And I don't want to get into whether this kind of solution was meant to get a certain populist point, that one demagogue solution actually complicated the whole conversion procedure, or that it was someone else's intention. In 2009, however, we also pointed out that a very big problem with the law is that some acquired rights are at stake; it is about certain property rights, such as private property acquired during privatisation, during bankruptcy or executive proceedings. The question is why is it so insistent on this kind of conversion, which has been given as a solution and originally, and why is it resorting to some kind of blurry and makeup of the whole of this new legislative solution, when it is very well seen from this bill that when the conversion with the State's compensation will not benefit if it gives certain opportunities for the costs, which were recorded during the privatisation, execution or bankruptcy, to continue to be taken into account and revolving, thus assessing the value of this building land that should be converted from social property to private property? So these are the problems that are and how the rest of the contents of this law are. I think that the property transformation issue should be distinguished from these other issues and areas that regulate some new legal solutions, which will primarily be content to process this segment of transition in Serbia in order to finally obtain both the desired legal certainty and the precondition for future economic development and future investments that are so needed. The legislator, whenever he resorts to adopting a new law or amending an existing law, must have clear goals, must have a clear definition of the problem he wants to regulate by law and must have a certain vision of how he thinks these problems are being solved by this new legal solution. First of all, he must have in mind how this law will apply in practice. Unfortunately, in 2009, all these conditions were not taken into account in order to pass a good law, and it is obvious that these amendments and additions did not take due account of it, so I would not be surprised if we had some draft law on amendments and additions to these established amendments and additions in recent years. Therefore, the Liberal Democratic Party, no matter how ready it is to support all legislative solutions that have a certain weight, in terms of European integration, cannot support the amendments and additions to one bad law, cannot give support unless these changes and additions are essential and really qualitatively do not change the content of existing laws. For co-operation, however, this co-operation must be conditioned by a goodwill or a fundamental change in the legislator, which can be recognised in the text of the draft law on the agenda of the Assembly. Therefore, this law is also one of the laws most likely to be adopted in this assembly, but will continue to pose a major obstacle to economic development and above all to the development of the construction industry in Serbia. I think it's inadmissible and I don't think we have time to play with legal proposals and we're just trying to cover up and get off the agenda, even temporarily.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50814	Thank you. I give my word to the MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50815	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, on the agenda is an extremely important law. As the minister said, this law was discussed nearly two years ago, sometime in the summer of 2009. It regulates the area of planning, spatial and urban, the area of construction, building land, defines the engineering chamber, regulates the area of legalisation. It's an extremely important law. I'll quote Minister Dulic two years ago. He said, "On the World Bank reference list, when comparing the quality of the world's legal framework for innovation, Serbia is in 94th place, among the 181 world economy. It's not good and it has to change. But the fact that Serbia is inaccessible 171 when it comes to obtaining a building permit is the alarm that called us for deep reforming in this procedure and putting it on the list of rational priorities. “ When such words are heard, that Serbia is in 171st place on such a reference list, that is certainly a reason to intervene. The importance of the building should not be particularly highlighted. I would just quote a recently published OECD study, which says that in the most developed countries in the world, the contribution of construction, the construction of a gross social product is about 7%; 7% is just a building. The world's most developed countries, the European Union, as an organisation, association, the United States and Japan, employ forty million people in construction. When a project is implemented, ten people who are directly employed in construction are hired by eight other people in the local community, in a place where the project is realised. This is especially important for the economy, but also for the regulation of all these areas. The law should define procedures, they should be reasonably long, reasonably complicated and reasonably expensive. It's the only way we can have good law. This law came into force more than 18 months ago. There was plenty of time to analyze his application. The minister said that this law has changed because it has seen the need for some procedures to be defined more precisely, to comply with the views of the courts and to remove some of the problems that existed, and they are related to decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have brought down certain members of this law, or the views of individual members. It's always good to do an analysis. The basic question is what kind of analysis was made for the application of this law? We didn't have a chance to see one such analysis, except the minister said he wouldn't give up the reform course and that he would just remove some minimal shortcomings. Instead, one such analysis was done by the World Bank, according to the minister, a reference institution and a reference list. They analysed the process of obtaining a building permit and this is a 2011 list, so they analysed primarily what happened in 2010 and legislation and application in 2010 and for these few months in 2011. As they analyse 183 (no more 181) countries of the world now, they have the term “a shortened time for processing requirements”, so there are: Benin, Burkina Faso, DR Congo, Croatia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Peru. Simplification of procedures – there is Ivory Coast, Kazakhstan, Croatia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine. New laws were given to Croatia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Romania last year. The reduced costs are in Burkina Faso, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the like. One stop shop was made: Kazakhstan, Paraguay, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia. If you noticed, I haven't read Serbia anywhere, there is no Serbia on this list among these positive effects. But there is one on the first page, Serbia is no longer in 171st place, but is now in 176th place according to the application procedure; in these few years it has been repaired, and with 94th now in 89th place. So, new law, new procedures, accelerated procedures, and from 171st place, we're in 176th place. We disagree, and we said that two years ago, with the concept of law. This is an extremely important matter, and even then we didn't understand the reason why the matter of at least a few laws was found in one law. We still believe that planning is a special thing, as it used to be in one law; construction land had to be defined by a special law; the engineering chamber is defined by a special law in all countries, deserves to have a special law, which is before we have experience. The lawyer's chamber has its own law, the health workers' chamber has its own law, the pharmaceutical chamber has its own law, and we don't see any reason for the engineering chamber to be defined with just a few members of the law. Of course, legalization would have to have its own law. That's when we expressed our suspicion of the concept, and now we're expressing our suspicion of the concept. If we look at individual solutions within this concept, we think that they are still unclear and inaccurate and that they will create additional, new problems, which are not easy to solve. I'll try in these 15 minutes to point only to some, since there's a vagueness to the exaggeration. Article 2 defines the concepts in this law. Point 28 defines the preparatory work. Among other things, the preparatory work is making spikes or spikes fields under the object. Gentlemen, these are not preparatory works, these are the most important constructive construction works, and in no way can they be subjected to preparatory work. If you subdue the spikes below the object, if you're building an object, you have to have a complete static analysis of the entire object and that's the most important constructive element in each building, it's a foundation. It's not prep work. This is especially important because you continue to give the possibility to work through preparatory work in some phases. Funding has never been and will never be a preparatory work. I don't know how it went, you haven't changed it, but this investor register that was supposed to run local self-government units, wherever I was asking, it doesn't exist anywhere. I don't know if any local self-government units have established that investor register in the last 18 months or 19 months. In Article 7, you are changing the definition of a regional spatial plan. It's brought by the government on a proposal from the minister, but where do these people from local communities ask themselves, if we're talking about decentralisation? Since the definition of a spatial plan is changing, how will we reach an area that defines a spatial plan and how will we interest these people in this area to participate actively in the adoption of a spatial plan? You enter a newspaper, and you delete from some plans an assessment of the existing state and analysis of the situation in space, and in some plans it remains. All those involved in the planning of any kind, who make any plans, know that the analysis of the situation is a fundamental element for any further planning. If there is no assessment of the existing situation, it seems to accelerate things, but then all the solutions are no longer in the air and they have no foothold in that certain plans will be realized. The spatial plan of the local self-government unit is no longer based, nor an assessment of the existing state. The spatial plan of the area of special purpose has so far had to be recorded in the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. A provision is now being introduced in amendments to the Law, which instead of words – and must be covered by the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, says -- or covered by the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. This may give you seemingly some kind of freedom, because we'll conclude afterwards that something should be an area of special purpose, but I'd like to return you to the definition of the area of special purpose. This must be a specific area, with cultural and historical features, touristic or other. How is it possible that the Space Plan does not record an area so significant and important for Serbia and that we subsequently define it as so important? Then it puts the whole Space Plan under duress. Then where's the seriousness in planning? Some members have been changed, related to these four spatial plans that exist: the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, the regional spatial plan, the spatial plan of units of local self-government and the spatial plan of the area of special purpose. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia has the basis for drawing up the plan, but the evaluation of the existing situation is deleted. The regional spatial plan has the basis for the plan, but it has no evaluation of the existing state. The spatial plan of units of local self-government has no assessment of the situation, no baseline, and the spatial plan of the area of special purpose has both. That looks pretty confusing to me. All plans, apart from the spatial plan of units of local self-government, have an environmental impact assessment. It was abolished in the spatial plan of local self-government units. Why? It's hard to say. The change is contained in the general urban plan, an extremely important plan document, and this adds the view that the plan also contains other elements relevant for further development in the future. I must admit, a very precise formulation will make it easier to make plans drastically. The mutual coherence of plans and procedures for granting consent is defined and these deadlines are shifted. I suppose it's concluded that the 30-day deadline is short, so it's changed and that deadline is 45 days. A new provision is added, the so-called silence of the administration. If the Minister for Plans for which he is responsible, or a unit or body of local self-government does not give consent, the consent shall be deemed to be given. Is anyone responsible for this unless it's agreed within that time limit? It's not agreeing to anything, it's the most important planning document. How is it possible that there is silence of the administration and that no one is responsible for the silence of the administration? Is that logical? Article 21 allowed access to plans, but there were possibilities that there were some plans which were of strategic interest to defend the country. That article is now being deleted. It's very interesting that there are no more of these objects that are relevant to the defence of the country. In Article 23, which was once a Article 43, the register, the central register of spatial plans, is defined. The registry has been run by the Republic Geodetic Institute so far, and it has had a 12-month period since the law enters into force to establish the register. Now the central register is being transferred to the Ministry. This isn't a good solution. Do you know why? First, if it is transferred to the Ministry, it does not say anything about the process of taking over the central register, in which way the register passes from the Republic Geodetic Institute to the Ministry, provided that the register exists. As it says in the law, it's obvious that this register doesn't exist. If it doesn't exist, and the deadline is six or seven months ago, how could it be that no one from the Geodetic Institute was responsible for not establishing the register? I don't know the answer to that question, of course, but from what it says here. Article 25 defines what it contains and how the general regulation plan is drawn up. The basic element of each plan is its borders, and now this formulation is changing, so the general plan no longer has a limit, but has a framework limit. The most important thing in each plan document, in each plot, is the boundaries of the plot, or the boundaries of the plan. The indicative limit of the plan, I'm sorry, doesn't mean anything. Article 27 defines the concept of a plan document; it now also contains an assessment of the existing situation and an assessment of the situation. It was erased in those members, and in this article it was left, as if someone was doing it in a hurry and left the members out of sync. Article 28 – at the request of the investor, a local permit may also provide for phase construction. With this law, the phase of construction has not been defined in any way. What does phase construction mean? There's got to be a definition. In construction, it's a very complicated thing at all. If there's no definition, then it's very susceptible to abuse. Article 54, as time passes, defines an idea project. The idea project now becomes much more important because an idea project can give you a building permit. When you look closely at Article 54, there is no element in it that defines the static stability of this facility, nor is there a fence that, if a building permit is obtained on the basis of this project, anything will be conditioned. No, it's only said in the next article that an idea project can give you a building permit. If we want to protect the citizens, the customers of the apartments (if we talk about apartments), anyone, then the basic element of the static budget. He's not here. Then how will a permit be issued without a static budget? It is foreseen in a member that such cases are obtained, i.e. there is an obligation to make a building permit. Yes, but that building permit, so defined, has to be done before the work begins; in doing so, it is not subject to technical control. There's no sign of any need for technical control. No one will have any insight into what's in that project. Then it could happen, like it did on the Wizard, that the whole building would collapse. It's already happened in Serbia, it's all you want. It's a possibility, Article 58, that the works begin before... on its own account, the investor can start work before the building permit becomes legal. I guess it's just a few days until it becomes legal. I don't see this speeding up a terrible procedure, and it can cause serious problems. What if something's wrong? What if this construction contractor, the investor, starts some kind of work and can do serious damage? Article 58 is a kind of curiosity, because it says the party can only complain if it will win the process; otherwise, it has serious consequences. He's an interesting member of 60, which defines the validity of the permit. The permit shall cease to apply if the works do not start within two years of the eligibility of the building permit; it shall be valid for a total of five years. After five years, it can be extended for two more years if 80% of the facility is completed, or if the facility is encased and the carpentry is done. And what if the facility isn't a high-rise building and there's no carpentry? The law says 80% if he's got carpentry. There's no carpentry facility, what about that facility? Secondly, after that deadline, the importance of a building permit ceases, but another investor can obtain a building permit at the same location. So the investor who owns it has to sell it, right? He has to give in to someone else because he's turned out to be incompetent. I would remind you, when you travel through Serbia, the largest number of unfinished objects has been created from the budget. What happens to an object made out of a budget that hasn't been completed in five years (schools, schools, hospitals)? There's as much as you want, which was built out of the budget. What happens to all these facilities if they own the Republic of Serbia? Second, who's going to make someone sell that facility? At what price? If anyone knows it's being sold, it has a different value. A member also has a curiosity: if someone, for example, bought an apartment of market value, then he can get a license. Well, you have a building that doesn't have a license, and the man who bought the apartment got a building permit to finish his apartment in his name. That's what the law says. It doesn't explain things, it makes a million and one combination. If no use of authorisation is issued within 90 days, the facility will be deemed to be in use. The minister said it was a big deal. What's wrong with that? It's not right that the use of a permit instead of a commission is made by a competent authority. It doesn't make anyone past the state. Of course, contractors can be companies that are qualified for it, but the state forms commissions. How is it possible that this commission doesn't do its job? People are starting to use the facility, and what if it turns out that the object isn't well done? What if it turns out there are problems? What do we do with that? Then we say - if we were joking, it doesn't matter, we formed the commission, the commission didn't do its job, you came in, but now you move out nice. Does that look serious? I don't think so. Since time's running out, I'd only end up with one more thing. Many provisions and legalization members are being changed. The procedures and lists of documents necessary for the reporting of objects to obtain a subsequent building permit are also changed. There is no change in a member who says that the deadline for legalisation is changed. The deadline expired and was six months after the date of entry into force; it was, if I am not mistaken, February 11, 2009. If the deadline is up, how can legalization rules be changed? No one has the right to file any more, either that deadline is now extending or space is being opened to extend. If people have submitted documents, they can't now, on these demands, draw documents and change them. The second thing, the law on legalisation, fully amnesty of illegal construction if these are funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. For example, the state can work even in protected natural goods and has the right to legalize. Well, it can't, the law's the same for everyone, even for everyone who's on the budget. I would remind you that if you look at the vault, there are 11,500 users. If they're all entitled to illegal construction, then we shouldn't be surprised what this kind of illegal construction is. I'd like to get back to the beginning. We don't think the concept is good, that the concept creates problems. We think that's why for the past two years, we've fallen 171st place at the speed of obtaining a license to 176th place. For us, the happy environment is that the table only has 183 seats, so we can't fall much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50816	The word has a Minister Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50817	I will briefly get involved in this debate, about one thing you have said and which is correct, and it is related to the identification by one of the world's bodies that are doing the general competitiveness of countries; it concerns the country's rankings at the speed of the procedures for issuing a building permit. The fall from 171 to 178th is the fall that happened not because a new law was passed, because the new law was not even taken into consideration, but because there was a collection of compensation for the construction land in the city of Belgrade in the meantime. I'm just going to brief you on what it looks like to rank countries, and I'm sure we'll all agree that Serbia is not among Burka's Faso, Nigeria and some other African countries where there are almost no states in the whole territory, let alone institutions that issue building permits. The World Economic Forum observes three categories: the first is the price of obtaining a building permit, the second is the procedure and the third is the duration of these procedures. Serbia is on the list of the last countries in the world when it comes to the price of obtaining a building permit, because the cost of paying for the construction land only in Serbia and in some Western Balkan countries accounts as a price for obtaining a building permit, because we have established the practice that you cannot obtain a building permit until you regulate legal relations with the Urban Building Land Directorate and don't actually pay the price of the arrangement. In other countries, you have a price for obtaining a building permit which is essentially the price of administrative procedures, and not the price you pay for communals and the introduction of electricity, sewers, telephones, gas and everything else. For this reason, Serbia is almost at the last place when it comes to the price. This essentially brings Serbia to the last place when it comes to the analysis of the World Economic Forum. As for the number of procedures, we have reduced the number of procedures and made significant progress in that segment. As for duration, when you look at administrative procedures concerning state authorities, they are shortened. When you look at procedures concerning the consent of public enterprises, they are something extended. Essentially, if we only recognized the price as the price of administrative costs, Serbia would be somewhere between 50th and 100th place by this, and it belongs there. That's not good. I'd like it to be among the first twenty countries and we'll try to make it so. You have to understand that we have everything that we have as a problem – a categorization of the situation in which it is, our administration in the situation in which it is, public utility companies without all adequate information to rapidly produce and give their opinion and consent, i.e. the conditions. We have all of this, and it's one legacy that comes from me or from us for the last two or three years, but it comes back decades. That's the main reason we're treated like this here. I guarantee you, after changing and supplementing this law, but essentially even after clarifying with the World Economic Forum, or with houses that are doing an analysis for them, what is really the price for obtaining a building permit, Serbia will fall drastically. Then I will expect you, dear colleague, to support and commend, among other things, the ministry's efforts, but primarily the efforts of the city of Belgrade, because the analysis was done only in the city of Belgrade. So, as you know, the key question, as far as this analysis is concerned, is how long does it take to build one warehouse on the perimeter of the town of 2,000 squares? It's done in all 180 countries of the world. How long does it take? So that's where it comes from. Just for the reasons I've listed, we're ranking very badly, but I'm sure we'll make it right in the future. I believe all this is said for good reason, but it's full of misunderstandings of everything we've been doing. So each of these procedures that you are criticizing today is a procedure that had to be changed to speed up the process. When we promoted the stage construction, we said, "Give the builders to the site as soon as possible." The only thing that builders can do to get to construction sites is to give them the key things that represent the first big work, which is, of course, killing spikes and that's the work that involves all that, therefore, after all the groundwork that involves rounding the plot. In order for this to happen, of course, cannot be done without the technical control of the project signed and done by authorised and licensed engineers. The whole concept of the law (which, as far as I understand it, you disagree) is that we removed the administration and gave priority to the profession in matters of expertise. That law that you supported, by the way, is the law that put it all in, so you are now criticizing that concept together: both planning, and building, and legalising and land. We just moved on with the logic of that 2003 law, that is, in 2006, for which you voted. This law is much more important given to the influence of the administration, to control things that it really doesn't have the capacity for. There is no administration, no state, no city, no capacity to control the main projects and to give consent to something that the profession has designed, which means a bunch of different projects from different professions. For this reason, we have now brought much more focus on the responsibility of authorised, or licensed designers, to their seal that implies the licence and which, in fact, for the state, or for the one who issues the licence represents the Holy Scriptures. I see you're essentially criticizing this concept. This concept is good, because it's a European practice and it's something that we finally have to introduce, to reduce bureaucracy and the power of bureaucracy to decide on things that it doesn't really know about. You in our bureaucracy don't have enough licensed people to control every possible project super-controlling, compared to hitting the seal by licensed designers and engineers who have finished their work. I'll just end up saying one newspaper that you and the National Assembly need to know. No serious state facility is being built today without a building permit, which has been a practice decades ago. We today have tens of thousands of objects in the legalization process of state facilities. Nothing in Serbia was built legally. Then private faces saw it, so they built it illegally. Roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, even state buildings here in Belgrade do not have the necessary permits, i.e. they are not built legally. Today, when we talk about the mandate of this government, we do not allow the facility to open officially and solemnly until it has used permission. Every time, every bridge that's been built today, it's done with adequate papers, and it's not easy. It's not easy not to succumb to the political pressure to get into the construction site as soon as possible, to open something up, but by our insistence, this ministry, we are creating a new practice, which someone else will have to continue. That's good. So this is the beginning of introducing order into it. So, in protected natural resources, even the state can't build without permission, it's not true that it can, as no one can build where it's not possible according to plan and where it's not possible to get a building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50818	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Obradovic, we can't have replicas at this stage of the session right now, but you have two minutes as an authorised representative and you can use those two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50819	Why shouldn't I, Madam President, be entitled to a replica? It's not restricted in the Rules of Procedure anywhere. It's very difficult in two minutes to answer everything Mr. Dulic said. I'd remind you, that worldly... That's where I used the analysis because you used it two years ago, because it was a reason to change the law back then, and then you didn't have that kind of objections. Many factors are analysed, Serbia is not in all 176th place, some of which include 15th. Let's just say, after getting the loan, it's much better ranked for investor protection. Not four, but a total of six parameters are controlled. You didn't convince me that a terrible acceleration would be because it would be funded without a static budget. If someone has an analysis and they already have a construction project, then they'll do the foundation and everything. If he doesn't, it's a serious problem. The law states that legalization of objects is possible and there is a procedure for what to surrender if it is built with funds from the budget. If the legalisation deadline has passed, then it has passed for state facilities, not only for private ones. Then that facility can't be legalized. I don't know why we're changing a member of the law regarding the documentation necessary for legalisation if the deadline has passed irrevocably and we won't go back. If we go back to 2003, 2002, and all other things, I'm afraid we won't get far. As we will continue this debate with discussion in particular, of course we will congratulate you for all the good you do, but we cannot congratulate you on this law. I'd just advise you to talk to someone from the profession, because I can't take everything that the profession thinks about this law in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50820	Mr. Obradovic, I don't know if you understand, I wanted to say that there were no procedural, no material reasons for replication, or form, nor the essence of Mr. Minister's statement were no reason to replicate. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50821	Honored Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the SPS-JS Group will in principle support the law, not to say for one single reason, I will state several other reasons, but I point out one big reason that is important to us – because the law is in the interest of socially endangered citizens. The proposed law provides conditions for the simplification of administrative procedures and transparency in the exercise of rights in this area and strengthens the responsibility of all participants in the process of regulating the premises, i.e. building facilities. Starting with the results of the previous analysis of the current law, as well as sublegal acts in the area of planning and editing of space, sublegal acts regarding building land and building of buildings, I estimate that by adopting this law, a basis would be created for achieving the following objectives, so I will specify several objectives that are relevant. By simplifying the administrative procedures to be implemented, which is important for citizens, in the process of exercising the right to build, from the phase of making a decision on making a plan document to issuing the applicable authorisation, and by eliminating the evidence supplied to other bodies and organisations that were needed at the same time will shorten the procedures and the time needed to achieve this right. What is important is that the rights and obligations of all participants in the proceedings preceding the entry of property rights on the newly built facility are specified, so that the competent authorities are not arbitration between the participants when this matter is concerned. Among other things, a circle of persons who can exercise the right to convert rights to use, which is good, in the right of property without compensation, thus allowing for the construction of land for the purpose, the purpose of building the building, in accordance with the plan document, which contributes to the rational use of existing building land. What we also point out as important and why, among other things, we support these amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction is to reduce the scope and type of technical documentation, which reduces the time needed to exercise the right to build. What has caused various dilemmas in the past, it is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, these amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction have been resolved when it comes to Article 104(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law. What I must especially point out is that the law indirectly achieves other objectives, which directly contributes to the economic development and prosperity of the Republic of Serbia. When drawing up this law, alternative solutions have also been taken into account as regards property rights on building land, as well as property in the legalisation process of illegally built buildings, reconstructions and additions of existing facilities and others. Systemic solutions provided for in the draft law create, among other things, the conditions for investing domestic and foreign capital in building facilities in the function of the economic development of our republic. What is important is that there is also full legal protection for all investors, i.e. All investments. Jobs related to planning and construction can also be carried out by domestic and foreign legal persons, as well as by citizens, which promotes sound competition, which is most important from this economic aspect, and this will also lead to the creation of new economic operators. The application of this law will not cause, which is important for the citizens who are watching the transfer, additional costs for the citizens or for the economy, so it is also one of the reasons why the SPS-JS Group supports these changes and additions. In the discussions that the Ministry had, in which we MPs took part, in collaboration with bodies and organisations, as well as certain municipalities and representatives of the AP Vojvodina, with the participation of all stakeholders, we had the opportunity to make our views known, which, as far as I can tell, had a major impact on the final solutions to this law. I must point out that as a parliamentary group, we have put in a few amendments which specify some things, so hopefully, if there are opportunities and space, that something does not disturb the amendments and the additions of the law, that the Minister and representatives of the ministry will consider them, so that perhaps these amendments explain some things. Of course, what follows one law is also sublegal acts. From what I understand on the board, the Ministry's representatives said they were already prepared, just waiting for this law to be passed, in order to speed up the application of this law. At the very stage of applying this law to units of local self-government, organisations, businesses, citizens will be given the necessary expertise, which is very important in order to achieve these objectives, which are why this law is being passed. The Law on Planning and Construction also provides new solutions from this area, some predecessors have already spoken of it, and I will explain a few parts which are why as a parliamentary group we support the law. The law provides new solutions in the area of urbanism and spatial planning, in the area of building land, in the area of legalisation of buildings and in the area of building buildings. When it comes to new solutions in the area of urbanism and spatial planning, we can say that there is a simplified procedure in the event of a change in the plan's document, creating an opportunity for faster implementation of projects relevant for the development of all local self-government. The plan of detailed regulation for the construction of municipal infrastructure facilities can be extremely carried out even when the local self-government unit's spatial plan does not provide for it, its construction is not defined. This enables an accelerated process of building municipal infrastructure in all municipalities, which is very important for the development of each municipality. The location permit is only issued for the construction of new facilities, which is very positive. To build up existing facilities, reconstruction works no longer need to obtain a location and construction permit, which is likely to bring many joy. The local authorisation shall be issued for a cadastrian plot that meets the conditions for a building plot, which shall be determined by the authority responsible for the monitoring of the location permit and may also be issued for several cadastrian parcels consisting of a building complex, in accordance with the plan document. As for another new solution in the area of urbanism and spatial planning, I can say that a simplified and precise procedure for the process of drawing up parceling and preparation projects, as well as for establishing land for the regular use of buildings has been simplified. When it comes to new solutions in the area of construction land, the minister said in his opening statement that no compensation would be paid for the re-use of land if it was before 15. Seven. In 1992, under the Law on Agricultural Land, when that law came into force... no compensation will be paid for the re-use of that land. One of the new solutions in this area, when it comes to building land, is that greater and more precise powers have been given to local self-government units to dispose of construction land. Of course, it will also be brought in following acts that regulate and regulate these questions. All owners with the same scope of powers and rights in terms of availability, in this sense both the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, will be able to alienate or lease certain building land. In the case of conversion of rights without compensation, no copy of the public book, immovableity records shall be submitted, which shall significantly contribute to the acceleration and cost-effectiveness of the procedure. We can freely say after this part that many of these changes and additions simplify and speed up the regulation of these issues. Persons enrolled as holders of the right to use on newly built building land in state property cease the right to use construction land and move into property rights without compensation. I must point out that this provision does not apply to persons who, by law, have to pay compensation, as well as to persons who are regulated. 105th and 106th of the law. When it comes to a few more new solutions in the area of construction land, I must say that in the process of conversion, with the compensation of the market price of building land, it is determined in accordance with the sublegal acts adopted by the Government or on the basis of the general act of the unit of local self-government, according to urban areas, which significantly speeds up this process. I would ask the representatives of the Ministry to look at the amendment that we have proposed to define and clarify what is in the government's jurisdiction, what is in whose jurisdiction, so that there is no overlap and uncertainty. What is important is that the construction land not built in public property can be entered into as a founding stake in companies, and the owner of the building land in public property can make with natural and legal persons contracts for joint construction of buildings, which is the principle that has long been discussed, a public-private partnership; it will be in accordance with the sublaw and I hope that the government will not wait these 60 days until the law enters into force. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to changes and additions and new solutions in the area of building facilities, I can say that it is positive that the investor is not obliged to obtain consent to the main project from the infrastructure connection body, unless it is contained in the location permit, but they are also obliged to join the facility to the infrastructure if it is established that the facility is suitable for use, in accordance with this law. Of course, there are also sanctions for a commercial offence if that is the case. What I can say more when new solutions are in the field of building objects is that the competent authority can only ask once for an addition to the documentation and after obtaining the requested documents he no longer has the right to request additional documentation. I think it reduces, let me put it this way, harassing our citizens who want to exercise their right. Of course, we're going back to detailing some of the provisions on the jurisdiction of the resolution authority by appeal, which is good. When it comes to a building permit issued by a solution within eight days of the date of submission of an orderly application, as an administrative act under which an investor acquires the right to build an object, it is portable, which so far has not been possible. In particular, if an investor is changed during the construction of the facility, i.e. the construction of works, the new investor is obliged to submit an amendment to the building permit within a certain period. As for some more details about the building permit, there is also some skepticism, let's say, it is worth five years from the lawfulness of the solution when it is issued; it can be extended, on request, to another two years, but it must provide evidence of the completion of the facility over 80%. So then it's said what means the degree of completion of the facility, whether it's low-building, high-building. We may only specify here when it comes to high construction, but that means that it allows its right to be connected to the infrastructure network. After the deadline, which is very important because it will increase tax revenue, investors will have to pay property tax, which is regulated by the Property Tax Act; it would be paid, in accordance with that law, for the whole facility. Exceptionally, the facility may also be used without the authorisation granted if, within 90 days of the date of establishment of the technical review committee, the competent authority has not issued the authorisation, nor has the solution refused to issue it. It is clearly defined, no licence is obtained for current maintenance. This will allow our citizens, if they are already planning some ongoing maintenance, to do so immediately. Provisions on the delivery of a building inspector’s solution shall be specified. It should contribute, it's important to all of us, and we all know how much trouble there is, to make that inspection more effective. When it comes to legal certainty, it's increased. In the real estate market, unwitting investors will destabilise and they will, of course, not start an investment without the funds provided for its implementation. Also, the proposed amendments and additions to the law will speed up the completion of unrealised investments. To point out what is important, the level of tax revenues, which are not realised because of unrealised investment, will increase. At the very end, I would like to say a few details about new solutions when it comes to legalization of objects, which, of course, draws the most attention to the changes mentioned and the additions to the law. We have to say, and if we have to repeat it several times, that the proposed amendments and additions to the law remove certain ambiguities in the legalization procedures of the objects. The changes in certain provisions are specified by the household member for family and residential facilities. This is where we now return to the fall of 99% for those social categories, which is why we as a parliamentary group are giving priority support to this law. It is in line with our progressive definitions and, of course, it is one of the five principles around which this government is gathered. There are certain reductions, not to mention, those 60% that come true by those who don't meet the conditions, which will further help citizens legalize their facilities. I would say what is important: the application of a residence for at least a year in a given territory, that there is no immovableity in that municipality, and an increased and precise number of evidence that determines in the procedure that the applicant has a solution to the property and legal basis, which is the conqualification of the contract on the sale of building land, giving on use and so on. I have to say, it's a good thing that there is now the possibility of temporarily joining illegally built objects until the legalization process is over. The proposed solution concerns all facilities built until the entry into force of the Planning Act, which is 11 September 2009. A procedure has been prescribed to exclude them from the infrastructure network after the legal completion of the legalisation process and until the removal of the facility, which is very important. The possibility for the local self-government unit to collect the necessary documentation in the process on behalf of and for the applicant's account. What's positive for our citizens because of the whole situation is that they can pay for it within two to four years. Of course, what I have to say is that immediately after the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction comes into force and the regulation on legalisation, which, as I am informed as a member of the Committee, is already ready, of course, with the support of everyone. I hope that the opposition will have the understanding of such changes and additions, which are in favour of the citizens, and especially in the interest of those who are socially endangered. Once again, the SPS-JS Group will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50822	I really thank Mr. Radenkovic. I give my word to the People's MP, Master Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50823	I would start with the end of this law and the story of Art. 89th and 88th proposals, which actually illustrate problems in this area. I have to be completely honest and say, not as an expert on this area, but as someone who is a very responsible politician, that problems related to lawless construction, which are the main theme of this law, are the problems that last long, the problems created by the state itself with vague and delayed regulations, the untimely conduct of inspection bodies, often by justifying objective circumstances, the desire to meet citizens, and now brings laws which so long created problems, to a large extent with their own guilt, in fact wants to solve again through the back of citizens and to harm them. Just because I admit that the problems have lasted a long time, that they've been created doesn't mean that at some point they don't have to... They must begin to resolve in a clear and precise way, for example, Article 89 of these amendments and additions certainly does not speak, because if it is a member of 89. The proposal stipulates that persons who for some reason could not apply for legalisation of the building land charges are charged in a triple amount... I want to illustrate by this example that the state does not have a proper relationship with anyone who did not make a legal request in time. This fee is not a criminal measure, it should pay the actual cost of municipal planning, as the minister himself said, and the conditions to ensure the work of municipal services. I ask each of the present and the citizens who are watching us do they think that this is what a provision should look like for those who break the Traffic Act, so, for example, a driver who commits a traffic violation should pay toll and fuel at a triple price? Is this analology appropriate and whether the state, when it lacks money or when it needs to settle an area, should resort to such measures, which do not promote it as a fair and orderly state that works in the interests of citizens, but rather, as a state that wants to do something in its interest, but only in its interest, not to the greatest extent in the citizens' interest? I said that, as a non-professional for this area, I would not give any easy or definitive evaluations, but I have the right to present my judgment and ask some, I think, very serious questions when it comes to this law. Was it really necessary for a member of the 71st to establish the existence of a Republic spatial planning agency, if it is carrying out the authority of the Government? Indeed, there is no reasonable reason for the agency to do so instead of the government itself, or its body. When can agencies do some work? Only if they can do them better and more effectively than I am the authority of the state administration and if these jobs require constant political supervision. I'm willing to argue, based on my experience with some of the people in the ministry that you represent here today, that I don't believe that there can be any more professional and capable of exist in the Agency than you do at the Ministry. Nor should there be any different political surveillance over the jobs that the Ministry is doing so that we have to have another agency in the forest that creates itself continuous jobs that never end, so that these and such agencies can justify their existence, not to mention my high wages. Do these people at the agency, who aren't professional like you at the Ministry, have salaries like yours? No, they have multiple higher wages. They don't have the responsibility you have, which is another additional reason for that part of the government's affairs to return to your original jurisdiction and for which you need to answer to the Assembly and the citizens. The additional reason for that, how many people work in such agencies? Unknown number. Thousands. The government doesn't have any information about that either. On what criteria are they accepted as employees? Anyway, party membership. Who controls their work? The government says - no, or through intermediaries, board members. It is not known that one of these agencies is receiving employees in public competition, and we all advocate the competitiveness of the market, economy, and labour. This does not provide us with this authority, and when we talk about the quality of licensed engineers, respect for the profession, respect and legal profession, which is very important in this area, it is not provided in agencies, but rather in the ministry itself. So this isn't just a chance for me to state the principle of SNS that the forest is an agency, which no one knows about, where people receive multiple higher salaries for smaller jobs, for which they don't correspond to anyone, for which we have no proof of expertise... Not on the way commentary, but completely on purpose, is given in this place, where we need to sort out an area that has long been unedited and the state cannot come out of, because this is the jurisdiction of the state, the most direct. My next remark, public objection, is mainly about the conversion of the right to use, which has produced a lot of public noise, with the right. We insist that when this conversion of the right of use to property is carried out at the request of the right holder of use, there must be a remuneration of the market value of land, the right price must be paid, as every citizen must pay the right price of every commodity he buys, but to do just so, the state must, in a market-specific manner, reduce the amount of leases that have already been paid. Isn't it every law's intention to be just? Why is that necessary? By amendments, we have proposed to you that you cannot bring the user into a situation where his right of use will cease if he does not apply for conversion within 30 days of the date of entry into force. Do you really think that every citizen buys a "Official Messenger" and study in detail every regulation and deadline relating specifically to him and his life? I am convinced, and also many citizens, that the adoption of such a law would truly be a widespread legal violence, that those who do not make such a request within 30 days literally take away what they have acquired, e.g. At market prices, and already paid. In that disputed Article 49. You have prescribed the proposal that the competent authority, under official duty, determines the termination of the right to use, where (please pay attention to this attention) you have not prescribed a procedure in which the person who has been damaged or deprived of his land would have the possibility to file a complaint. What do you justify interrupting a court like this? What is this of exceptional importance or exceptional benefit for the state to violate the right to legal protection and remedies for that protection, guaranteed by the Constitution of Article 36? I'm also saying that you didn't prescribe that in this case there should be an exceptional public interest and a fair fee so that you could take away someone's land in this way. I couldn't tell from this text. I really don't see that there is a legal interest in such a force that this assembly could vote on such a proposal in which you will take away someone's acquired property rights. I think the lawyers well know that the confiscation of acquired property rights is, in some ways, the retroactive, feedback fact, for which we have no explanation why we should apply it, and in the city of Belgrade, which in many situations is a rapper for the interrogation where we are located in the time of obtaining a building permit, we have a special problem. In law, you say that property rights are established in favour of the unit of local self-government, but it is not stated what the level of local self-government is, so on the matter of the city of Belgrade, there is now a dilemma whether it is a municipality, cities, a city of Belgrade or a municipality in Belgrade. I'm asking a question, and you're going to solve this unresolved problem, who's going to be a happy winner of free construction land, which can be sold later, I suppose, at a high price? These changes and additions you suggested don't solve them in any way, and if you tell me it'll be solved by some rule, I'm afraid we'll be waiting a long time, as one I'll mention later. Article 60. The bill of amendments and additions to the Law says that this time too, the poorest citizens will suffer the consequences of such, in haste, regulations. They say that every regulation and law is something like piano or clay, so whoever can play the piano out of that law gets the best, or whoever can shape clay can make the best applicable regulation, or law, that we adopt here. I'm afraid in the beginning we have a feller embedded in this law, because you forgot to exempt a member of the 60th from the family housing building that the investor is building to solve his living needs. The question arises, when one such citizen who builds a family residential building is deprived of a building permit, what good do you do for a citizen by doing your national job? It's obvious that you didn't take care of it, but, as I said at the beginning of the presentation, only about the well-being of the state, in which you see your own administration. I wonder, didn't you find this solution legally controversial to regulate property relations in such buildings where construction works have already been carried out to some level? Now, when the license is withdrawn, which regulates this Article 60, how will relations be regulated with the new investor and the one that has completed by some stage the object that is the subject of this member of the law? I fear that due to the slowness of the administration, the constant changes in regulations, their shortcomings, the applicable permit for these and such objects may not be issued even after many years. Simply, it should not be forgotten that there are many state-owned facilities that do not have a license. According to the information, you may have a different one, even the Belgrade arena does not have the necessary permits, and its construction began 20 years ago. How now in this galaxy of regulations, inconsistencies and state strictness, which is not the same for all because the state is not acting as a mother, but somewhere a mother, somewhere a stepmom, will be applied to those who build family residential buildings, remains to be seen. I would also like to point out the specific position of local self-government assemblies, where I do not find it quite appropriate for you to release local self-governments of certain incomes on their behalf, even though it is the law. You deny the local self-government of the original income by asking them for this type of charity and by doing so to a member of the 78th proposal, i.e. the basic member of Law 185. We find it totally unacceptable to limit the time limit until which the owner has to conclude the contract because to the greatest extent it depends not on the person who submits the request but on the speed of resolution of the request, where the citizen is not protected by any time limit that if you do not respond to it within any appropriate time limit, he may be granted a permit in any case. It is already known, by the dynamics of resolving current demands, that it will take at least five more years for these and such demands to be resolved. There's one more issue, which you may have missed at your speed. The new position of the 8th original member 185. The law you have shown good intentions towards citizens because you are offering assistance in the legalisation process, and thus local self-government authorities obtain certain documentation. I have to admit that this is a positive initiative, but I think it would be much better if it were arranged to help certain categories of citizens, not as a general rule, because the municipal authorities would turn into an organ, or a service agency with compensation and become a party to the proceedings themselves. Maybe you missed it at the speed. Many of our laws are written overnight, changed overnight. We've had a case with the last return of the law, but this is not a possible danger, this is the reality of the law, that the municipal body appears as a business agency with compensation for the service and itself as a party to the proceedings. I think on behalf of the Republic this time you've authorized yourself to free someone's fee, but at the expense of local self-government, even citizens indirectly, because that local self-government of income, which is being denied by this route, will not be able to perform some services that you would otherwise do for the citizens. The basic fact is that these local self-governments must somehow provide funds to carry out those jobs that represent real costs. When the state releases itself, it has to sort of make up for it. How's it going? Well, again from citizens who live in the same municipality and again on their burden. So, this illusion that you're releasing citizens from some expense, and the municipality's resources are missing again... It will have to through these same citizens to introduce some new inducement, to raise some tax or compensation, or they will remain denied for some service. So, you take the principle from your left pocket or you take it from your right to take the citizens from your left and it's applied here. The 79th proposal, which speaks of the original article 187, does not give us, gentlemen, clear criteria for how you predict the destruction of objects built on wetlands that are unstable, where you predict either destruction or refusal to issue a permit. I don't think that's right, especially when you combine this member with Article 198, where an object collapse is prescribed if the legalization request is rejected. I don't know if you have the height of the cost of destroying objects, if you have any idea how many objects were built on icefields and unstable terrains. Do you know the example of the Netherlands, which was built as a state on a swamp terrain? Well, has it occurred to anyone that it's much better to resuscitate these facilities or to invest something in the safety of such sites, not to resort to the ultimate and worst degree, which is the destruction of objects built on such sites, and you know how much it costs. Secondly, what has already been mentioned in the debate, I must mention that what you consider protected objects, indeed, in practice, shows that there are protected objects, but that they cannot apply different rules... (President: Time. I will continue in the later debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50824	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the government, since the minister is gone, what the Serbian Radical Party has resented since the law was passed, and then one change, here now and another change, is not specifically about the matter of this law, is the fact that the minister could never really recognize or find the measure to which one legislative project would present to this assembly. This was not a question with the Law on Planning and Construction and other legal projects coming from the ministry, but nothing to be surprised. From your ministry, gentlemen, a message has come that June is 31 days in Serbia, and in the country where June 31 is, anything is possible. Read what you wrote in the law and you'll see. Anything can be said for this law, just can't be said that you gave the advantage of science and that this is a qualitative shift. The changes and additions that are on the agenda today may be in favour of financial and time-effectiveness, as you are experiencing them, but are indeed at the expense of quality above all procedures in the design of the documentation, and then of everything else that this law implies and solves. I'm going to try to tell you in the time that the SRS belongs to what it is that we could generally or in principle dispute as far as this law is concerned. So, I repeat, you could have said anything, but in this law you're talking about the fact that you're giving priority to the profession, you really couldn't say that. This applies in particular to that section of the law which regulates the process of drawing up the planning documentation. Since you passed the law, we've been telling you that it would be wise to separate the planning process through the law from the legalization process, not to burden each other, so that the state could primarily deal with adequate planning. You didn't listen to that at the time. Two years after the adoption of the Law, or as long as the time has passed, when you add and subtract everything you have today in the space sector and construction in Serbia, the summary or result is double-naked. Every time we're at some historic beginning. Every time, it will be this, it will be that. In order not to repeat what some fellow MPs quoted the minister from some of the previous debates have said, I will only say briefly that he said that this was a historic shift in Serbia's big storage process, that you have a plan in relation to the challenges that will come, that you will insist on its implementation, etc. Instead of Serbia getting all this, Serbia has been under pressure from the government's incompetence and competent state bodies, stakeholders we have also heard about lately. The government and the Ministry of Spatial Planning are changing legal norms and, in principle, the planning system and the introduction of order into space are only complicated. Why am I saying this now? Just look at this for part of the planning. Since the adoption of the 2009 Act, which obliges all local self-governments to make planning documentation by 2012, there have been local self-governments who have been responsible and immediately approached the design. At the beginning of 2010, congregations made decisions and began to work. Now look, making a plan document has phases: concept, draft, proposal, adoption. See what kind of forest regulations a spatial plan has been going through for the last year, and what it has had to endure: first of all, in May, the rule of law is based on that law, and under various circumstances and pressures of amending the rules, and then the law is re-changed, and now we are changing the law again, and these amendments provide for the adoption of new regulations and new sublaws. You're saying you're giving priority to the profession, you're asking for someone to take you seriously, responsibly, understand space and the importance of space. We said in the discussion of the spatial plan, lucky that you didn't have, as I would say, a great influence in that, but they were doing relatively free people and people from the profession, so you can recognize some quality, but from that quality that should be the basis for all acts of the lower order, how can they produce quality documents of the lower order when the government is harassing them, the Ministry is harassing them with such changes and additions of legal and sublegal acts? We begin to talk about what you insist on – quality and expertise. When you're talking about quality, I'm asking you why you've abolished your final consent with amendments. It was previous, so it was final consent. Why was final consent important for the quality of the document? Because government gentlemen know well what happens on local bodies, where these documents are adopted, what individual and group interests are embedded in the planning documents. Then it happens to you that in one municipality the collected majority decide to change the PGR (general regulation plan) and make a sports hall in the middle of town. Then the designers come out and say – the project is extra, six hundred seats and 30 parking spaces. You give it a blessing, because you wash and take responsibility off yourself to control what's going on on in the field. It's your mission and it's your job. Just laugh. It won't be fixed in a hundred years after you. We're lucky this government won't last much longer. We're convinced you'd change the laws ten more times without saying how many times you'd change sublaws. Speaking of professions, we're asking you why you're pulling licensed experts from the commission? Why is it no longer an obligation for licensed experts to sit in the planning committees? Do these commissions have no meaning or maybe someone, say, at the City Administration in Subotica, should stay on board? I'm quoting this as an example. There's no one to replace him. He's got to sit down. It sucks, from Saturday, and it doesn't matter. I was pounding. It doesn't matter, Big Plan, etc. For what? That job isn't hard, that job isn't even I know how much intensity it is. If somewhere it's supposed to be a concentrated mind and profession, it's in those planning committees, since you're committed to the work of state planning, strategic planning in this country. You're talking about giving priority to the profession. Take a look at the spatial plans of the special purpose processing. You will no longer have the obligation to bring forward a program of implementation of these plans. The Serbian Radical Party still told you in the process of passing the law – accept the proposal and let the implementation programmes of spatial plans be an integral part of exactly spatial plans. That's when you didn't want to accept it. Now, look at what plans, for areas of special purpose, means, for spatial plans for those areas of national importance, which are the national interest of the Serbian state, to facilitate your job, you have no obligation to define implementation programmes. Also, in the context of a spatial plan you have no specific purpose for the development of the implementation programme. And you're talking about the profession, you're talking about quality. Someone mentioned this earlier, if the minister does not give consent to some plan document, now not within 30 days, but within 45 days, the document is believed to have been accepted. I repeat the question – do you know what everything and what interests are embedded in these planning documents? What's your job? You want to advertise on the Davis Cup? What's the Ministry supposed to do if not with this? What's more important to a country than strategic planning? This is the essence, not the forums on the Kopalnik. This is where development is justified, through these documents. But you don't care. Not to touch partial, individual examples of protected goods, etc., there may be time in the debate in particular to show the public, but also to you, how defined you are for strategic planning and protection and understanding of space in Serbia. Take care now of the absurd: impose an obligation on local self-governments to bring in spatial plans, and part of these spatial plans must be the rules of general pitching in that small community, municipality, local self-government, unit of local self-government, and then by law you change or ask the minister to adopt the general rules of lotion, etc. Since there is a second segment of the law that is very important and should be mentioned, and there is not enough time, the details and all the amendments we have submitted will be discussed in the discussion of details. However, the SRS sends you a message to find a measure when you represent and promote your projects and when you try to present yourself to the conscious importance of space, its arrangement, its protection and its treatment. Now we come to another part that may be more interesting for the public, for the government probably more interesting, and that is the legalisation and attempt by the authorities to through what they say is simplifying procedures and offering that citizens without money, almost free, legalize their facilities also introduce order. Do you know what's interesting? Minister Dulic said several days ago in public that responsibility for the failed legalisation process has so far been borne by irresponsible local self-government with low administrative capacity, and another reason is poverty. Well, I can't in a poor country, in a country where citizens are poor, municipalities can be rich. And those municipalities are poor. What has changed in local self-government in the last two years, since the date of entry into force of this law, so administratively and humanely, in terms of human resources, have matured to carry this job? If you leave the same level of work to local self-government and the procedure has changed in some other sense, we could understand – we do not dispute the intention to speed up the procedure, simplify and cheaper, after all – but you will now give local self-government a bunch of new obligations and responsibilities. We now hear there will be public works, so many will engage, go after Serbia to register sheds, houses, garages, list and work on behalf of the municipality. First question - who will finance it? These same local self-governments complaining of transfer funds, which have no money to finance current commitments, will now finance all those advances for the legalisation process, and will then ask citizens to pay them back for four years. Then the same citizens will come to ask them – well, we have no way, no school, no this, because municipalities spend money on something else, they will get nothing through the collection process, because it will be reduced to a minimum or it will not be. At the same time, you did not convince these local self-governments, you did not raise awareness at that level that they understood how much it was and how important the legalization process was for them. What did they do? You have examples from the municipality to the municipality, so in one municipality for a square meter of 1,000 dinars, in the second municipality of 6,000 dinars, and in the third 10,000 dinars. What was your mission and your job? Just now, the minister was saying why we're low on that ranking list. It's a big fee. There's a huge fee because you didn't control it, you didn't crack the rules that would allow it to be done by local self-government, but every local sheik and kabadiah did it the way they wanted to. It was safe and responsible, so they did some work and managed to do it, but everyone else took it as a means to make money. We're here for another year or two to figure out what we can do, after who comes, what do we care? What happens to space, we don't care. What have you done to raise the awareness of these people that it is important to legalize it because of the property tax, to provide for themselves constant and permanent incomes in perspective, that they can seriously deal with their development, with their future? You show up in the congregation and say, "Here we are, giving priority to the profession," and no one alive can recognize the advantage of the profession and the advantage of quality. After all, the legalization of objects is not the only job local self-government needs to do. What will your local self-government do next? They'll write down, I said a moment ago, sheds and garages. Current business, where are they? Who's going to finance the running jobs and who's going to do the running jobs? The Serbian Radical Party really doesn't mind that it is a commitment to legalize under the most favourable conditions, but I ask you, government gentlemen, since the minister referred us to local self-government, what will those who paid for legalisation do? Madam of the Ministry, this is my personal document. I didn't need your 2009 law or these changes to show awareness of the public interest and to settle my obligations. Gentlemen, at the time, I was the president of the community council. Sir, you laughing at me, no construction inspector was allowed to enter my yard, as a local official, so as responsible and safestan, I joined in 2005 and paid 280,000 dinars in compensation, and I took out a loan to regulate. I'm asking you, since Dulic's gone, who's going to pay me back? To what address should I and all the other security citizens address, so that we may be even, like everyone else, before the Constitution and before the law? Send that message today, not to engage in political pulsism. It's nice and supportive, so let's not let people pay anything for legalization, but show responsibility for these people, too. Who's gonna think about these people and take care of them? Who do you want to hear from? We have proposed one amendment in that sense. We have proposed an amendment, and we have asked that all those safe citizens who have respected the law, those who have since 2003, from the Sumar's Law on Planning, not back, to this day, or to the day of entry into force of this law, be free of 50% of the property tax in the next five years. Fortunately for you, not a lot of safe people were in that sense, so it won't cost you much. But if you are willing to give up funds in the legalization process that you will give up, here, show good will and engage in the sense that you accept this amendment, because the SRS believes that if you have an obligation to those who are not your property, you have a duty to those who have done so. In the end, in the name of the SRS I can only give you one message – which the coat of arms is born, time does not correct, and God damn it, no orthopaedic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50826	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Bojana Stanojevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50827	Dear Presidents, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, after a year and a half since the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, we have the same law on the agenda, with its amendments and additions. The reason for this is certainly a chaotic legacy, i.e. the fact that we are suffering the many consequences of past times today, when Serbia's urban and spatial development was not thoughtfully thought about, and when the profession often stood aside. So today we are in a position to constantly find ways to overcome a number of problems and hence, and it is logical that in a relatively short period of time we are considering new variants of the law and changing something for a better function. Urban and spatial development of an area affects the development of numerous branches of the economy. I'll simply explain it to you on the case of Vrnjaka Banja, the place from which I come. This former queen of continental tourism has met with the wrong urban and spatial development in the last decade. Excessive housing has taken place, which has directly threatened tourism development. These apartments were mostly bought by people who don't live in Vranjska Banja. That's where they come in and their cousins come in, friends. There are unregistered guests who do not pay residence fees, hotel facilities remain untapped and, of course, has a negative impact on the municipality's budget and on the development of related business branches. On the other hand, inappropriately large objects are poorly architecturally shaped, built in the center and on its edge, even in the protection zones of thermal springs, and in the ugliest way, they have endangered the ambital continent by which Vrnjaka Banja was famous. This is also the case with many other cities and areas in Serbia. At times, architectural styles were set aside in Serbia, types of rural houses were identified towards the climate in which they were built, leaving famous European builders in cities. Unfortunately, today, architectural design is little account being taken of, and construction sites are allowed to be destroyed, worn out, and often illegally upgraded and reconstructed. We are now inevitably coming to the burning problem of lawless construction. It is almost unimaginable that a European country in the 21st century has so many illegally built buildings. Since I've spent my working life building and implementing urban and spatial plans, it's hard for me to say that we now have to overlook many urban principles in the process of legalization, but it's simply inevitable if we want to finally introduce order and pull the red line. In order to justify such radical moves, it is also essential to stop lawless construction now. The greatest responsibility lies on local self-government and above all on the construction inspection. It was their bad work that brought the whole country into this situation. Bad application of plans, disrespect for urban parameters, mixing in parts where there are no plans and very poor work or the lack of urban and construction inspection led to the point of heat. I'm going to take this opportunity to mention again the problem of using funds from the fee for the construction land. This is the fund from which the construction and reconstruction of the infrastructure network is financed, and we witnessed in the spring that the floods almost destroyed many settlements and agricultural areas precisely because of the absence or poor functioning of atmospheric sewers. In addition, numerous settlements with bad street lighting, the road network must be on a much higher level, not to mention the passage of pipelines, heat lines and the like. All of this is financed from the fee paid for the construction land. Unfortunately, the practice suggests that these funds are often spent unintendedly. I think we should carry out extensive controls on local communities and insist on strict compliance with the law, i.e. strictly targeted use of these funds. In this whole rough analysis and a list of major problems facing urbanism and spatial planning today in Serbia may indeed sound minor, but I have to take advantage of the opportunity and mention abuse of the setting up of temporary facilities, i.e. kiosks and gigs. I'm saying, I have to mention that, because it's a problem that's so common with us, which leaves a very ugly picture, which may be the simplest thing to solve. There are kiosks and gigs in many of the world’s metropolises and tourist resorts, but in certain locations, a strictly defined appearance and content. As far as we're concerned, I'll show you again on the Vranjska Banja case. Its greatest wealth is central Banjska Park and vernacular promenade. In the late 19th century, the park was set up by famous Vienna architects and Czech horticulture engineers. The numerous hiking trails combine all thermal mineral springs, a large number of plant species are recorded and the park is now protected by the Republic Nature Protection Institute. Unfortunately, on Vranjska promenade, as well as in the central park, with the approval of local self-government, numerous gigs and kiosks of completely inappropriate appearance and content have been set up, leaving a very ugly picture for guests and locals. We must not grumble before these problems, however small they seem in relation to the entire system that plagues this area, because that's where the first picture of a place is created, about a neighborhood, about a city, and even in the whole country. In addition to the law, there are rules to which this phenomenon can be arranged. This is just a rough analysis, part of a problem that is plagued by urbanism and spatial planning in Serbia. It is a completely understandable situation in which the ministry is located and it is logical that the finding of solutions to all problems takes place through a long-term process. It is certain that these amendments and additions will not remove all irregularities and negative phenomena, but it is also certain that they must insist on strict compliance with the law, i.e. on adequate application of the rules. It is also necessary for the competent ministry, as well as parliament, through their Committee on Urbanism, to exercise control of whether the law is properly applied. First of all, I mean local self-government, the work of their professional services, the respect of deadlines for the adoption of plans and other acts. The Democratic Party will insist on these principles and will support any initiative, action, legal solutions that will contribute to the introduction of order into Serbia's urban and spatial development. Serbia will, among other things, tell Europe that it is ready to become officially its member. Active co-operation is needed in order to keep us on this path, and as much agreement as possible between the Ministry of Environment and spatial planning, engineering chambers, the competent office and local self-government. Finally, in the voting day, the MEP group ZES will be declared to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50828	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50829	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here we are, for who knows which time we listen to the same story, the promises that construction as the engine of the development of a country will finally start when some law is passed, when some new items are added to the existing law. Lately, we have these same promises every year, some law that's constantly being adopted, that's getting in line, but construction can't get started. Construction and agriculture, the impacting branches of the development of the Serbian economy, cannot begin to function because they are squeezed and tightened with the chains that are being created, rather than freeing themselves from construction, to give certain privileges, to start construction, because we have big problems. We're listening here now, I've listened to the minister for the hundredth time, his story of big construction, companies, movements, activities, accelerated licensing processes. I want to commend the minister, he did everything and showed that a permit for "Nuba Invest" can be obtained during the day, but it is a crime. That's why he accused me, so we're in court. Now I want the minister to prove he's right. The minister can't do that kind of thing. Not even a clerk, let alone a minister. To give someone... Imagine you give a taxi driver's license, and he doesn't have a driver's license. "Nuba Invest" had no license, could not get that job; it was not a tender, there was nothing; it was a crime and it will prove and prove in the ongoing court dispute. I ask you not to confuse Serbia with various laws, while giants in construction fail, they do not exist. Gentlemen of the ministry, explain to me the methodology for which five thousand apartments in Belgrade received the "Monter", the Democratic Party's firm. How can "Monter" defeat all the giants in construction, which are very important in Belgrade? How is that possible? Whose "Monter" is, we know that; who's the boss of "Monter" – and we know that. So, how can without a tender be awarded to someone 5,000 residents in Belgrade? Do you normally observe, is that in accordance with your law, and what are you going to change? The permit expires after five years of construction. How many objects do you care because there's no means to finish. If the regime doesn't build them, if his companies don't build them, there's no credit and no credit lines and all the facilities will shut down. What about that Bor, that big construction site over there that started 15 years ago, so what about Kurzumli, what about many of the spas that you've started? Are you going to tear it down? Permissions have expired everywhere. Do you believe, gentlemen of the Ministry, what you are now making in the King, these "budgers", as they are called, these fourth houses... They practice kids to build houses. Did you see how ugly that looks in nature? Well, those peasants are gonna beg someone to put it away. You saw the other day there making houses. You've seen two bathroom departments, some kitchen in the neighborhood, no terrace, nothing. It's so ugly. That's how they spend that money mercilessly. I'd like you to visit, look around, see what that looks like. It's the mockery of every household where it's made. People had to accept it in order to survive somewhere. You don't have to invest money that way. Please, your projects, which are now being announced, are not moving. Gentlemen, this is your fourth construction season. You've had three of them. Here, in a month's time, a full construction season begins. What sites do you have in Serbia? Do you believe, and you can check, I asked permission to build a trafo station, I need it, you know how long it takes to get a license for a trafo station? A year, gentlemen. Stubular trafo station, a year. Do you know how long it takes to get a tanker to register for gas? Same year. People, you can't believe it. It's all about corruption. It's about crime. Do you believe, gentlemen, that the director of urbanism has an agency on his wife? They don't go out in the field, you go to him to pay the tax. Then he sends you to his wife's agency. You go to the agency and pay the fee again 28,000, 26,000, and the agency comes out and brings them the data, and then they can't draw it. That tank is marked with one dot. Now, come out like that for water, for a trafo station, for this, for that, for the fire road, for everyone, and all the taxes and all the agencies, the agency to the agency. What's this about? Do you believe, you've introduced gas now, in order for someone in the household to use gas he must have permission to be covered by a house, like a lawyer's house, and he has to pay that service annually so he can use gas regularly, etc.? You made a miracle out of the administration. You don't even know how complicated your job is. That's why all the construction stopped. You know, when you start in a row, it's a disaster. They just say -- go to the agency, go to the geometer, go to this agency, go to that agency, pay your taxes here, did you bring this, did you bring that, etc. Here you are now announcing some amendments to the law. You've changed a word, and now we'll see. But it's very important, if the facility is built, 80 percent covered, it's subject to property tax. Now it's itchy. That's the most important thing to you. Property tax. How can an object that doesn't produce, doesn't work, isn't in function, isn't received, doesn't have a license, isn't finished paying the property tax? Is that the owner making any money or...? There's no man of means, he can't finish it. What's he gonna do now? To pay taxes on property and sell slowly, to scrap parts of the facility and to pay your property tax. You're here now telling us about Vranjska Banja, where it's no good. Who's there in power? You're telling us about Belgrade. Who's been in power for years? Who's in power in Belgrade? Do you know? Well, there's the main building: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis. Well, you're in power, gentlemen. Kragujevac, you don't have building permits in Kragujevac. Have you worked the highway, entering Kragujevac without a building permit? You were working overpass without a building permit. That's true and you can check it out. I've told you a hundred times. Don't do that kind of thing. No wonder your hospital crashed. You say the nurses are heroes. Is the hospital allowed to collapse in an earthquake of 5.3 degrees Mercali's scale? He can't. What kind of static is that? What kind of designer is that? Who's the one who gave the permit? How can the hospital fire? How do billions of people need to get the hospital back? How can a hospital, a new one, burn you, for which you gave permission, papers, all neat? You've got two hospitals on fire. Is it some kind of crime, or the haughtiness of a performer, or the misjudgement of a designer? The installations seem to be on fire. How can installations be lit in a new installation? Is that normal? Did your inspectors go to the scene and take certain actions? Do you have a report on the hospital that burned down in Belgrade, why it burned down a new hospital? She borrowed this country and this people have to pay that loan. How can a hospital be set on fire in Sremska Mitrovica? How can you get shot by overpasses made on the part of the highway Novi Sad - Subotica? How can I? "Borovica" radios. How'd they shoot? You had to change them about the cost of the state. And now you're working without a program, without a plan, without a tender. And what you're doing is gonna break. I was in Smedereva last night, getting into town with craters. You guys can't figure out how bad it's been lately. This little thing that's been done, it's so arrogant, so bad. It is important today that you have a ski competition, that you have settled in the government and that you are skiing today and that Dinkic, as a favourite, will win. Right? It's extremely important and significant on the Kopalnik. If Cole had hugged you there, rolled you, reconciled you and given you all the pleasures of this world to relax a little. Those tortured ministers, headed by the prime minister, came to rest a little. Right? That's not how it works. You can't act like one. You bring us some laws every year, one of those same laws, every year we listen to a story here. How many facilities have you legalized in Serbia? How much, according to your shortened procedure? You've been campaigning for months, years. Here, for three years you've been in power, people, three construction seasons, full. What did you do? Nothing. I was a minister and I made 5,860 apartments and houses. How many of you are there? Give me the number. Why did all the construction companies go under your ice? Because you're building a "Monter", you're destroying the Energy Project, you're destroying the "Rad", you're destroying the "Comgrap", "PIM" is being sold into debauchery, everything goes, "Ratko Mitrovic", "Planum", so I don't list all the giants in construction that were proud not of Serbia but of Europe and worked on European criteria and European standards. So what you're doing, you change some sentences and some dots, you come out in front of us, now it's all going to start, here, just this law still to be adopted, it's been a big distraction... Last year you had the same law, you also removed all interference, all problems, etc., and before, and all over again. So get serious. You run one serious branch. Don't do this -- "Let's Clean Serbia", spend millions, don't spend thousands of euros on these websites, don't throw away, don't use... You from the ministry are using the shelters of the city of Belgrade for your private companies. You can't do that. Tomorrow someone will answer for it. I guarantee someone will answer for it tomorrow. How can you usurp shelters when they're not in your jurisdiction and the biggest officials are using them and opening private companies, as if it were your dowry? You can't do that. You can't. There are other things you can't do. You have to understand that empty stories are enough, that construction needs to start, to build and work. Did Miskovic finally get your license for Delta City? I think you finally gave it to him. Is it possible for me to tell Djelic personally – Djelic, don't open "Delta Siti", no license, and he opened it? He doesn't care about that. Therefore, I wish you a lot of success in your work, that you do it, but also to be a little wise and to realize that construction is a serious branch in Serbia, that construction, besides agriculture, is a key business branch, which should be launched by this country. You run one ministry that's important, which is the key to this country, and there's nothing going on in it, it's just talking. That's what you're cleaning up Serbia... We need to clear the government first. Here, now you're starting to clean up the government, and then you're moving on. Because there's a brake. Do you understand? Why was the construction in the state completely stopped? Don't -- the economic crisis, don't tell us that. What is it now being built in Serbia? Where are those big construction sites? How could you not be ashamed to open that Aval Tower when I did everything by myself there, just waiting for the elevator, and providing the funds and doing everything? How could you not be ashamed to make speeches at the opening, to take pictures next to someone else's? It was radioactive material. How were you not ashamed to open that bypass around Belgrade, when you were not involved for two hours in the business? But you took the picture, that's where you all came in the set. Now we're listening to your dirty laundry. Now we're listening to your series, your series, which machines work, where they work, whose, as much as, how many, millions of euros a month, from where, how long, etc. That's your story, close the door and try. Clean up the government, we'll clean up Serbia easily. Serbia does not need to be cleaned, Serbia is smart enough to start it on its own, but the government has to clean up the vermin that sit inside, from pests that are very expensive, which cause a lot of damage and a lot of problems. When you do, then we can go to this second stage. Of course, someone serious, after he gets here... (President: Mr. Ilic, just compare a little terminology to this tall home. Yes, yes, I apologize, Madam President. Here, I'm gonna set it up a little bit to time and moment and it's gonna be all right. But you know how, "to the saint and the troupe," so our people say. Okay, you're gonna vote this, this is gonna go away, and nothing's gonna change in Serbia. Serbia will continue to do the same, construction will have no work, companies are jobless, construction workers without a job. Construction slowly dies, giants stop. Take the amount of concrete production in certain cities, that's proof of how much construction cost. So, you have to change the politics and those apartments and those beginnings of yours. When you said, Mr. Dulic, you start in March, right? Here, let Serbia finally begin. Right? But that's what it takes to change the law. Now, the issue of ownership, it's extremely important. You can't have someone else's country, who needs to go back to the process, which may or may not be under way, to translate someone else now. You can't sell someone else's pain and sweat. The defence minister can't come and give the Italian private company land to the Serbian Army in Kragujevac and say, "Here's everything, as he says," we give you everything. The Italian from the Fiat is private. Who can give a private, a stranger anything in this country for free? But with you, all that can be done and you make it official, legalize it. What did "Fiat" do for Serbia? You didn't see that. Do you know how many million euros we've invested? A billion and 200 million in the Fiat project has been spent so far. In this budget, 250,000 are planned, and "Fiat" is just testing something, writes, as you, the European Union, are filling out questionnaires etc. Boza Djelic, a late man, informs us every week that European integration is progressing, so that we will be satisfied. We ask when we will join the EU, that is an important issue for us, and for Serbia. Therefore, gentlemen, I won't bother you, you're doing your job, but, Mr. Dulic, I am friendlyly reminding you, leave these laws, all kinds of make-up and stuff, and go with construction firms to build. Serbia needs many apartments, Serbia needs to build, Serbia needs to go to foreign markets, Serbia needs to work, Serbia needs to be hired. Construction materials must be produced and a number of other things in Serbia must be started. We expect you as minister to do so. It's a priority, and we're gonna get everything else in order on the way, and we're gonna dress up, but it's important to see that construction is moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50830	Thanks, it's been 20 minutes. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50831	Thank you for your advice, Mr. Ilic. Of course, you didn't say anything new. All that stuff you said was supposed to be done already is done. It is done thanks to the extremely large activities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to save the construction sector in years in which the global economic crisis has done what it has done, in order, on the one hand, to increase the supply on the real estate market and on the other hand, to maintain or increase demand. In order for that to happen, we have taken several very important measures. The results of these measures are best known by those who were users of this, and these are our citizens who received subsidies for the purchase of apartments, subsidies for the purchase of domestic building materials, all those who, thanks to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will enter major projects at local level. So there is not one or almost any city in Serbia that will not have at least two or three construction sites opened this year, where all of those state projects that are unfortunately not built in the past will be built, such as hospitals, schools, housing complexes, social housing facilities, health homes, kindergartens, etc. We're doing all this just because we have to save her homework and give her a job. Of course, we also work because our citizens need to raise the quality of life. I've been going around Serbia intensively these days, and I have a chance to go to all these construction sites. Each of these sites will bring a new quality to the cities in which it is done in addition to the employment of domestic operatives. That, of course, is done from the state's money. There's an open story about promotions, about whether we have the right to promote ourselves politically when we work out of state money. What I can only say is -- if it wasn't for us, those projects wouldn't be there. So, as soon as possible, we managed to round up all the key and capital projects that concern the construction of public buildings in Serbia and to make them construction sites today, and to open up 244 sites during this year, complete a large part of them and give our citizens an extremely high degree or standard when it comes to the possibility of having a new hospital, a new school, a new kindergarten, a new sports facility or anything else that these local communities need. It is the first major project to be done to save Serbia's construction operation. The other big project you mentioned. Thank you for that. So the construction of four thousand apartments in the "Stepa Stepanovic" barracks is on the move. It's the largest construction project since Tito's time, to suddenly employ a construction operation that will number nearly 35,000 people and build 36,000 square feet of apartment. This, of course, is not enough to address all needs for Serbian apartments, but it is one huge project, which was implemented in record time, as regards land security, security of plans, all regulations, as far as investor security is concerned. It's not built on state money, it's built on project financing that banks will provide. So, the state is not in charge of this project, it has only managed to modernise between Serbia's Building Directorate, which is taking out a project financing loan... These pre-sales apartments are fantasticly sold and we can be happy that on this big construction project, I'm sure this big, huge construction operation in Belgrade this year will have work to do. The same project is being implemented at a location in New Belgrade at the moment. We hope that by the end of this government's term, we will have two major construction sites open, where more than 6,000 apartments will be built. To be honest, it's a big project and anyone who's well-intentioned has to say – that's not what the state did for a long time. Now she's doing it. The third major project is a social housing project, where we will provide construction of 1,600 and some apartments in twenty towns in Serbia. These will be apartments that will be sold at subsidized prices or will be built for rent for the most vulnerable social categories, and this is due to the Social Housing Act. Let me tell you one thing. No matter what very ugly words you sometimes say to me, I always admit when there's continuity in good things. It's true that you started the Aval Tower, but it's true that we finished it. It's true that when we came to the Aval Tower there was no more money, he stopped to one level, we found the funds and finished it. You know very well, because we talked about it, that in the statements I always thanked you, among other things, as someone who started the project. While you're criticizing me for it, please note that we've been correct since the beginning. The second project you started was the adoption of the Social Housing Act. You've never been able to bring it, we've defended it before this assembly and brought it and he'll give his manifestations. The building is, next to agriculture, the most important industrial branch. In this year, thanks to the projects that the government has done, thanks to the 244 major construction projects in Serbia and thanks to the large apartment building, which has not happened in the last 30 years, thanks to the construction of social housing, thanks to the construction of the infrastructure that is being worked intensively, because regardless of the delay, regardless of the criticism, both the north and the south and the east are currently being built and the highway is being built towards Šumadia and towards Požega... So these are all construction sites that work. Thanks to the other measures we have taken, I am sure that this year, as far as the construction sector is concerned, will be the year in which the construction sector will work, will be in plus and will contribute to the recovery of our economy, among other things, and thanks to this law that we are talking about today. The biggest problem is what happens to private investment. We're expecting them. We expect private investors to start investing, and above all, to build on these construction sites for which they have been granted building permits. I repeat, because I see that a constantly potent story – a new law came, a building stopped: the building stopped in 2008, the new law came into force on 1 September 2009. So, we have a problem because very few people today, due to the crisis, due to uncertainty, due to lack of financial resources, dare to buy what they essentially need, and these are apartments and business spaces; banks no longer follow them under the conditions under which they were followed; the state gives subsidies, and this is not enough for everyone to buy an apartment. You have one general uncertainty where construction investors won't invest in buildings they can't sell. At this point, several million squares in Belgrade cannot be sold, primarily in business space. So these are all objective problems. When we talk about an analysis of the situation in the building, you have to take, among other things, those parameters. So the building is in crisis because the building is in crisis all over the world. The main reason for this is the global economic crisis. I just want to say one thing at the end of the afternoon. Regardless of all the criticisms you've given and which have been directed towards the same goal, which is that the situation is improved, always consider whatever law you've written here and brought to me, the biggest problem in all the laws is their implementation at levels that aren't controlled by politics, in a system that we've neither created, nor you, which has been created for years, in which there are terrible problems due to years and decades of negative selection, due to poor working habits, because of the inadequacy to work for the benefit of citizens, and not for the benefit of your own pocket, because of the great tendency to corruption, due to great inefficiency, due to the fundamental informational illiteracy and refusal to accept any new work habits. Unfortunately, we're talking about our administration. She's who she is, and every one of you, if he's gonna be honest, he's gonna say it's true. That's gotta change. If we succeed just one step to shift the efficiency of the administration during the government's mandate, whoever comes after that will have a much easier job. Let's each move one step at a time, only then can we reach the level we need. The laws will come, go, change. If they don't implement themselves, and if they don't lead to me being a citizen, when I stop for a counter, I have a smiling worker who wants to help me solve my problem as soon as possible, and not constantly making it difficult for me, and to enjoy when I'm missing another piece of paper, and to look for it knowing that it'll delay my investment for a few months, and who doesn't care that he doesn't like to reject investors, which won't open any construction sites... They don't care, all they care about is endangering investment, protecting themselves or taking some money. As long as we have these situations, and unfortunately, you all know very well that this is a daily phenomenon in many of the institutions of this country, regardless of which, I repeat, who is in power, who is the politician and who is the minister, who is the president of the municipality, we are talking about a single rooted inefficient system, we will have problems with the reforms we are conducting in construction and urbanism. I think that's the focus of the debate, how we move forward here. By writing this law, we recognized the bottlenecks that appeared after the adoption of the law we proposed here in 2009. All the things the administration managed to turn into a narrow throat, into some ideadar in which it would create itself an arbitrary opportunity to take some kind of couple, we tried to amend this law to solve. That's what we'll do every time we see that there are problems. I think that's the focus of the debate. Everything else, did we make a solution one way or another... Well, in some municipalities, legalization itself managed to turn into pure corruption, where numbers were sold, where some were allowed something that was not in accordance with the law, others were not. Such problems have been found that were completely incredible, that there are people who work for the state, for the state money, and they are able to harass their fellow citizens, the poor and take their last dime to finish something that belongs to them anyway. You all know very well that it exists, because you all come from real life and you know what the situation is and by the municipalities, by the caves and everywhere. I think it's the key to all our problems. This law will solve a part of it. Let me tell you right now that I don't believe that all of a sudden, we're going to step forward in Serbia and all of a sudden it's going to go away. I'm sure they'll find new ways to make life more complicated for you. What we're only interested in is realizing that the political will to introduce order exists and that it will exist in continuity until one order is introduced. This year's construction operation will work, so make sure. She has to work, she feeds hundreds of thousands of people. One thing you have to understand, whoever's in power, with the crisis that we've faced hasn't been faced in generations before us, for decades this crisis has been gone. In principle, I think we've done everything possible for the state to hire a construction operation from their couples this year. I am glad and proud that we will finally finish the hospital in Vranj, which we will finally recover and build stadiums in Užica, Jagodina, Nis, which we will end the Clinical Center in Novi Sad, which we will make a closed swimming pool in Piroth, which we will solve so many problems that have not been solved for years and decades because there has been no investment in public facilities. So that's the project I'm behind and I absolutely think it's the best and it's going to improve everything that is life or the quality of life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50832	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It's break time. We will continue at 15.05 p.m., and according to the order of the Members of the People's Parliaments declared for a word in the principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Before we move on to the debate, and in accordance with the order of the Members of the People's Parliaments and the application for a word in principle, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 18 hours today, but not later than the completion of the debate on the agenda point. So, when we finish discussing the first item of the agenda, it'll mark the end of our working day. Tomorrow we will continue at 10 o'clock by discussing the second item of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Milisav Petronijevic, followed by MP Bojan Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50834	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, our position on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Planning and Construction, the position of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, was put forward by Dejan Radenkovic, our authorised representative, and I will not hold on much. I just want to say a few more words as a confirmation of that attitude. First, it's a very important law, a law on planning and construction. The two reasons we've heard here are to support these changes. The first reason is that it does not give up on the basic objectives set by the adoption of the basic law in 2009, and the second reason why it wants to speed up its realization by simplifying procedures and procedures, by precision, by removing ambiguity etc. I would like to make this particular note, because I believe that the Law on Planning and Construction is a very important law. These are, in fact, three laws: planning law, construction land law and construction law. Of all three, you don't know which is more important than who. We give full support to the government because it remains on the primary goal and the view that when it comes to planning, it makes an effort to reach the goal as soon as possible, which is that Serbia is plannedly arranged and covered in every piece of its territory. The second part, when it comes to building land, I just want to say briefly, is a very important part of the Law on Planning and Construction. I also want to support the fundamental effort not to give up on the basic objectives of the area, but to only clarify and simplify, some of the jobs in this regard are precise. Why would I want to mention that? When viewing building land, it is not only about whether it is arranged or not, traffic, lease, etc., this is about conversion, it is about the largest privatisation in Serbia after the privatisation of the housing fund. It is about a great wealth; even the wealth of municipalities and cities is measured on building land. I think they have to stay at three goals, which are: that such privatisation must be fair, socially just and the government must prevent "tacunisation" of building land. The third part of the law refers to construction and we want to support efforts to ensure that construction is arranged, that procedures are simplified and that costs are as low as possible. That's the essence, as I understand it, of the change in this law. What I want to point out in particular, that's this part about legalization. Legalization of illegally built buildings is a major state problem. Many governments have been trying to solve this issue, and this government has faced it and has also established, conditionally, three objectives since 2009: to write down all objects, to allow the legalisation of all objects other than those where there are no conditions (a short time ago the minister spoke of which cases) and, thirdly, to prevent further illegal construction. No matter how small or small the results are compared to what we expected, they must not give up. It must not give up on the following: such legalization, which is a characteristic of these changes and additions, must be mass. So everyone who meets the conditions to legalize it, but it has to be, which is again the subject of amending and supplementing this law, socially just. It doesn't matter if someone built a house to live in or build a house to get capital on it. I think there's a difference. Appreciateing the very importance of this law, I would ask the Proposer to pay attention to every detail, every question, for the simple reason that we all care, without questioning the strategic objectives of this law, to make it applicable, efficient, to make all of this possible. In this regard, I will warn you of a few questions, with the aim of giving the minister a chance to explain more in detail, so that there is no confusion. We all witnessed those experiences that we had, that in certain units of local self-government they asked permission to change the toilet in the apartment, etc., that was what we were talking about today, painting and so on. Just in order to stop coming into such situations, it is necessary to specify these things. I'll only mention three. In Article 51, it refers to the determination of market value, which is what the Government does, and in Article 2 – exceptionally, the local self-government unit. I ask, is this well thought out, and what does that mean, “exceptional, ” what are the conditions for something to be exceptional? Let's not get into a situation where both of us determine the elements of the facility's market value. Second question. In Article 78, there is one solution, quite commendable, that people living in residential buildings are 90 % free of payments by 25 m2 per household member for up to 100 square meters and over 100 squares to 60%. The same article in item 10 states that everyone has the right to the first hundred squares by 60%. Is it good mathematically all that calculated? Let's take an example of a man who lives in a house and a man who also has a house of up to 100 squares, and not living in it, will have 25 squares of 99%. What's going on with the other ones? And this one will have 60%. When all this is gathered together, will it be fair enough to appreciate the main story that we want to make possible the easiest way for those people who made it to live in these buildings? It is said in paragraph 12 that the owner of the facility can entrust the local self-government unit with the work of collecting documentation, later on and when issuing a building permit. I very much respect and greatly appreciate the government's efforts to make it as easy as possible, to make it possible for citizens, but I would like to warn – is it sufficiently elaborated, given the experience we had in the previous law? It's a service, as I would say, it's not a unit's job under the statute of local self-government, is there any possibility that the unit will trust those jobs again to some private, lawyer, etc? I think those questions deserve to be answered, to make it clearer and more precise when it comes to this law, and more applicable. In the end, I want to say that this government must not give up, nor should all other governments, that it is looking for solutions that will allow legal construction to be stimulating, easier, cheaper, but unfair construction. If we make it possible, we speed up this procedure so that a man can get to the permit first, then make it, I think it's better (this is an emergency, this has to be done), than if a man says – wait, it's cheapest for me to build it illegally, then I'll legalize it for small money, etc. Please pay attention to those things. Finally, to repeat what I said at the outset, we have given some amendments, not bringing essentially goals, in order to clarify some things, and in general, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50835	Ten minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50836	I'm going to give you a few answers very briefly regarding the legalization process itself. First of all, we have prepared all the accompanying sublaws that are necessary for the law to come into practice. I mean, first of all, the so-called. a general rule concerning the preparation and definition of procedures for the issue of building permits. The second will be the rule of legalization, which is now in preparation, which will provide answers to all these questions and dilemmas that you have asked today. The third is the regulation on the conversion of the right of use to property rights, with compensation. You have opened several important issues concerning legal formulations so that municipalities can make, in fact, zone the city, related to the assessment of market value. This is a legal formulation because the conversion regulation is legally stronger, but we expect that all major cities that have a large number of requests for conversion through this zone will significantly speed up the process because they will allow no more parties to focus on tax administration, or independent assessors who assess market value, but will be able to see with certainty what that market price is. As far as the legal issues you've opened are concerned, they're all the dilemmas we've had. The basic principle is clear; everything that will be worked out will be defined through the regulation on legalisation and through a specific guideline to local self-government in which we see the organisation of the collection of documentation on behalf of citizens. I will try to ensure, together with my government colleagues, local self-governments through public works, that they employ an adequate number of people who will be trained and empowered to explain in their homes the legalisation process themselves, to offer our citizens contracts that the municipality would sign with them, as we are prepared to help these local self-governments with financial problems, such as the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to contract what geodetic shootings, which make technical reports. That's what we also wanted to send as a message to local self-government. Why extremely? Because local self-government doesn't have to do that. I hope the big cities do it. I am sure that all those municipalities that are able to organise themselves well will do so, and I am sure that ultimately failure in legalization will encourage others to enter, like some other municipalities, the process of organising the collection of documents on behalf of our citizens. For all other questions, we are at our disposal. We've had some very good amendments, which we're going to accept, which are about extra-rebates on one-time payments, which are about how to define these questions you've asked, about the number of residents in apartments or houses. In any case, when the law is passed in the form that will mean the law as proposed and what we will adopt as amendment MPs, we will make sure that one kind of media presentation is clear to everyone what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50837	The word has the People's MP Bojan Đuric, and after him the MPs of Oedipus of the Sheriffs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50838	Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers, Judita Popovic, Vice-President of the National Assembly, spoke a lot about the positions of the Liberal-Democratic Party on this law, although I believe that many of our party's views are well known. Practically, 19-20 months, since the existing law, which we are trying to change in 90 regulations today, in force, the LDP has very clearly defined what is bothering us or what we think is not good at the existing law. After all, most of these remarks were made in July and August 2009 when the Law was discussed here. Somehow, Minister Dulic is out of luck, or lucky, with this bill of law. He comes here to parliament always at a time of great political turbulence. Last time, the government shook or shivered at the Information Act, so this law was in another plan and debate on it. At this point, the government's reconstruction is being discussed, but if I understand correctly the political rebus of which the prime minister said yesterday, less than 20 resors, more than 20 people, Mr. Dulic's ministry is not in any way controversial, so I think we can discuss something more relaxed about this law. I'm saying, Mrs Popovic was also talking about some concrete things. I'm just going to try to move back a step, try to talk a little bit about some kind of political atmosphere in which this law is adopted, that is, this part of it, which is not just planning, geodetic affairs, the adoption of plans, etc. Of course, it is very important and of course it is very important that Serbia finally becomes regulated in this sense, but this law in its significant work, primarily because of the issues it regulates, has serious economic consequences, in terms of the results of the government's economic policy, investment, decline or growth in economic activity, etc. I think, Minister, you've been pretty easy on that part this morning. By bringing down the whole story of the serious crisis of the construction industry and the construction operation, you are today insisting on this term here in the debate, as far as I can see, over the past two and a half years concerning this exclusively to the consequences of the global economic crisis. Of course, the crisis in both the world and ours has hit first and foremost investment, large investment and investment in the construction industry, but it will not be that it is the only reason for the downturn in the construction sector, the large number of jobs lost, closed companies etc., regardless of whether some of these companies today can be engaged through projects that you run, run and advertise or through some other kind of activity, first of all through that law that we still consider to be problematic and unconstitutional, which is called the Law on aiding the construction industry under the conditions of the economic crisis, if I have quoted correctly. You know, some other countries are affected by the global economic crisis. In this sector or in this segment, business activities were much more, at least at the initial stage, than Serbia, so they somehow pulled out and stopped at the green branch. I have some OECD data ahead of me, which is a relevant source in this area. I'm not talking about the most successful Western countries. They have a start-up advantage and institutional mechanisms why the crisis can be easier to overcome and get out of it, but there are countries that are at least comparable to Serbia. These are countries that have come out of the Socialist system, recently entered the EU, such as the Czech Republic and Poland, which in the past year have not only halted the decline in construction activities, but also seriously increased new investments, of course at the expense of some other EU countries that have failed in their model, such as Spain, Portugal and some other countries. One question is why some of these investments did not come to Serbia. There's a lot of reasons for that. The provisions of this law that we are amending today are certainly among them. You felt the need to especially point out that through this bill you do not give up the model of conversion and that part of the law that was a year and a half ago, but also in the meantime, we are still completely unwarranted, pushed into the first plan. In this way, more damage was simply produced than could be benefited from such provisions, especially given the fact that a year and a half later, we do not have any positive economic and financial effects. From such provisions, on the other hand, we have serious damage. You said at one point that the owners or potential investors themselves were discouraged by the original amounts, that this process was therefore slowed down, and of course, because of some other decisions by other state authorities that were not adequate. It is obvious that this part of the law changes to a good extent, regardless of whether you say or admit that in some part you have given up these great expectations or to offer some kind of imaginary justice that has been propagated through this law, especially at the time of its adoption. We have submitted some amendments to that part of the law. We'll talk about them in more detail. The Liberal Democratic Party has submitted, I think, seventeen amendments. I believe that some of them will be accepted and are acceptable to your government, but in this place we have submitted amendments concerning Articles 104 and 108 of the basic text of the law. These are members of the 49th and 51st new bill. So, that situation, you mentioned in part in your response to Mr Petronijevic, when the government, or the exceptional units of local self-government, adopt sublaws that regulate the criteria and levels of compensation. On the other hand, in Article 104, you are practically correcting the lack of a decision of the Constitutional Court, i.e. the obligation provided for in the old law, to complete the conversion process within a certain time limit. In Article 104, you are due to apply for 30 days, under the threat of losing the right to use and to move to the property of local self-government. On the other hand, for the government and even for the units of local self-government in the text of the law, it is not envisaged to provide for a binding deadline within which to adopt sub-legislative acts. I believe in your word that sublegal acts are prepared, but given the experience of Serbia, we deeply believe that it is much better in the law to define the deadline, and then that any other deadline that makes citizens, businesses, any legal entity loses any right, you bind, or start that deadline, to fulfil the obligation of the government or local self-government units, whatever. At one point you said, you were absolutely right, that perhaps the most important issue from the point of view of the widest circle of citizens, the question that hurts, I think it was your formulation, practically the whole of Serbia or most of Serbia -- the issue of legalisation. I agree with the views expressed here, that such a model of legislative intervention in the rules of legalisation, i.e. determining the amount of compensation and discount on such a fee on the one hand, is good. It is a great help to a huge number of people who have entered this process either because it was the only way to solve their existential issues or because of the failure of the state, which in the past years or decades has not been able to always serve every request or any idea of construction, even when they were in everything according to the rules of the profession. You cannot bring into such an unequal situation citizens, though few, who have been safe, who have so far managed to complete the legalisation process and bring it to an end and, on the other hand, other citizens who have essentially not yet entered or submitted an application for legalisation by 1 March 2009, mostly without accompanying documents, without any documentation. Some kind of satisfaction must also be given to these people, no matter how many their numbers, who in time entered the legalization process, did it, regulated their rights and obligations, legalized the facility and paid for it, which is certainly not small for these people. The last question I will address is the question of Articles 89 and 78, respectively. It's a bill of law. Minister, you are trying to impose some kind of financial sanctions on those provisions of the law, which is always the most effective sanction, for those who have not reported their legalisation facilities, or their demands have been denied, which is not disputed. Introduce the obligation to pay the triple value of the determined land compensation, if I'm not mistaken. This may also have some kind of life and legal race and not be disputed from the point of view of the constitutional position and equality of the citizens, but this third basis, where you are talking about people who have not concluded a contract under Article 185. The law on planning and construction is, among other things, that contract with the local self-government unit, with the municipal or city administration on mutual rights and obligations in the legalisation process, collection of documents, etc., also pay this triple amount. If you've already defined yourself to give the possibility of closing a contract, then there must be some freedom to negotiate. You cannot impose an obligation on people to conclude with a state or part of it a contract where they are in a weaker position. It will essentially be a classic form of a formal contract, since more or less units of local self-government will define conditions under the threat that otherwise they pay compensation for building land, which I see is the idea of it growing, being integrated into the property law system and is some sort of tax liability or some kind of tax that is paid every year. I don't think such a provision is in line with the Constitution, that it's discriminatory, but we'll see how it works in practice. Finally, when you speak of Article 78, this is attitude 11, you bind that deadline to June 31, 2012. I've checked several times, I think June's 30 days old, so I expect that mistake to be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50839	Ten minutes and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by the People's MP Edip of the Sheriff, and after that, the MP of the People, Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50840	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the MPs of our ZES Group have little to say after the phenomenal presentation of honorary colleague Bojana Stanojević in this morning's session, but when I'm so caught up in it, I'm going to take this opportunity to be brief, to focus on some of the most important things, some important places in this law. Whoever carefully read the amendments and additions of this Law on Planning and Construction could have very clearly concluded two things: firstly, that the Ministry of Spatial Planning together with the people of the professional public and members of the local self-government very seriously followed and analysed the application of this law on the ground and accurately defined all the faults and neural points that this law has, and secondly, that the proposed changes and additions were very high-quality, that the fundamentally modified members who had not functioned in the original text of the Law and that very precisely defined new legal provisions and clarified all existing misunderstandings. Although most of the previous speakers who debated these amendments today and the additions to the Law have apostrophe of legalization as the most important thing of these changes, I would disagree. I believe that there is more important progress made by these changes and additions than is regulated in legalization. First, essential progress has been made by enabling direct land conversion to old owners, i.e. former users; secondly, simplified procedures for the issue of all types of building permits have been accelerated. In order to facilitate the monitoring of changes and additions to this law, we can place them in four basic groups: those related to the conversion of land, related to the construction of buildings, the legalisation process and, ultimately, the area of urban planning. The conversion was a revolutionary part of the basic text of the Law that we adopted two years ago and that, in my opinion, is the greatest reform in this original text. For the first time, it has seriously approached the real problem of property relations in this country. Private property is defined, i.e. the right to convert from user to property. Free conversion was possible only on built land, but it was very slow due to the burden of the Republic Geodesy Institute, which, in my opinion, was the greatest braker of the implementation of part of this law in the previous two years. The new solutions are highly simplified because the right of automatic acquisition is defined for persons who have the right to do so, without compensation, as well as for conversions with compensations that have been accelerated in these changes and additions, where there is a real problem of determining the real price of building land, as well as the length of that process. I hope that the regulation that the Ministry will pass after this law will be a little more specific to those urban areas given by local self-government. I would like to appeal to the Ministry at this time to try to engage along with local self-governments in defining the rules for these urban areas, because there is a big difference between the zones, and there is a big difference between local self-government and local self-government. Please, if you can, influence local self-government to balance it in the territory of all Serbia. What is more important in this part of the law is that the difference that existed between the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Planning and Construction, related to the re-use of agricultural land in construction land, has been overcome. The year of the cut is 1992, so that people living in urban areas will no longer have a problem in conversion, they will not have to redeploy agricultural land in construction land. What my predecessors haven't mentioned is that there are two other important things in this part of the law. A private-public partnership institute has been established. I hope that the Republic of Serbia will make a special law on private-public partnership so that many other areas subject to this law can be defined. This means, in the building, that the state and private entrepreneurs can be partners by giving the state land in public property, and private entrepreneurs invest. This creates a partnership that is present in almost all EU countries. Another important thing is that the unbuilt building land can be registered here for the first time as founding capital in business entities. The second group of amendments refers to building facilities, where significantly accelerated and simplified procedures are needed to lead to a faster and better quality issue of all types of permits, as well as some changes that will affect the halting of corrupt processes that are common in institutions dealing with the issue of building permits. Namely, building buildings does not require consent to the main project of public-communal enterprises, unless specified precisely in the local authorisation. Also, the building permit is issued on the basis of an idea project, which significantly costs the construction of technical documentation and its possible change, and speeds up the process. Also, the law clearly defined what not all the local authorisation should be obtained, as well as the concepts of current and investment maintenance, which was a lot of words in all the means of information in the previous period. Namely, these papers only allow a list and a description of the works being carried out, so that they can be started. Also, two other things are important in this area, related to the functioning of the competent authorities. The competent authority may only request an update of the documentation once. Users are allowed to use objects without the use of permission if they have not received a response within 90 days from the competent authority. The third group of amendments, which today is the most apostrophe in parliament, are amendments and additions related to the legalisation part. This is the process that probably interests Serbian citizens the most right now. Here, the ministry has shown a clear momentum that the process is successfully completed, that it is effective and financially acceptable for almost all citizens of Serbia who want to legalise their illegally erected facilities. Special attention was taken to endangered and social categories, which this time have the right to major discounts and can effectively resolve this process. The basic newspaper is that the owners of illegally raised objects can conclude a contract with a local self-government unit where the local self-government unit commits to obtain all necessary documentation and conduct the legalisation process for people who have illegally erected facilities. The process must be successfully completed within four years, extending the period already in place, from 20 years to 24 years, when legalisation should be completed. The Republic of Serbia is guaranteed that there will be financial support for the process to be successfully completed. If you listened carefully to public debates, and today, people from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Ecology, the cost of legalising an average 100-square facility in a middle city in Serbia should not exceed the price of 500 dinars per month in the first four years, if I remember correctly. A list of evidence accepted in the legalisation process has been extended as evidence of resolved property relations. It was the biggest stumbling block for successful legalization. Co-owners who have not objected to the construction of the facility are considered to be compatible with legalisation, so that these parts of the property will be successfully overcome. In the end, the last part of the law is about urban planning. In my opinion, in the first part of the text, there was progress. In this part of the law, a major step has been made over the past two years. Most of the local self-government in Serbia has joined or already completed the development of major-important plans, so Serbia will finally be covered by plans in a short period of time. Also, the changes and additions brought here will significantly speed up this process. No more designing the concept of the plan, which was a pre-development for the development of the plan. It is faster to change plans when some very important infrastructure projects are being carried out. For the first time, the concept of the complex was defined. You have that story that if you're doing some big construction project that affects multiple cadastrian plots, you won't need more than one location permit per project. The general regulation plan is complemented by the content of analytical elements, such as regulatory and construction lines, nivelation corners of intersections. My opinion is that on this basis, the possibility will be given again to issue local permits from the PDR where possible, in the future. All in all, the ZES Parliamentary Group and its members thank the people of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Ecology who, according to us, accurately and precisely defined the problems and solved them by these amendments and additions to the Law. I am convinced that these changes in the next period will effectively improve the application of the Law, which was problematic. I want to finally appeal to the Ministry for a little more dealing with the situation at the Republic Geodetic Institute, whether by changing its structure or by the way it works, because it has been defined by all the people who actively follow the application of this law that the Republic Geodetic Institute has just been the greatest braker of the application of this law in the past two years. If we don't make any fundamental changes, there won't be much progress with these changes either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50841	Ten minutes and forty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. After him, the People's Messenger, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50842	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, there were ministers here from the Democratic Party, I am speaking to you, Mrs Kolundzija, as the heads of this group, who sat here – Malovićka, Sutanovac, etc. The minister left for lunch at 1:00 p.m., now he's been here ten minutes after the break and he's gone; if that's why you're thanking him, then fine. If you thank him for trying to eliminate the problems he caused by the adoption of the 2009 Act, and that's okay, better ever than never. All that we said in 2009, that it would stop the Housebuilding Act, or building, that it couldn't in one law push and solve property and plan construction, that at least two laws were necessary for that, all of this is today, but come on, we're fixing it. We've submitted seventeen amendments. To the extent that you accept these amendments, so much will be corrected by the law. Unfortunately, we can't give amendments to members you didn't anticipate for a change, so much more amendments could be there, but what's there is, let's go. My colleagues have talked about the concrete solutions that we want to fix in this change of law, and I'm only going to stick to something that's important for foreign investment. You have deleted in Article 101, by amending Article 145, the right to conversion without the remuneration of the tenants for over 50 years, who have built buildings, and you have left the one in Article 101(1) – whoever has acquired, I do not know on what basis, the right to use the country can be converted without compensation. We think that those who have invested (I'm talking about companies) some capital, borrowed land, in public tendering, which means they've leased at market values, paid upfront rent for over 50 years, must be equal to those of Article 1, which you don't change. We think it's a mistake or some kind of courtship to local self-government to delete attitude 3 from article 101's original text. You also have to let those who took the lease, paid the market price of the lease, paid the rent in advance, talked about renting for over 50 years, built the buildings (what they had committed to) to convert without a rent fee, or the right to use in property. After all, it was written in the Law. For some reason, by deleting attitude four, you deleted paragraph 3. You know that many companies have entered here, some won't enter the 99-year lease, they want to own a land, such as Ikea, but some investors have entered and accepted the lease for over 50 years, because they couldn't buy, and they wanted to invest. Deprive them of the right to convert to property without compensation, erase it and leave them at the mercy of local self-government (because the only solution can be that now it is the relationship between local self-government and these investors), we think it is not fair. Don't contribute, let's say, to our country's foreign investment attractiveness, and it puts them in an unequal position. When it comes to the 2009 Law, it's the only provision we wouldn't change or one of the few provisions we wouldn't change, and you've just found to delete that provision. We think that you should consider, after all, it is in the interest of this country, to attract foreign investment, and to repay the debt to those who, despite the inability to become the owners of the country, have invested money in this country, whether domestic or foreign investors have accepted to enter the lease, have paid the rent, and now cannot, by the changes you propose, become the owners of that country. We think it was a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50843	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Djordje Milicevic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Maja Laushević. The LDP parliamentary group has taken advantage of the time available to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50844	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The Honorable Presidency, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think a lot has been said in the debate so far. I will try to be relatively brief and look back at what the SPS-JS Parliament Club considers to be the most important segment when it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, which we are talking about today. At the very beginning, I would like to say once again that the draft law on planning and construction came into force in September 2010. It is said, as has been said many times today, of one system law, one of the most important system laws related to the development of construction, but I would say, for the development of Serbia's overall economy. What I'm saying is that this law has introduced more order and legality into the area of construction and of course it hasn't stopped the construction operation. I would like to point out once again that this law is a regulated area relating to both building land and planning, building buildings, overseeing the application of the provisions of this law, carrying out inspection controls, but also other issues that are important for the editing of space, editing and use of building land and building buildings themselves. It is perfectly logical that, after a certain period of time, when it comes to system laws, they consider and consider the effects of applying system laws in practice, of course, with the aim of obtaining an even better quality of the law, if necessary, through certain changes and additions to advances, or repairs. As mentioned in the reasoning of this legislative proposal, inter alia, the review procedure found that some solutions should be more precisely defined, aligned with the views of the courts, in particular when it comes to provisions concerning the assessment of constitutionality and legality. For these very reasons today, we are talking about the amendment and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction. It is true that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law are extensive – it is proposed to amend 68 members, it seems to me, about seven new members, which is about a third of the Law on Planning and Construction – but, most importantly, it does not change the essence of the law itself. It continues to insist on the introduction of planning documents, the introduction of private property on building land, the accelerated procedure for issuing permits and legalisation; reforms in the area of construction continue, i.e. the introduction of order in this extremely important area. The aim of the proposed changes and additions, simply put, is to speed up, simplify and facilitate procedures. I want to say that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the law in the voting day. By supporting these proposed amendments and additions, we want to actually support the goal that is to be achieved by their adoption, when it comes to this extremely important system law. As is said, the most important newspapers are in the area of building land and the conversion of land use rights into property rights, according to the Constitutional Court's decision. A supplement of Article 104 has been proposed, setting a deadline for the submission of applications for the conversion of the right of use to property rights, ensuring that this provision is applied in general, but also creating the possibility for the conversion to be completed as soon as possible. Thereafter, changes were made in the area of urban planning, construction permits and the legalisation of illegally erected facilities, as has been said during today's debate. When it comes to planning, it is irrevocably entered into the process of introducing order when it comes to the adoption of urban acts. It is very important that there is a political will for Serbia to be settled this way. This proposal provides for a simplification of the procedure for the change of the planning document. It is therefore foreseen that the detailed regulation plan for the construction of municipal infrastructure facilities can also be carried out exceptionally when the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government has not been established, and the location permit is issued only for the construction of new facilities and the construction of already existing facilities. When it comes to legalisation, I want to say that it is important that the legalisation process in Serbia is finally completed. We agree that it did not stop illegal construction, but it has significantly less than in the past period of time. Therefore, a reduction is provided for certain categories, an increased and precise number of evidence which determines that the applicant has a solution to the property-legislative relationship and provides for the possibility that local self-government, on behalf of and on behalf of the applicant, collects the necessary documentation in the process, and the applicant pays for a period of several years, which is also of exceptional importance. As far as building permits are concerned, we want to believe what Mr. Minister said will prevent this proposal from being too slow, bureaucratized, building permits, which is also important. Finally, I would like to highlight and refer to Article 60, which refers to the addition of an existing member of 140. The law – a building permit for investors is valid for five years, during this period they will have to complete the facility and obtain a used permit. If that doesn't happen, the investor pays the fee as if the facility was built. This change, in our opinion, is also extremely important because it increases investor responsibility. In the end, I want to make it clear and precise once again that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50845	Six minutes and twenty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group, and this also used the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Maja Lausevic, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50846	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. So far, it has been said, in today's debate, that we recently passed the Law on Planning and Construction and that it is not necessary to bring amendments and additions. I believe that this is an example of good practice and the result of monitoring the process, in which the representatives of the proposing, more specifically the Ministry, looked at all the problems in this broad area and implemented it in the draft law on planning and construction. We can say that they are very important, and I would like to absorb them, two areas: the conversion of rights of use into property rights and the area of legalization, which is very interested in our citizens. Article 101a, i.e. in Article 46, removes the legal gap relating to the fact that persons registered as holders of the right to use on unbuilt construction land in the public property in the public book on the registration of immovable property and rights on them cease the right to use and move into property rights, without compensation. In the particulars search itself, it will be said that, and it is complementary with positive legislation, which the representatives of the ministry have also recognised, set a deadline of 60 days in which the competent authorities will be obliged to comply with that requirement, which is analogous to the silence of the administration. Furthermore, what is very interesting is the issue of legalisation; 770,000 objects are in the legalisation process. This procedure is complex, and what is perfectly proposed by this bill is to introduce a surplus payment, which would mean for our citizens that they are allowed to pay legalisation to wars. On the other hand, what's very important is that there is a possibility of closing a contract with local self-government. In this way, this galaxy that exists, a lot of these documents that exist will be in one place and the conclusion of the contract with local self-government will simplify the procedure, which is complicated. A number of newspapers are covered by this law; counterpart Oedipus Sheriffov highlighted changes concerning the area of public-private partnership and other areas, i.e. the introduction of building land into a founding role. The ZES parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50847	Three minutes and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Srdjan Milivojevic, followed by Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50848	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about any law, we must say that the law is not a set of ideas, imaginations, thesis, but a set of views and courts based on facts and reality. My colleagues here have said in an excellent way how the profession feels about these amendments to the law. She spoke well of Bojana Stanojevic, and after Mr. Edip Sheriff's brilliant speech, I don't think I need to talk about the professional aspects of this law, but I have to say about some qualifications, not because of colleagues who earn and people who don't understand this law, but because of those political parties and their representatives who have brought political qualifications here when it comes to this law. It's a figure of 40,000 people in the building area who lost their jobs. I would ask immediately for Mr Oliver Dulic's shift, as a national MP, if only in Serbia had been fired for 40,000 workers, but in the world 5.000 construction workers were out of work. I remember a time when there was time everywhere in the world, and there was a storm in us, but if the storm is everywhere in the world, and even with us in Serbia, I have to show responsibility and understanding for such a consequence. If only in Serbia were the collapse and crisis of the construction industry, it would be the failure of both the ministry and this government, after all, of the party I belong to, the failure of the Democratic Party. The crisis is not an excuse, it's a fact, and it says that due to major disturbances, primarily in the real estate market, the construction industry around the world is losing losses, it records the decline of the number of people who deal with buildings everywhere in the world, due to a lack of market left out of work. The next year there are the London Olympics, and only then may there be an increase in the volume of construction works, primarily due to the London Olympics and then to economic recovery throughout the world. On the other hand, we have also heard serious qualifications at the expense of this law, that after 18 months we bring amendments to the law and that we only change existing laws. I don't think the construction situation is going to fix even if the styrofoam factories are going to work in three shifts, or if this insulating material that's going on hastily in three shifts... Nor if the coalition partner "vodvode of styrofoam" sets out to pave Serbia. We've heard criticism here at the expense of the roads in Smederev, about craters on the way. I'll just remind you of the words in the election campaign, in the same Smederev: "I'll steal half a metre of asphalt on the highway, so I'll give you in this village." When you steal half a metre of asphalt on a highway and give it to a village somewhere, then in two years you have craters on the highway, and it's a perfectly normal phenomenon. I don't think the construction law can know half the solutions, stealing and stealing on the highway, but it has to answer the needs of citizens specifically and give some important answers to these questions. I'll also point out some irregularities we've faced in the past. In a city in Serbia, a man bought city building land on a bid to build a family house. Then someone showed up and asked him to pay compensation for refurbishing the land from the farm to the city building. If he paid it at auction as a city building, then it must be accepted by the fact that it is city building land and cannot pay any compensation now; then it should be sold as agricultural land, and at a city building site. What's good in the legal solution, when it comes to legalisation, is the fact that only once a citizen can return to the counter, only once a citizen can be returned for incomplete documentation. The obligation of the people who work in that administration, who follow the documentation that the citizens file, is to carefully check every piece of paper. It's a good thing that older citizens, I think of them, can't go back forever because of this paper or that paper and that one piece of paper, or the lack of one piece of paper, is a reason for people to come back for who knows which time. A special problem in the past was... That's why people like the priest Pera Jarakovic from White Water, who came and told me – here, I want to marry my son, I want to build a house for my son, but I can't build a house because a detailed regulation plan has not been done in White Water; they told me it will be over in a year, and I'm marrying my son this year and I want to build him a house this year. Let's find a solution to speed up this procedure. What I want, and what's the principle, is that you don't give up on conversion and that conversion is done everywhere, equally and justly, that conversion is not charged on a flat-rate basis. I witnessed that in a city in Serbia, people who evaluated certain building plots estimated this plot more than its market value, more than it was paid, several times more. People were forced to pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights at that estimated value, although this market value was not well assessed. It is registered in the property of the firm under these conditions, although it was purchased by another privatisation company. Workers in the company are now rebelling over why the plot was sold at one price, and the appraisers estimate it at a higher price. It is very easy for us in Serbia to create a conspiracy theory and to say that someone has disturbed something. Finally, I have to say another important note, and I will use the quote from the book "Parliamentary Procedural Law" for all those who do not understand why we are changing this law this time. It may be clearer to them, it may make a different decision when it comes to voting on this law, when they hear the following paragraph: “The legislator is wise, because the social phenomenon does not look isolated and lonely, but is linked to all other phenomena and events that occur, that is, in society. ” Given that we have a vision of what this society will look like in five, ten and twenty years, if we want Serbia as a country governed by the laws of the modern civilised world, I will certainly vote for this law, MPs of the Democratic Party will vote for this law, and I think this paragraph has made clear the need for all of us to understand our activities and vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50849	Seven minutes and fifty-five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, and then by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50850	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard this morning a minister who explained the amendment and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction. On this occasion, he told us that it is necessary to further speed up the process of issuing building permits, further simplifying these procedures in order to allow the investment cycle in the area of construction to be accelerated, to speed up the recovery of the collapsed construction industry, etc., to further simplify the procedures and reduce costs for legalisation of buildings. When you hear something like that, nobody really has a bad intention of not believing it, but by looking and reading what Minister Dulic said a year and a half ago when we adopt the previous law, we come across almost the same sentences and almost the same paragraphs. The Ministry's intention is to make legalisation mass and fair, with mass meaning that all facilities for which there is a possibility will be legalised with minimum documentation, it was said on that occasion in June 2009. Also, at that time it was said that one of the pillars of the reform adopted by this law was to simplify the procedure for issuing building permits. On the World Bank reference list, Serbia is inaccessible 171 when it comes to obtaining building permits, which is an alarm that needs to let us know that our procedures are complicated and that Serbia needs to simplify these procedures, i.e. to speed up the time for obtaining a building permit. So this is what the state should have done, the competent ministry and this government – to simplify procedures, to speed up the issue of building permits and allow investors to invest in this country without obstacles or with fewer obstacles and thus to improve the investment climate and improve citizens' standards. What happened in this year and a half? First, it is highly illogical that this large law, which we worked on a year and a half ago and adopted it, is being changed after such a short time, and we do not only change it in individual members, but, for God's sake, in almost 60% of the members, so that this can no longer be called the law on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, but could even be called a new law on planning and construction. Instead of simplifying the process of obtaining building permits and cutting time for those permits, Serbia fell five places. At that time, according to the minister's words, it was 171st, and today Serbia is in 176th place. Instead of speeding up the process, he seems to have slowed down. Instead of being simpler, they seem to be more complicated. Today Serbia is in 176th place, according to a World Bank survey, which is neither a recommendation nor an interesting one, for both domestic and foreign investors. Also, the minister said it was a delusion that the law stopped construction in Serbia. In 2009, according to statistics, construction in Serbia fell 50%, down 23% in 2010 compared to 2008. So anything that's said absolutely can be denied by clear statistics. According to the data I own, between 800 and 1000 building permits are issued annually in Nis under the old Law on Planning and Construction, which was valid in 2009. Now that number is three to four times smaller. So no more than 250 - 300 permits are issued annually in Nis under the new law. Also, according to investors, it took about two to three months to get all the papers for construction, some average time. At the beginning of this law, it took up to six months; now it's a little bit more stalking, not six more, but four to five months. Therefore, not only according to these data, but also in the opinion of relevant experts, this law has only introduced interference in the area of planning and construction and further complicated and slowed down the process of issuing building permits, which of course also affected the decline of production in the construction industry, the dismissal of workers and the poor condition and poor investment climate in this country. Also, the minister told us that the state had previously worked massively without permission and that this law, one member, provided that the state would be able to legalise these illegally built facilities under some special procedure. We ask ourselves, why did citizens build objects without permission, and they don't want to legalize them, or pay for them? If the state can work without paper, then why wouldn't the citizens do it? If the state authorities, starting with the President of the Republic, the Government, the ministries and all others, do not pay municipal costs, how do you expect poor citizens to do so? So the state is an example in everything, and the good one, but it seems to me that the good one has very little and much more in the bad one. No one has the right to ask citizens to do something and comply with the law if not the ministers or members of the government themselves, the entire state administration does not adhere to it. We've reached the legalization process. At that time, the minister said it is necessary for illegally built facilities to be legalised in Serbia to enable all citizens to use these facilities in a legal manner, to put them on the market, to take loans based on them, etc. The ministry's intention, a year and a half ago, said the minister, is to make legalisation mass and fair, with mass meaning that all the facilities for which there is a possibility will be legalised with a minimum of documentation. Today, the minister gave us one newspaper, which reads like this – he stopped the legalisation process, it's a lot of paper, it's very expensive, property relations are unresolved, and we need to further change the law in this area and allow the facilities to be legalised, because the initial costs are 500 euros, I suggest that it be for four years for citizens to have as little cost as possible, etc. It says, 99% will be a discount for the first hundred squares, 60% discount on the other hundred squares, etc. Tell me, please, on the basis of which parameters did these percentages occur? How are you going to explain to people who, I guess, agreed to build facilities with permits, at the expense of paying communal costs, that they were wrong when they obeyed the law and when they did it in the way that the procedure requires, if we now allow all those who were building illegally? Of course, among them is the largest number of those who could not pay; these people in cases of social need should be allowed free legalisation, but I am afraid that many others who built buildings will pass through this legalisation process not only for their own purposes, but perhaps fairies or something that cannot be considered a living need. Finally, it was said that since the date of the previous law, therefore, since September 2009, the state has ceased to build paper-free facilities, i.e. for every facility that invests from a state or local budget, there must be valid papers. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you come to Nis and ask, that is, to pass by the boulevard of Zoran Djindjic, who has been reconstructed for a year, that you seek only one piece of paper on the basis of which this boulevard is made. Just one, you don't need a building permit to finish, or a major project, just one paper to give you, to say -- here, on this paper, we do this boulevard. Not to talk about other things. I will only comment on another member of the law in the end, which is Article 60, which says that the building permit ceases to apply if within five years of the date of eligibility of the solution granted by the building permit is not issued, except for the facilities referred to in Article 133. If the facility does not end in those five years, if the investor does not complete the facility, it will cease to be valid for the building permit, i.e. it will be able to extend the building permit for another two years if 80% of the facility is completed, which will say he covered the facility, placed the carpentry, etc. What about those people, and unfortunately those people in Serbia are getting more and more every day because of this government, completely incompetent, who destroyed our lives and the standard of citizens, who have entered into building their facilities to solve their housing issues, but because of lack of money, losing their jobs or not giving God any other unforeseen event can't these objects end within the scheduled time limit? Is there a situation like this? What are we gonna do with them? We'll withdraw the license because someone didn't have enough money to finish their house, so he'll have to do what he built to sell to someone else, because you predicted that someone else could get a building permit at that location, not someone who owns the land and part of the building. I think this law has been completely missed and is first and foremost brought for the reason why Telecom is being sold, and this is the upcoming election campaign. It is necessary to prepare and invest additionally with voters by telling them that we will legalise their houses, their facilities for free, that they will be able to do it for 15-20 years, that it will cost them all a minimum, to get another vote. The concept of the law has been completely missed, no newspapers have brought nor will change anything new bring it, and therefore the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group cannot support it and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50851	Twelve minutes and fifteen seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Zoran Antic has the word, followed by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, which changes even to 90 members, out of 220 members, how many initial laws he had. We passed this law some year and a half ago, and I cannot agree with those MPs of the ruling majority who claim that this law is good, because if we have so many amendments in such a short time, it is certain that the Ministry did not at that time see the right situation on the ground and the real needs of citizens and that a number of solutions in that law were not agreed upon. We have also claimed that the law itself is too ambitious, that in the Law we want to solve many things that have been buried years and decades ago and that such a legal project is not possible, that it should have been considered that certain problems in the area of construction, urbanism, are particularly going to legalisation problems, possibly restitution; then, planning and construction must also be treated separately; institutions that enter into laws must be much clearer. But there was not much understanding at the time by the ruling majority, it was hasty to convince the citizens that within a relatively short period of time, in some two years, it seems to me that you promised, that all those illegally raised objects in Serbia are legalised, and that this law is quite enough for the job to be done. So, definitely this law then, as it is now, unfortunately, after these changes, was quite general, superficial. In itself, he doesn't solve all the problems, as I said, that have accumulated in this area for decades. What is extremely important for the SNS is that this law, while solving certain problems that have been identified through practice – which is another criticism of the Ministry, because the Ministry should have a vision when solving and proposing a legal project, not based on what is happening on the ground to change within relatively short deadlines – this legal project that you are offering, regardless of all improvements, will not solve all problems on the ground and will not mean a significant improvement in the situation, particularly when it comes to legalising buildings and the speed of obtaining a building permit, which has not significantly improved in the previous period. What may be the biggest regret of the Serbian Progressive Party is the fact that a number of sublegal acts that follow the previous law, and which follow this law, has not been passed, that a very large number of these sublegal acts. According to some people who are more professional in this area than I am, to explain the information, that number is close to sixty sublegal acts, which need to be adopted and implemented by the Ministry in order for the law itself to produce results. Then, we have a major problem of political will to implement this law in practice, primarily in local self-government territories. In this law, we do not have sanctions for those local self-governments that eventually bounce off the deadlines, sanctions for individuals who do not comply with the legal provisions of this law. There are also a number of other issues with sublaws. Let's just say, in major cities, we don't have a single record of property owned by the state, owned by municipalities. This significantly hampers any planning of the purpose of land available to the state and municipalities. The big problem also remains in the area of commissions, the composition of committees that are being formed and which are often politically formed, which have a basic goal of pushing the larger funds into the registers of local self-government. They often bypass some urban requirements, as money and funding for local self-government have priority over some long-term goals that, according to the Serbian Progressive Party, should still be in the first place. As for legalisation, there are a large number of facilities, between 600,000 and 700,000, which are registered for legalisation, but the number of requirements that have been resolved is extremely small. I haven't heard from the minister what the exact number is. I have no doubt there are, but according to what we can see in the media, it's an incomplete 5% of the number of requests that have been submitted. This best shows that even in this area, the legalization area, we have very big problems. There is also a series of problems based on the members of this law offering certain discounts. The fact is that a good part of these funds goes into the registers of local self-government, that we already have a maternal relationship of the Republic government towards local self-government, that no law on transferable assets belonging to local self-government has ever been respected, that this way local self-government will be further damaged and there will be a smaller contribution of funds to their budgets, without seeing how the Republic Government, the republican government thinks it replaces the lack of these funds. It is also necessary that this law, the Law on Planning and Construction, be in line with the property law, which is expected in a future period, given that in the process of joining the European Union, relations are of great importance and, I have no doubt, will be a very serious issue with which the EU will face this government. Thus, only through this brief description of the problem can it be seen that much more needs to be done in the area of planning, construction, urbanism, in order to correct everything that is problematic, as the practice has shown, in some future period. The Serbian Progressive Party has come before the government, before the ministry, with about 20, 30 amendments. We think that part of these amendments can significantly correct the situation and the indeterminateness of this law. One of the big problems that we have tried to solve with these amendments is that we do not have enough selective access when it comes to citizens who built objects for their own needs in relation to those entrepreneurs who build buildings to achieve some income on this basis. We reacted in that part with a few amendments. I think we have a very serious problem, and when it comes to the indetermination of parcels, when it comes to the correction of borders. We sincerely hope that these amendments by the promoters will be treated in one correct way, possibly accepted, at least in one part to correct this problem. I'm sorry to finally have to say, I think we'll be seeing each other in the coming period, unfortunately, about the Law of Planning and Construction very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50853	Nine minutes and ten seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Bojan Mladenovic has the word, followed by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50854	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Serbian citizens, the current Law on Planning and Construction, the Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly criticised the previous period. Evidence that the law is not good is the Constitutional Court's decision, which put out force Article 104(4) of the applicable law. We didn't expect that there would be 90 members in the amendment to this law, that you would change so many members. We believe that a law that is of paramount importance to the citizens of Serbia should not have so many changes in such a short period of time, because this law covers areas of concern and land transfer, the issue of building permits, legalisation, for which a large number of Serbian citizens are interested. The conversion of land rights, we don't know exactly what price it's going to be. It must be taken into account the location of the land, the purpose of the land and, above all, the market value of that land. We know that during the previous period, tycoons bought businesses to get to cheap land, on which they later built buildings, salt mills to sell apartments. Whether the right market value will be determined remains a question. In Article 51, you stated that the Government prescribes a way of determining market value, and you stated that an exceptional unit of local self-government can establish the market value of land on its territory. Here, I must warn, there is a great possibility of corruption, of malfeasance. I'm afraid that land, especially in municipalities, will be sold at a price that is not adequate, so much lower than the one that is real. Also, the conversion of the right will be with charge and no charge. Who's going to determine whether it's going to be a charge or not? The question arises whether the government will gain power, whether local self-government units will be able to prevent corruption during land conversion? Agricultural land will be converted to building land automatically in some parts. It is normal that in the municipalities of Old Town, Sava Wreath, Vrachar agricultural land should not stand as it stands today, because it does not exist long ago. However, agricultural land is a limited resource and the question is whether it will be willing to protect agricultural land by means of a plan document, because it is necessary, we see that food is more expensive daily. Our agriculture needs to settle not only our needs, it can make a lot of money by exporting food. We cannot allow agricultural land to become more and more building land, we cannot allow everything to be converted into buildings, saltworks, and thus enable individuals to become enormously rich at the expense of the state, and to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia. What you have the support of the SRS is that building permits cannot wait, should not be issued without a plan, and plans must cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's the only way you can attract investors, whether they're domestic or foreign, because investors want to invest in something that's safe, behind which the state stands as a guarantee, something that gives them security, such as adequate, applicable and good laws. However, the government often shows its indifference and inability to do or arrange certain things in the best possible way. I will give an example, and this is mentioned several times today by the largest construction site in Serbia, in Vozdovac, in the area of the former barracks "Stepa Stepanovic". How is it possible that one firm, "Montera", could get such a job from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? How is it possible that the company owner, who was arrested several months ago for tax evasion, gets the biggest construction job in Serbia? Is it possible that out of so much company work, it's just the company that has people in charge who have been arrested for business malfeasances, for tax evasion, which in this way damaged both workers and the state, and took on a large material gain in a very fast and easy way? The owners are Dragan Kopčalic and Dejan Markovic, and despite the fact that they have hidden a large amount of money, they have no idea that they are paying their workers or that they are paying them contributions for the previous period. These executives, who don't think about their workers, who don't have a sense of conscience because of their difficult position, who don't care if they've ruined someone's lives, which they've cut off in crime, don't you, ministers, give jobs to people like that, do the government of the Republic of Serbia show confidence? Has anyone checked their business, their relationship with the workers, anyone wondered who is being trusted to do one of the biggest jobs in our country? The company also owes workers, in addition to its debt to the state, has unmistakable commitments to take over the construction company "Trubnik". The company "Trubnik" had 300 employees. The contract made a commitment not to fire workers for three years. Within a year and a half, 150 workers were fired without severance money, of which 45 strikers and all nine members of the strike board. Because of the public, Dragan Kopcalic was vice-president of the Municipality of Zvezda, on a proposal from the Democratic Party, and at the time he was president of the City Committee of the Democratic Party. Dejan Markovic is the brother of Dragoljub Markovic, the owner of the company "Krmivo Product" from Surcin, famous for numerous malversions. Instead of prison and years of imprisonment, the government is giving them one of the best jobs in Serbia. This kind of thing keeps our country going down, our companies go down, factories close down, workers stay on the street without a broken dinar. That's exactly why someone needs to finally answer and get in the way of things like this. Minister, you are required to answer why the Government of the Republic of Serbia approves and signs a contract with such a firm. As far as legalization is concerned, we talked about the price of legalization the last time. We think that the cost of legalisation is something that is priority, when it comes to the whole legalisation process and we said that legalisation must be cheap to implement in practice. We support all the discounts you've made under this bill. I just want to mention one thing about legalisation in the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has made a decision that legalisation can be paid for delayed, or 20 years, but has also made a decision that if legalisation is suddenly paid, a discount of up to 50% is approved. The decision was valid until December 31st last year. Then they changed the decision and extended the deadline until December 31st this year. I don't think that's good, because the whole legalization process is certainly not going to end this year. It is interesting what the city of Belgrade cited as the reason why the legalisation process did not end in the previous year. This is a decision proposed by the City Council in Belgrade, and adopted by the Belgrade City Assembly, where they say legalisation was not completed in Belgrade last year: "In view of the changed jurisdiction in legalisation procedures between the city and the city municipalities, the length of the handover of the case, the adoption of sublegal acts," and now it says, "unclearness in the law that conditioned the acquisition of various opinions... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So they, as one of the main reasons why legalisation has not been implemented in Belgrade, cite ambiguities in the law. It's just amazing, there are MPs from the DS, G17, the SPS, who, in power, praised this law as one of the best, which is extremely applicable, good, and committees from the same political parties across the street, in the City Assembly, say the law is unclear, inapplicable and that because of this law, complete legalisation in the city of Belgrade has stopped! It's just amazing that you guys don't have co-operation. Why is there no communication between the ministry and the city of Belgrade? Why didn't you explain these misunderstandings with them? The government of the Republic of Serbia must monitor in the coming period whether and how this law will apply, whether deadlines will be respected, in order to prevent corruption, particularly in the area of land-renamed land, in the area of legalisation, to control the pace of legalisation requirements, to further improve communication between the ministry and municipalities. The government, like you, Minister, should finally answer the following questions. The first question – how many legal requirements are submitted in the first place? We're talking about legalization, here's a year, two, three, and we still don't have the exact data on how many legal requirements there are. Is it possible that the Ministry can't contact all units of local self-government and get to the final collection, how many demands have been filed in the first place? Give us an answer to that question already. Give us an answer to the question how many requests have been processed so far? How much money was taken from legalization and what was that money spent in? Answer the question at last – why is the company “Montera” entrusted with the business of building apartments? Answer why there was no co-operation between your ministry and the city of Belgrade? Another question to ask you, you said you'd answer it in writing – where is the money from the housing fund? People have worked for a century, eventually they've run out of money and no flats. You promised me an answer, and I haven't got it yet. Here, for the end, once again, on the round table that we had the other day you said – there are over 600,000 submitted legalization requirements. You don't know the exact number. People, 600,000 demands for facilities. Three or four family members live in the facilities. Two million Serbian citizens are waiting to respond to what they have sent, it is a request for legalisation. Speed up the legalization process. More communication between you and the local self-government unit, two million citizens waiting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50855	Eleven minutes and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50856	Very short answers to your questions. Up to now, 792,000 facilities have been reported under all legalisation laws in Serbia. This does not mean that there are 792,000 illegally built objects, since some have applied several times, or in accordance with each law. You'll get the exact number when we talk about the amendments because all local self-governments had an obligation, in accordance with the law, to write and report illegal objects, and they did. Unfortunately, the quality of this material is not such that it can be published. In any case, how many illegal objects are in the process – the answer is 792,000. As far as co-operation with the city of Belgrade is concerned, she's great. Up until now, 17% of illegally built buildings have been legalised in Serbia, both under the 2003 law and by the 2009 law. When looking at the legalisation process of illegal facilities since the establishment of a secretariat in Belgrade, it is extremely low, but the problem is that under the old law, every object that has met all the conditions for legalisation is mostly legalised. The key problems why it is not legalised are the inability to obtain all the necessary documentation concerning urban acts, plans, or the basis for legalising and resolving property relations over building land, which we will address these amendments and additions to the Law. These two conditions are kind of being removed as an obstacle to legalization. As for the construction of the Stepa Stepanovic barracks, more than 30 large construction companies have received the job so far. We expect it to work between 40 and 50 construction companies. There are no Montera companies among them. She did give the most favourable price in the first procurement procedure, but since she did not meet the requirements under the law, the contract was terminated. I can tell you that all other companies that have met all the conditions under the law and won public procurement procedures by giving the lowest price already working. Speaking of which, and we've opened up the issue of applying the Law on aiding a construction operation in terms of the global economic crisis, I'd like to say that these days we've had the first concrete success, as far as achieving the best possible price. You criticised the law by claiming it would lead to rising, pumping prices and corruption. I think we've made the best possible model when it comes to contracting construction works. In all the cities where the negotiation process has been completed so far, we have achieved a lower price than it was in the prime and pre-calculation of the works, which was the basis for the bargaining. I can say that on the basis of the savings achieved by the Belgrade City Administration, we have saved money and that, apart from the projects that have been defined, among them the Mirievski boulevard, the Obrenovac bridge, some extremely important infrastructure projects and facilities, thanks to the savings of these days, we end the approval of the reconstruction project, i.e. the function of the Tash stadium. So, just thanks to this law, we've saved 200 million dinars, which we'll spend by reconstructing Tash. It is a law that has led to public procurement procedures being carried out at much cheaper prices than it is in the prime and pre-calculation of works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50857	The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, followed by MP Mico Rogovic, and then by MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50858	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, when we discussed this law in 2009, we MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia agreed with you on only one thing, that the need for the adoption of a new law is unquestionable and it is necessary for certain things to be arranged by law. You were then able to convince the ruling majority's MPs that the new law is something revolutionary, that it will bring improvements, that it will speed up the process, that it will allow new and clear rules to be created and that direct foreign investment is drawn in this way. Today we heard from you that foreign direct investment was not in this area due to the global economic crisis. You were obviously unaware in August 2009 that the global economic crisis had also knocked on Serbia's door. As for the new clear rules that need to regulate this area, I am free to say that they have caused a real earthquake in this country's legal order, in the functioning of local self-government, because of their application in practice. Today you said that after two years of application of this law, certain shortcomings, problems have arisen, which is why you are changing these provisions. You also said that your decision to amend and supplement instructions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was influenced by decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which declared certain provisions of this law unconstitutional, and we clearly drew your attention when we discussed the last time we discussed this law. Also, the reason for these changes and additions is to further speed up the process. So, you've reached a certain speed, so far you've gone third, and now you're probably trying to get into the sixth. Many colleagues talked about a list of Serbia and debated whether it was good to be in 173 or 176th or 181th place, or if we were first below the line. Can we be in one area in the first hundred countries in the world? To the table, we don't have to go to the top ten. I know it's hard to implement in a few years, but apart from corruption, we're certainly no closer to the top in any other area. You spoke today about the number of building permits issued. You yourself admitted that after six months of applying the Law in Belgrade, only one permit was issued; twenty-three permits in 2009. Today, there were stories that this law would allow thousands of square meters to be opened in the coming period. Well, more than a third, so over 300,000 square meters, there's only an object on the Vozdovac, in the barracks, in which the government should take the lead. The representatives of the Ministry claim in the media, and today we have had the opportunity to hear it, that this law does not correspond to those who bought some factories cheaply, fired workers and who want to build new apartments, business premises, malls and what they already have in store. Well, of course it doesn't suit them. You didn't make a law that would fit the tycoons, which in this way will make huge sums of money? We didn't get an answer to the law, whether they were citizens, whether they were units of local self-government throughout Serbia. Most of the talk here was about Belgrade, as if all life and all construction were to take place in the capital, without us living outside Belgrade and building, as if there were not successful construction firms that had significant results not only in the former Yugoslavia's area, but also in some foreign markets. I haven't heard the answer to the question why the Anti-Corruption Council is against this law. I have not heard the answer to the question of the consequences of producing provisions to allow local self-governments to give city building land below or free of charge. Is there a basis for corruption and malfeasance? We had the opportunity today to hear from the ruling majority MPs, who read a presentation done in the "Power Point" programme by your ministry and thus explained how good this law is, that it does not contain half solutions. I can agree with that if simple mathematics is applied and of the 223 members, as far as this law has, you only change 90, which is 40% of the law, not half of all members. It is really impossible in a short time to refer to all the provisions of these amendments and additions, to all 90 members, but I really don't understand how, for example, in Article 25, you foresee framework limits covering the plan document. What does “frameline” mean? When a plan document is brought, I think there should be clear limits. Don't make a plan document on a napkin, in a bar, in a pen. You're opening up the possibility that it's always interpreted either one way or another. Let's be specific once and know what some investment is planning, some construction and some development of local self-government. Article 70 shall be amended as provided for in Article 36. I really didn't see that. I am a graduate lawyer, but in one member on two pages, which reminds me of some minor referendum, in 15 positions in three points, you tried to explain something that was not clear to anyone. Well, if it was written in Chinese, it would be more understandable than this. Is this going to be interpreted when this law is applied? That's really inadmissible. I haven't had a chance to see this in the National Assembly, and I've been doing the work of a MP for seven years. Article 58 states – the investor can also access the building based on a final solution to the building permit and application of works, at his own risk and responsibility. In the following position: "If the party has initiated an administrative dispute and the investor does not, for that reason, start building an object to the legality of the solution, it has the right to compensation for damages and lost profits in accordance with the law, if the action is found to be unfounded. “ Do you think that the Constitutional Court of Serbia will not respond to such a provision, that this will not be lifted? This directly endangers the right of citizens to launch a administrative dispute. Is that a new reform of the judiciary? In Article 79, you wrote: “The facilities built, or reconstructed or built without a building permit in the second degree of protection of natural goods may be subject to legalisation if they are built before the adoption of the act on the placing of this natural goods under protection or are built from the funds of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, or the funds of a legal entity established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government. “ What is the state doing in this case? In this way you allow the state without permission to build such objects and legalize them. With all due respect, I trust colleague Obradovic, who is a construction engineer and who has worked on this issue far more than a specialist doctor and one lawyer, so I cannot believe your good intentions that in the coming period this law will produce significantly better results. And we don't know what's gonna happen next week. I can't talk about the amendments we submitted because I don't know if Minister Dulic will be the minister next week when we discuss the amendments or if someone else will sit in his seat. Since some colleagues have the need to end up with a famous sentence to support this law, the DSS parliamentary group simply must not and does not want to support such a law that contains anti-constitutional provisions and provisions that will make life difficult for all citizens and the functioning of local self-government in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50859	Eight minutes and twenty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Ljiljana Miladanovic, a folk MP, has the word, followed by a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50860	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and citizens of Serbia, has been just over 17 months since the Law on Planning and Construction, whose amendments and additions are under consideration. We have 90 members in front of us of the law on amendments and additions, which makes up 40% of the applicable law, more specifically, one recycled law, as a consequence of the new inconclusion of the ministry that proposes it. Besides, it's not surprising when those who honor us don't have a program and personnel for the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning name the famous orthopaedic. The question is raised which was the reason for such a quick adoption of the Law behind the cover of the Information Act, where were the expert public and the witnesses of the staff? Where was Serbia's Engineering Chamber when it only tries to patch up the law on this occasion? What consequences have such an unedited law caused? The common denominator for all answers to these questions is – general confusion. There are no building permits in the accelerated process, the property status issue of land is even more unclear, almost not legalized any facilities in the past construction period, hundreds of objects started without hints when it will be completed. A typical example is the "Metropol" hotel. All together results in general paralysis of planning and construction. On the basis of the facts, it is justified that the proposed amendments and additions of the Law could have been significantly improved by the Law. We believe that it is necessary to systemise all legal provisions in a way to pass a special law on building land, and the legalisation process of the facilities should be defined by a regulation, which would set deadlines for the completion of the procedure. It is unsustainable for this law to retain provisions that create the possibility of legalising illegal construction under special conditions. In the context of a general rationalisation of the scope of the state administration, the SNS proposes the abolition of the Republic Spatial Planning Agency, which would result in the erasure of all provisions in the third chapter of the law, with the future operations of the Agency being carried out by the Ministry. Serbia's engineering chamber and professional exams and licenses for responsible planners, urbanists, designers, contractors should be defined by a special regulation, and we think the provisions of chapters 9 and 10 should be deleted from the law. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law have even more burdened the overarching provisions of the Law that make it unclear and inapplicable. We therefore propose that the provisions of the law be more precise, and the adoption of sublegal acts would be further defined. Despite the proposed numerous amendments and additions to the Law, the promoter has made a number of failures. In the section Spatial and urban planning of the provisions of the law, the process of drawing up a detailed regulatory plan to conduct a public survey of all interested legal and natural persons, on the basis of which a general public and individual interest would be formed, which would be satisfied with the implementation of the draft plan. The provisions of the law should also set a deadline for the adoption of individual plans. It wouldn't happen, like now, if certain plans of detailed regulation were done for seven years, which so far was one of the basic causes of illegal construction. What has also been missed is the adoption of provisions of laws that would define the deadlines in which the plans are to be implemented. This results in a reduction in investor interest and construction. The amendments and additions to the Law have not been found to provide for a provision which provides for the possibility of the procedure of amending and supplementing the draft document in the event of a change in the circumstances of a wider public interest. In the chapters on the construction of buildings, building permits, construction and use of the law provision should be made on the basis of the categorisation of objects, according to the following criteria: purpose, size and equipment of objects. I believe it is not justified to present the same procedure in the construction of technical documentation, obtaining building and use permits and building investors of the most complex and simple objects. In the section of the Penal Code, the provisions of the law on fines are omitted by examples of the investment value of the objects in respect of which the offence or offence occurred. We believe that it is more appropriate to adopt the provisions of the law which would strengthen the instruments of prevention in violation of the law by increasing the scope of rights, obligations and authority of urban and construction inspection. Based on this debate in the principle of amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, we conclude that no qualitative improvement of the Law has been achieved. We believe that it is not possible to do so by submitting the amendments, but, as proposed, by adopting a new set of laws and regulations that would adequately regulate the matter of planning and construction. Although the importance of this law is great and the need for its adoption is expressed, we feel that the bill is not good. The Prescribing Club will not vote for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50861	The time spent since the parliamentary group's time is six minutes and fifty-five seconds. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. After him, MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50862	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here again. But he promised to listen, so later, when he got into the O.R., he'd answer these remarks. I'll act like he's here. First of all, I want to start with Mr Dulic's opening statement and to say that it was underestimating to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to us the MPs, because he acted and talked, explained as if we hadn't read the existing law and as if we hadn't read the proposal for amending and supplementing the law on the agenda today. In fact, two years ago, Mr. Dulic convinced us here for two or three days, as I recall, how great this law was and how it would be, I don't know what effects of applying this law, how all the negative things that existed in the previous laws would be solved. But it's been two years since the law was passed; he's telling us some fairy tales again. Now he says the law wasn't so good, but that the changes are more than phenomenal. They are, I guess, a real revelation and now all the problems of the citizens will be solved. And by the next year or the year after the election, we'll see how brilliant this government is and how brilliant the laws are passed. What Mr. Dulic had to tell us first, that's how this law turned out to be applied. One of the facts they're talking about is that the Constitutional Court has put some of the provisions of this law out of force. How could this happen if these experts were sitting in the government, if Mr. Dulic is such an expert, that's the real question. And the question is his responsibility, to see what is the responsibility of Minister Dulic for proposing to the National Assembly a law that has proved absolutely inadmissible. We know that practically no local self-government is capable of issuing a building permit. Perhaps this is the reason for the collapse of the construction industry, not what Minister Dulic said, among other things, in a global economic crisis. I want to ask him too – did his expertise or inexperience play any role in the fact that the law is inapplicable? Is this what we pointed to during his 2008 election, and in our opinion, it is his intricacies and the fact that his formal education and his previous career did not give him the right to accept such an important job as the Minister of Spatial Planning and Ecology? In the third year of office, Mr Dulic changes 90 members of the law, which is certainly the most important law, which he defended and proposed to this National Assembly. What are those changes? Far from being cosmetic. If you look at the stenograms of two years ago, you'd see that one part, unfortunately, just part, of our remarks is now in place. Instead of putting up with any responsibility, you keep talking some kind of fairy tale. Among other things, first Mr. Dulic said there was a construction operation, and then he said there was no city in Serbia where two or three construction sites were not opened. He would now have to agree with himself to say that the construction industry in Serbia is on a big take-off or on the verge of bankruptcy, which is why the state, he says, must find them some jobs and rescue them from it. How serious you were when you were preparing this law, I think it's best to say Article 78 in the amendment proposal. It refers to Article 185 of the basic law, within which you define the deadline for the right to reduce the compensation for legalisation on 31 June 2012. Jun, as should be known to Mirko Cvetkovic and Oliver Dulic, is a month that is 30 days old. But that's exactly the seriousness you're working with and accessing. Only if you didn't decide that maybe the government would pass some kind of regulation a day or two before June 30th, so that it would say that it would be extraordinary not to find out that the minister was wrong, this June the month is 31, and then some of the next ones could, for example, August, be 29. Of course, there's more of that nonsense, but let's move on to much more important questions. And when I passed the basic law, I made a number of objections, first of all, to that part of the law relating to the area of conversion. I also claimed that this would primarily be used by tycoons and explained it in a concrete way. Of course, Oliver Dulic is still there and now he owes me many answers. First of all, I want to know, and I think the National Assembly needs to know, how many legal entities, how many tycoons, how many companies, how many companies have used the possibility of conversion from right of use to property, based on previous law? How many acres, under what conditions, at what locations and at what prices? Let's see how many countries have benefited from this and whether it's true what Minister Dulic is trying to convince us, how, behold, my God, the tycoons are threatening Dulic because he's probably very dangerous and he's damaged a lot of them, and then they're threatening him, so it comes out three days on the cover of "Kurira", so we all have to feel sorry for saying, "Here, it's very good this minister, is that the law that he proposed is completely inapplicable, but here, you see, it's not only that they have damage to the citizens of Serbia, robbed and poor, but it's also causing damage to individual tycoons and owners of large capital, so they threaten him. Minister Dulic said the demand for a new space has fallen in the last two years. I have to tell him that the demand didn't drop because the demand is big, and it's obvious and the very price of squares tells him about how big the demand is, that the demand is smaller, then the price of squares would fall, but in fact, the purchasing power of citizens has fallen. It can't be an excuse for the global economic crisis, because we have absolutely nothing to do with the world's economic flows. If that's how Oliver Dulic claims... I would ask you to warn those persons sitting in front of you, Madam Vice President, that they behave politely, that they are not to laugh and that they do not interfere with speaking MPs. If this is due to the global economic crisis, the most logical question is why haven't the prices of squares dropped dramatically in Serbia's cities? How was it in a developed world, for which you have been running unsuccessfully for the last 12 years? If the price went down everywhere, then why didn't we have the price of squares? Look, since you are happy to compare yourself with the environment, which is the price of squares in the surrounding countries and those that are members of the EU, such as Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania, but look at a little Macedonia, for example, Montenegro and similar countries, compare it with the situation in Belgrade; then compare what is the relationship with the average wage, and see how much you can buy with the average salary for a year, and what is the situation in those other countries. As for concrete solutions in the law itself, I cannot agree with many things. You said that there were no adequate conversion experts, or that there were no adequate experts who could set the market price and that it was a problem, that the price was often too large, that the tycoons did not want to get into these jobs, they did not want to pay the price for conversion, so the state did not have any revenue from this. The facts are different. Of course, those people who robbed the Serbian economy, who bought below the price, do not want to pay the real price. They've been hunting in the dim past twenty years and when you tell them the real price they'd have to pay to make a conversion, it's normal that they wouldn't do it. So, if they wanted to pay a real price, they'd pay that real price for companies as well. What they want and what's their way of doing is paying the price significantly lower than the market, and that's why they've been waiting for their activities, because they're waiting for better times, waiting for some poorer assessment and a time when the state will be at a loss again, and they, of course, will win again. As for Article 103, there is a part where you say that tycoons, who have bought businesses at no cost, refuses the price they paid for these companies during the conversion. It's completely pointless, because the land price was never included in the purchase price. It would only make sense to say, "Here is what you have already paid for the land. We will reject you so much. This is something that has not been corrected compared to the first time and the adoption of the law two years ago, but it has worsened so much that you have now added that you will also pay other costs, including some others, they say, real costs, and this will be re-determined by the Government and it will be without any control of the National Assembly. In the next position of the same member, you say that the previous provisions, meaning, the possibility of a reduction, do not apply to persons who have acquired the right to use in the public advertising process, under market conditions, or have acquired property rights on the facility with the right to use. Now I ask you: what is the logic of punishing someone who, with a competition, is in the most correct way possible to buy something and say – you who bought it on the market have no right to reduce, and those who paid significantly less than they had to pay, they will have it? I really don't understand that logic. The last position, which the LDP and other ruling parties have taken into account, refers to Luka Belgrade; you are now trying to turn out to be some kind of protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, so I guess you are preventing that huge robbery. I will remind all of you who are members of the ruling majority, and the SPS, and the DS, and the G17, and the LDP and all others, that more than two years ago in the city of Belgrade in the City Assembly, the Survey Committee was established to examine the facts regarding the location of Luke Belgrade. We've been working several meetings, and then it's your political will, above all, for the LDP, whose head of the committee and chairman of the survey board, the polling committee cut off the work. We have scheduled and requested for dozens of times in writing, in accordance with the Statute of the Belgrade City Assembly, the follow-up and the next session of the Study Committee on Lucy Belgrade. When we saw that it didn't have anything to do with it, we asked for a report... In accordance with two decisions, it had to be put on the Parliament's agenda within 30 days, however, the ruling majority, in which DS, SPS, LDP, G17, did not forget them all, persistently refuses to put them on the agenda. The next member, 104, says those who have the right to use unbuilt building land will have to apply for conversion within 30 days and pay market value. I think this member is the most serious "candidate", of these members you are now putting in place, for some new decision by the Constitutional Court to be put outside the law. So, where's legal security here? This is a state racket. If someone in accordance with the existing law paid and got the right to use the land and determined a certain amount of money he raised, so he said - I'm going to build it, you can't tell him now - it's not enough anymore, now you have to pay the total amount, the market value of the land. Then people, or most of them, of course, won't be able to build. I hope that Mr. Dulic, as he has promised, will return, will answer these questions that I have now asked and that I will have the opportunity to address him later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50863	Thirteen minutes and fifty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Vlatko Ratkovic has the word, followed by MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50864	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, these ninety members of the bill on amendments and additions to the law on building land represent one qualitative shift, as far as the good system law on planning and construction is concerned. He, as we heard from Minister Dulic, is the result of one-and-a-half years of scans and monitoring the application of this law on the ground. There is no better verification and better public debate in the process of applying one law, especially the system law, than what those who apply it say. As we have seen, the novelties of this law are the result, among other things, of pointing to certain problems that have arisen in the application of this law, primarily from local urban and planning departments, municipal, or city authorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. These ninety members, in my opinion, represent, above all, procedural and procedural changes that allow for a better quality administrative procedure to be implemented throughout the process of exercising the right to build, therefore, at all stages, from making a decision to access the draft document, to issuing a useful permit. What needs to be pointed out is that these innovations eliminate a whole mass of evidence that is supplied to other bodies and organisations, ultimately implying the time needed to achieve this right in the construction process, both in terms of citizens as investors and in relation to companies, companies and the state itself. The law also sets out the rights and obligations of all participants in the procedures preceding the entry of property rights on a newly built facility. This, therefore, avoids the arbitration of the competent authorities. What is the quality of this law is to extend the right of the person to conversion without compensation, therefore, the conversion of the right to use into property rights. And there's a rule on the conversion procedure with compensation. These are all repairs concerning procedures, but at the same time they are material legal solutions. I would like to highlight another quality of these legal changes, which is the introduction of a private-public partnership institute. It is a model that exists in all developed European countries, even in the surrounding countries, and I would mark it as the beginning of a public-private partnership in a very important area, which is planning and building. One important institute has also been processed here, which is the Institute of Building Licences, that is its portability, that is, traffic, which otherwise exists under the basic text of the law. It envisioned, as we know, still predicts, that the building permit ceases to be valid if the investor does not bring the purpose, or finishes the facility within two years. However, there was a legal gap in the current regulation, in the current Law on Planning and Construction, and there was no answer to the question of what is going on with objects that are not finished, so what happens to those objects that we figuratively call "Skadar on Bojana". There was double damage: firstly, non-solid investors did not pay certain tax revenues; in most cases they sold such facilities, mostly apartments, security, third parties and several times. The proposed changes address this legal situation and legal gap by destimulating a non-solid investor on the immovable market to start an investment without the funds provided for its implementation and allowing for the completion of unrealised investments and the achievement of tax revenue or tax revenue charges that are not realised due to unrealised investments. Therefore, the importance of planning, construction, supervision, inspection of the application of this law is improved compared to the basic text of this system law. If we look at the quantum, these ninety members may look a lot, but systematically, the Law on Planning and Construction in its essence and in its spirit does not change; certain procedures are being repaired and certain legal gaps are being solved. Also, I think it's an important thing in this law to specify the cut date when agricultural land is re-purposed into building land. This dilemma has been removed by this law. Of course, my predecessors spoke about the legal issue, and I wouldn't talk about it. I consider this moderation and methodology much better, and therefore the Democratic Party supports amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, as the Ministry has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50865	Five minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dragan Zivkov, and after him by Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my predecessors from my party have already talked about the lack of planning laws and 2009, and this year, when it comes to supplementing this law. We believe that the Law on Planning and Construction did not achieve the effect the minister was talking about in 2009. Of course, we cannot believe that there will be any improvement in construction operations and construction industry, which should have been helped by this law, namely the improvement and prosperity of construction in our country. This law can be divided into multiple points. Basicly and elementally, as my predecessor from the Democratic Party also said, that, in chapter VII, the analysis of the effects of the law is inadmissible to allow some of the objects to be built in the previous law, and without legal basis and without any certainty, to remain as monuments in the state; even those who existed earlier have not been solved, and new ones have been produced. I ask the question, in the meantime, from 2009 to today, how many such objects were created in the state, if you can answer me, Minister? The objectives of this law are set here at four points: simplifying administrative procedure; clarifying the rights and obligations of all participants in the procedures preceding the entry of property rights on a newly built facility; expanding the circle of persons who can exercise the right to conversion, which has been talked about today. There was a dilemma now, given that the parliamentary groups here talked about the diversity of conversion and the right to conversion, when they would be entitled to an investor, i.e. A creditor to take the building land without compensation or with compensation? As I understand it, the minister said in his presentation – if the facility that is on the building land, which is rented, crosses the market value of the plot, the conversion is free of charge. By which criteria and how the price of building land will be determined when construction land is not the same in various situations, i.e. various natural conditions. It's a very complicated thing. In what way will this law bring justice? It was mentioned here that at the outset, when an investor comes into a local self-government and needs to go into investment, he must first appear in a cataster to extract a copy of the plan of building land or agricultural land to turn it into building land. The State Administration for the Catastre is mostly with local self-government "subsistent" in municipalities; it is actually a practice, not paying for local self-government, but it is there, there is a monopoly... The copies of the plan in some local self-government arrive quickly, and some of them are very complicated; everything depends on the administration that is there, or on the human factor that works, I mean the counter workers and, of course, on how the catastre behaves in local self-government. I can only tell you that copies of the plan in Vojvodina, on many of our projects, where investments have been made, have existed since ancient times. Our state should take a stand and pass such laws that will last for decades, even hundreds of years, and not change each year, or some solutions, when necessary, only then do we adopt an amendment and an amendment to the law. I can tell you, for example, when the main platoon for the Banatski Dvor was built, the gasification, on the orans where the flow passed, or where the pipes were placed, in certain positions the pipes and cascades were placed five and ten meters below the ground, because there was once a channel drawn by the plan, and it was never set up, nor dug. Why are such situations happening, and why hasn't it changed in the beginning? In order for the law to have the right essence and to last a long time, it has to start over. What is done, making decisions, acts, etc., is not permanent. I was talking about conversion. Legalisation is a difficult issue, about which local self-governments fight battle with their citizens, i.e. citizens with local self-government. In most local self-governments, illegally built houses, which have received infrastructure, have both electricity and telephone and plumbing, even sewerage and everything else, with allegedly not legalized and not using a license. The question arises, the conflict is now between citizens, those who paid, as counterpart Dragan Stevanovic explained on his case, who regularly paid all taxes, and these citizens who are second or third social categories, with low incomes, who at the time could and probably decided to build facilities in such districts... And even today, I can't legalize, as you say, ground zeros, up to 100 squares, because they're for certain papers that they need to legalize overpriced taxes. When you collect all the papers and documents that citizens need to legalize the facility, of course, in today's days, in poverty and when they're out of work, they can't provide documentation, let alone legalize the facility. As you said, Minister, you've committed a certain deadline for local self-government to come up with regulation plans. That's how it's done in my community. The city of Vienna's regulatory plan, where I come from, has been adopted and the zones have been fixed; even in this regulatory plan it has been inserted that Vienna should become a Banian city in the future. On this case, we can see that everything works the other way around. The prerequisite for Vienna to become a Banish city is what it is. Vienna is a agricultural place, there are facilities, households that deal with agriculture, there are mini farms without permits, there are certain workshops, there are companies, there are pollutions, and it does not match the environmental plan of the Banjska city. How is the city of Vienna going to emerge from this problem now, and it has already come to a regulatory plan, only because of the Ministry's pressure? In your presentation, Minister, you said at first that many municipalities had not yet brought it. Of course they didn't, because the regulation plan is a serious job for many local self-government. At first, I touched construction operations, which was supposed to come back to life, despite this law, and we brought here the Law on aiding construction operations and the construction industry. I don't think this addition to the basic Law on Planning and Construction is going to help the builders much, because they've been in a catastrophic situation for years. This year is even more difficult as regards the conditions for construction work, except that you said in your presentation that this is perspective by mentioning the case “4. July" or this big apartment complex you mentioned at the beginning. In the case of investors, and as far as local self-government is concerned, I think it would be far better if the first building land was given to local self-government, and only then was it determined, because local self-government knows best where, in which zone and what part of building land would be the most ideal for investors. On many examples, you have tried to explain to us, such as the Indji municipality – how it made an industrial zone, how investors entered, etc. Now you represent it with the Jagodina municipality. I believe these two municipalities are just a drop in the sea compared to the rest of Serbia. Other municipalities are in a much worse situation and cannot attract such investors as Indji is attracted to Belgrade because it is close to the highway, corridors, etc. Not to talk about building land next to corridors and highways, which were set up for sale, they took certain people with cheap leases knowing that the corridor would pass that way and that ten times or maybe more would make a square meter. This is inadmissible and the state would have to take care of, to protect itself, to protect its citizens and investors who, with sincere intentions, want to come into our country and invest. With its amendments, the SRS will try to fix this amendment to the law. We're not voting for the law because even the basic law hasn't produced positive reactions, based on all these problems I've mentioned. I hope that in the voting day you will at least vote for our amendments, which we have submitted to improve the addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50867	Twelve minutes and ten seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a very important bill. Why he's important, tells us the fact of urban and construction chaos in practice. No city, no village, no community where there's no illegal construction. Irregular construction is not only the result of this time, but it passes in a little longer time. We should all be concerned about the situation we're in, especially the legislators. Here, since a new set came in on October 5th, she has promised, among other things, to stop lawless construction and regulate all those procedures that were under way and new procedures and to end the legalisation process. I'm deliberately saying the process, because when we talk about legalisation, then we need to know what legal terminology means, in a legal sense, legalization. There's no legalization of the procedure. There's only legalization, the law of certain acts, documents. That's why you, of the government, of the Ministry, and everyone else who uses this term, must apply the legal practice and legal rules of this country, but also the legal rules of international law, because this is, among other things, the legal rule of international law. When we talk about problems, we have to say another reason why we have this number of illegally built objects. The state of Serbia does not have a strategy to edit space. The first task of every government, every serious authority that wants to move into a particular area, is a strategy. The space strategy is your government's first task. Unfortunately, no one's talking about it. No serious project has been made, in terms of editing space. It's especially important from the point of view of the state, not to say it's less to local self-government, which must also have its own strategy. So far, the practice of law enforcement, which has started, you said, reform 2003, is very bad. It's bad from one aspect, which is that you've tried to unite several continents with one legal regulation, more legal continents. Thus, by the Law on the Construction of Objects in 2003, you united legal regulations from the area of building land, construction, legalisation, property, work and procedures of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, etc. It's all broken down into one law and all you're doing right now is pulling out the mud that you're breaking into because of that law. Correction was made in 2006, 2009, and here, and now you're making adjustments. It is inappropriate, because of the situation in which we are located, to change almost half of the 2009 Law and then to say the following, here, I will try to read the reasons for the law being passed, it is on the side of 35 of our material, you say this: “Departing from the general assessment mentioned and from the results of the previous analysis of the law... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Nothing caused, you say, "from the general assessment mentioned," and nowhere in the text until then is the general assessment. I don't know how you got that, general. Who came to that general? Did the generals judge anything, so now the general's score? I don't know how you got that general evaluation, and who did? You say: “... The results of previous law analysis... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Who did the law analysis? When was she done? Is this parliament supposed to get an analysis of the law? We're also doing a law analysis through this discussion. These changes are an analysis of the problems in the application of previous laws, it's a real analysis, but you from the Ministry had to come out here to explain the real situation and our practice. It is a mild horror that we have in the application of this law, because many of the legal institutes you inaugurated in practice are almost inadmissible. We talked about conversion, we'll just say what your Ministry said. It's 1,500 requests filed, but it's solved two. At all the bells there were stories about how we're going to do this, like, and so on. As for legalisation, the data again from your ministry – from one to five percent of the resolved requirements. What does that mean? Where are those analyses you had to run here now? The real analysis must be found here and, in an explanation, in the reasons for law-making, give us that analysis. Minister, when you held a public hearing, you said it was appropriate to review the application of the law, which is very important, and we need to keep examining ourselves, to see where the shortcomings are, where the problems are, and to discuss these problems and to look for a solution, but it does not seem to be the fact that the problems in legalization are wrong for local self-government and catastra. That doesn't stand. If it's up to anyone to finish legalisation, it's local self-government, to collect that money, and to spend it, to give the current power to waste it, as it normally does in procuring practice. When you talk about a disaster, you are directly responsible for this condition. You called yourself. Here we spoke, the Serbian Radical Party told you here – do not touch the cadastre, not guilty. You've done a lot of work for him, you've made a lot of commitments for them. The only state body to strike in the state, and strike for days, was a disaster. Why? Because, in addition to a huge number of jobs that they have received and a very difficult situation: not enough space, not enough technical equipment, not enough professional literature, not enough training of professional workers in the areas you have added to them, nothing the state has done, particularly in your ministry, to help these people. They strike, they ask that the number of workers you planned to fire be reduced, that they be reduced to those frameworks as well as in all other state bodies, to provide them with adequate resources. More has helped local self-government; I mention Novi Sad, who has made the shift aware of the fact that there is no state and that the competent ministry and government have not done everything they need to do. The second thing, in your presentation on the bill of amendments and additions to this law, you said that local self-governments understood legalization as a form of robbery. That's right, the local self-government was setting itself up just because they had such legal regulations. Because your people in local self-government, the largest number of local self-government presidents has the Democratic Party, they advocated that story – finish legalization, pick up etc. In 2003, when it was that Shumartz law, they said – a billion euros will be collected from legalisation. Those poor people don't talk about where those funds are going to be invested. Well, it doesn't add up, it's not tax, it's not extraordinary, it's forced collection of certain taxes, it's giving to the state to build and equip municipal infrastructure. It's an obligation. So when it comes to a billion euros collected from legalization, then we're talking about, as a countermeasure, how much water you're going to build, sewers, roads, etc., everything that's a communal infrastructure. But when we talk about construction, why is there no legalization? Well, it's not because you didn't define it the right way. When you talk about the compensation for the construction land, it is not defined what constitutes a compensation for the construction land. So that's all the other problems we're talking about. No one understood, I'm telling you, the essence of that problem. What's local self-government doing to you? What kind of contracts does he sign? You don't control those contracts. You're smiling, but you have to understand the essence, that this concerns every third man in this country, because one third of the illegal objects, of all the objects that exist in the Republic of Serbia. You have not defined the fee, you have not defined the two-sided legal work resulting from the commitment contract. Local self-government prescribes criteria and criteria for giving, but does not define the other side, the obligation of the state, or local self-government to build a municipal infrastructure for which it receives funds. Just because you don't go out in the field, because you don't control local self-government, because your building inspectors don't have such orders we have these problems. If you read the provision of Article 93(5), that is essential. ‘The investor and unit of local self-government, i.e. a company, public undertaking or other organisation of Article 91 of this Act shall conclude a contract governing mutual relations with regard to the regulation of construction land, establishing the amount of compensation for the construction land, payment dynamics, scope, structure and deadlines for the execution of works... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Please, Minister, how many contracts have you checked between local self-government and investors and where did you see in the contract to write – payment, volume, structure and deadlines for performing the works? You don't have any contract. That's tragic. There's no respect for the law, and that's why there's no legalization. When I was preparing to discuss this issue, I took advantage of the knowledge of my colleague who deals with this problem, which is Slobodan Vladisavljevic. Mrs. Aleksandra Damjanović Petrovic knows him, given that they were in direct contact. The man deals with this problem, he is the lawyer of the Lege Artis Association. He's made it clear to you, and he's been telling you for years what needs to be done. In a letter that I delivered to the parliamentary groups, even shared to the media, there are clear rules, you can't do this; his position, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is – you can't legalise this law. Drag this, legalisation must be resolved by lex specialis law, where investor obligations will be established, clearly established, with deadlines and obligations of local self-government with the precise scope, structure and deadlines of performance of works. Without it, it's not working. Get on the ground, record the facilities, as it was done in 1998, to come up with a legalization solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50869	Twelve minutes and fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50870	Thank you. A few questions have been opened in the debate so far, and I thought it was time to clarify some of the ambiguities. First of all, thank you for trying to define where all the problems are. They exist, Serbia is full of problems. Construction and urbanism, like two highly derelict areas in Serbia, are in trouble many years ago. Unfortunately, the construction sector, in terms of a construction operation, is in one major crisis, which has been caused primarily by the global economic crisis and shares the fate of a construction operation throughout Europe. In some countries 70% of the construction operation activity has dropped, we are talking about developed EU countries. The crisis has also affected all Western Balkan countries. In the last year alone, five million people in the construction sector in Europe were out of work. Unfortunately, it's between 20,000 and 40,000 in our country. The Law on Planning and Construction, which was adopted in 2009, could not contribute because its implementation only started in 2010, the permits were issued under the old law, but there was no longer a demand for construction activities, there was no demand for building permits. We didn't use that time for nothing. What I have to say, happiness in this great accident, which is called the global economic crisis, is that we have entered into the deep reform of this sector and that we have made huge shifts that when the crisis goes through the construction sector, it can go through extremely fast procedures and, I'm sure, in a much more orderly system than it was before 2008 to start working and working. When I say that, it's not optimism without cover, it's simply adding up some of the facts that I'm going to bring out right now. The law passed in 2009 brought several historic things to Serbia. I think there will be two key things left, which will certainly remain remembered when the mandate of this government passes. First, after 60 years, we introduced private property over construction land. In order for the privatisation of building land to take place, that huge resource that each state has put in full shape regarding the use itself and to change its own relationship, it is necessary to have certain procedures happen; we have called it the conversion of the right to use once state land in private property. Millions of people will gain a significant profit from the conversion. Today, every citizen living in a house or apartment has the right to convert and become the owner of the land under its property. That's what tens of thousands of people used as their right during this year. Thanks to the changes and additions of this law, it will go according to automation. So the municipalities will deliver everything that is necessary data, the catastres will do their part of the job, the conversion of the right of use into property rights without compensation will go for automation. When you ask if the conversion worked, I say – yes, it is because anyone who wanted to build had to acquire property over the land, it could have done so in the conversion process. At first, there was a time for them to follow the procedure. Today it is a process that lasts relatively briefly and can be completed relatively quickly. Now we're going to delete it, there's not going to be a process and there's going to be a process, it's going to be done automatically. The second big thing that we have done, which is historic, is that we have finally introduced into Serbia the obligation of local self-government to bring in two key plans: the first spatial plan of local self-government and the second one is a regulatory plan, which will have sufficient level of regulation that you can enter into the process of issuing a building permit without excessively long waiting to meet the conditions so far sought. I am not saying that everyone has done their part of the work within the deadlines prescribed and that everyone is at a pace to ensure that by September of the year or until March of next year all municipalities have a spatial and regulatory plan, but that they will all be in the stages of the process, with one clear timetable when Serbia will finally be covered by spatial and urban acts. It's a historic thing. When we started doing this job, only 20% of Serbia was covered by these plans. You mentioned a cadastre. Today I wanted to take the opportunity to show you how much that stuff got started. Even though citizens have mostly a picture of the cataster as narrow counters in overcrowded rooms in which they have been waiting for services for a very long time, the stalemate of immovableity has begun to reform and in the last two years the reform has intensified. Today, for the first time in its history, Serbia can boast that it has almost created a catastrophe of immobility throughout its territory. On this map of Serbia, when you look at the blue color, there is a catastrophe of immovableity. For the first time in history in some areas, there is a clear relationship between objects in space and property records of these objects, land and everything else. It's a huge job and it's a job that's been done for the past two years. All these other red parts of Serbia are procedures that are being conducted at the moment. By the end of this year, Serbia will have a full record of its own and an immobility cadastre. Let me just tell you how far behind we are: for example, after the Austrian occupation in six years, BiH has done this job, of course, in accordance with modern technologies that were then valid; which, even a few years after that, we were unable to finish this job, for decades this job has been ignored. We'll be able to finish it. When it's over, waiting in line for a cadastre, getting a copy, solving property relations, for all the problems that involved proving property over land and objects will be the past. What's a good thing is that all of this is going to be shown and realized in digital form. Serbia is a country that has never had any real estate records on several percentages of its territory and where the traffic of real estate was done by handling people without the state recording it anywhere. So, from a very bad starting position today, we've come into a situation to finish a huge job. I told you here three things that this law has brought: it has brought property over building land, it has introduced private property over building land, it has launched a process of covering Serbia with plan and urban acts, and, thirdly, we have managed to launch the matter from a dead spot – in many municipalities we will soon have solved the catastrophe of immobilities. He has made progress in many areas where a process for issuing permits has been accelerated, but everywhere there is no spatial plan, where there are no regulatory plans, where there are no resolved property records, where there is slow, trom, inefficient administration, there are problems to issue building permits. We waited to see where there were newly created bottlenecks, which were all newly formed narrow throats, which were the narrow throats that otherwise existed, which we failed to remove by law, to suggest changes and additions. By amending and supplementing this law, we do not say that the 2009 Law was bad, we just wanted those points that were poorly interpreted at levels where the law is being implemented to grow in a clearer way and to erase any kind of opportunity for arbitration, slowdown, abuse in these procedures. That's what we've done with these changes and supplements. We have not given up any of the reform processes that we started with the 2009 Law. There is a conversion with a fee, which will have to be paid, but according to procedures that need to be speeded up. There is still a reduction in the procedures for issuing building permits. We have now tried to improve this by explaining many things where our lives have been unnecessarily complicated for our citizens and investors. We've done all we can to get the construction contractor, so that the construction operation can exit immediately to the site, that from the moment the location permit is issued as soon as possible, the machinery can move, and the workers can go to the site. So, we've done everything we need to do. Now we explain it and fix it, and I'm sure after this law is passed, the situation will be much better. We worked on all the accompanying sublegal acts that should put the law in full function during this month or early next month. This construction season will, I'm sure, be marked by many good construction projects, which will be able to begin quickly because of changes and additions to this law. In order not to sit by and watch our construction operation fail and disappear, as people remain out of work, the state had to engage and become the biggest investor. Today, the state of Serbia is the largest investor in Serbia's construction sector. We did it through three major projects. The first project is building buildings in almost all Serbian cities. A total of 245 major construction sites will be opened during this year, where half of the money is provided by the state of Serbia, half of the local self-government. The projects were selected according to priorities that local self-government itself recognized as important. What is most important, not only will we hire a local construction operation on these projects, but we will significantly improve the lives of citizens there. If you don't believe me, ask the people of Obrenovac what the bridge will mean to them across the Sava, who have waited for decades. Ask people in Babusnica what will mean to them sports complex with an open swimming pool, waiting to improve tourism; or in Sokobanja, or closed pool in Piroth, or hospital in Vranj, Clinical Centre in Novi Sad. A bunch of infrastructures, like collectors, sewers, travel networks, everything local self-government has asked to do to them, a huge number of homes of culture, sports halls, schools, kindergartens that were once started, never finished, we will end this project thanks to it. It's a whole new project, which we managed in just six months to close, to start working, to work. When you ask what the effect of the Law on aiding a construction operation is, this is exactly what it is. We managed to launch three huge projects, with a few dozen and hundreds of construction projects, thanks to the law. What's very interesting is what I'm going to say, when the municipalities are highly motivated to issue a quick building permit, they do. The construction license period for these 245 buildings was several months. No one can say that the law is wrong, when a municipality can give itself permission quickly, and some investor has a problem and has been waiting months to get the same license, at the same location, under the same conditions. The same goes for the state. As a ministry, we issued all construction permits for the Stepa Stepanovic project within months. Is someone trying to tell me the law is wrong? No, but there's a high motivation to issue a permit, and when it's gone, and unfortunately, it's very often gone when it comes to private investors, then it's looking for more paper, then it's complicated procedure, then life gets bitter, unfortunately, many times, for exactly the worst possible reason, which is that it's possible to earn some money and to ask for bribes. It's these changes and additions that we want to set up the system so that, regardless of the low motivation we can expect, the permit has to be issued quickly and some deadlines have to be respected. That's what changes and additions of this law are for, among other things. Another major construction project where the state investor is the settlement "Stepa Stepanovic". Thirty or forty years of construction operations in the former Yugoslavia and Serbia did not build such a large project as "Stepa Stepanovic". We'll be building 130 large housing buildings at some point. This year you will have a huge number of cranes and an almost full-time employee on the project. Ask those builders if they'd survived this year if it wasn't for this project alone, and not for these other projects. So we managed to save them. In doing so, we agreed on the price of building squares, which has been the lowest since the state agreed with privates, thanks to the Law on Aiding Construction Operations, where we invited all relevant companies and allowed them to lower the price to come to a price that is extremely favourable today, between 350 and 400 euros per gross meter of square living space, the key in their hands. Tell me, where is it? We have done it, it will be extremely quality apartments, which are built at the lowest possible price. The third major project where the state invests in its construction operation is social housing, which will be built in twenty cities. With these three major projects this year, construction operations will be almost fully employed, and the production of construction materials will work full steam. Be sure of that. The state doesn't need to be the biggest investor. She can do it and she only has to do it when there's a crisis. We would like 2012, 2013, 2014 to be the biggest investor in the private sector, while the state is slowly withdrawing. The state should create a regulation that is good, that creates conditions and an economic environment for investment in construction, but it should not be an investor, we stand firm behind it; not to say, some other low-building projects that are being done, construction of roads, bridges, etc. In the end, you mentioned the matter of conversion with compensation. Questions were asked how many were there. A few thousand demands have been submitted. We expect that there will be between two and three thousand conversions with compensation. So far, a few have been completed. The reasons are also known because the reasons, the identified problems, have been identified, we have proposed concrete solutions. All cities that want to donate their surface and allow for a very fast assessment of the market value of a square meter of building land. It's a solution the cities have accepted, so they can do it to solve this problem. In this way, for the next construction season, and hopefully for this one, one significant resource of building land will be released on which to build. There's been a lot of talk about legalization, and there's been a lot of talk. There's no fair legalization, there's no fair legalization, there's no legalization in which everyone's gonna get what they want. There is only effective or inefficient legalization. All the legalizations so far have fallen into two things: the first was the inability to get all the necessary papers to complete the legalisation, the second was the lack of financial resources among those who needed to legalise. We made a model that has to work. At the door of families living in illegal facilities will be nailed by someone from the municipality, offered paper to sign a contract with the municipality, on their behalf will collect all necessary documents and this will cost citizens a month between a few tenths and several hundred dinars. Is there a better thing than that? I don't know, and I can't imagine there's a better thing than that. Of course, that's what's going to happen when we get organized, and if we're going to organize, I can say on behalf of the Ministry, we're already organized. Whether local self-government will be organised will depend precisely on local pressure on local self-government to organise. For some cities, I am sure that it will be organised and I am sure that Belgrade, as the largest city, with nearly 220,000 illegal facilities, will manage to organise and do the job well. This year will be the year in which people will feel that the state has come to their door and is helping them solve their problems. It won't be free, but it will be at the best possible prices by now. The most important thing after that is that it never happens again that wild construction is booming at this percentage as much as it has ever been. How do you do that? We, as the Ministry, fight as much as we can and constantly tear down lawlessly built objects, file criminal charges and monitor the course of court proceedings, doing a kind of institutional pressure on the judiciary to complete these proceedings. That's what local self-government does. In implementing this law, introducing order into Serbia requires a lot of personal courage, taking risks. You need to be unpopular. It takes you sometimes to agree to be exposed to various attacks, because this is about a matter with so much crime, corruption, dirty money, huge problems and irregularities. We agreed to do it. It will wait for anyone who wants to bring order to Serbia. We're doing it now, and I think we're doing it in the best possible way right now by proposing changes and additions to this law today. I am sure that after these changes and additions, we will have a law that will be the best possible under the circumstances we have in Serbia today. I call upon you to support him, I call upon you to assist us in the implementation, implementation of this law. Rest assured, it is to the benefit of all, regardless of our political differences. This is the law that's being made for the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50871	The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radet, and it is the last on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50872	You could have, Minister, been able to close this setup six minutes ago, because that's when the transmission stopped. Indeed, it is clear why you took the last speaker before, but, for God's sake, we will also discuss details. Your morning debate, which you have now absolutely repeated, is quite inspiring, but the problem is, Minister, which is absolutely identical to what you were saying here in 2009. I don't know if you slept or were in Switzerland in the meantime, so you talk to us about building plans and building plans, about legalisation, which is certainly not the problem, as if you live in Switzerland, not in the country of Serbia. And then, in 2009, you said this was an important system law. You said that again this morning and today. And then you said that this law does not give up the reform course and repair of the situation in this area. And then and now you say that the conversion will end very quickly, to some universal well-being. And then and now you said that legalization would end in a very short time. Minister, 17 months have passed since all your promises. The results are zero, Mr. Dulic. When we talked a few months ago about correcting this law and when I told you that this law was not applied you were angry, you seemed offended. Can you now deny Serbian Radical Party MPs? In your reasons for adopting this law, you say, among other things: “In the process of reviewing the Law, it has been estimated that some solutions need to be more precisely defined, in line with the views of the courts. “ What does this mean, Minister? What does this mean? I guess there's a law to be applied by courts, huh? I don't know what you're harmonising this law with. The problem is that the Law on Planning and Construction, which we told you back then, is absolutely inapplicable, an absolute source of corruption in state bodies, in the bodies of local self-government, all the way to the local community. That's what we're telling you today and you're not listening to us again. We don't know why you insist on something that isn't applicable and that won't bring any results. You're saying by changing this law you don't admit that the basic law isn't good. What do we care what you confess or don't admit? You with ninety members are changing the law of 200 members. Convince someone that you're not aware yourself that it's a very bad law. You've brought out a lot of data here. Praise what you've all started to build, how many non-profit apartments, how many social etc. We were concerned that we would be praised by the people as much as you would build apartments. It's just amazing. Here's your data, Mr. Minister: 19000 was built in 2007, in 19800, 2009 in 2,500, 2010 in 1,800. You're talking, I see you're being rude, and you're going to say again that it's probably because of the world's economic crisis. Question for you, Mr. Minister: can the global economic crisis affect the development of a general plan, regulation plans, building plans? He can't. Why didn't you do it? Oliver Dulic, from the scene: It's done. It's done? Who knows what else to do. You're expected to finish. Well, you're not finished, Minister. Call back later. I hope Mrs. Comic lets us have a little chat. The two of us always have good communication, not just from the point of view of the opposition party, but from the aspect of someone who has this matter, you have to admit, he really knows. It would have been good if you'd appreciated what I told you back then. Remember when we talked about the conversion in 2009, when I told you you could get locked up because of how you regulated that matter? You did not believe, or they persuaded you not to believe. It was pretty convincing of you what I told you. What do we have now? One of my colleagues said, several days ago, they're writing on the front page – threatening Minister Dulic. Why are they threatening Minister Dulic? If they threaten you, Minister, because you insist on applying the law, then you have our support and we will publicly call anyone who threatens you. In any case, we will call anyone who threatens anyone because it is inadmissible, it should be inadmissible in the state of Serbia. Minister, if you are threatened for any other reason, you may have the right not to sleep peacefully. Don't get this the wrong way, God forbid, as some kind of invitation that someone has the right to threaten you. Of course, anyone who is not sure or who is aware of not applying the law in the right way should not sleep peacefully just because of the law’s organs eventually. This is nothing personal, of course. I believe you're an honest man, but the question is, if you've allowed conversion in that way, so now to this one, first answer how you're going to get... Let go of this free conversion, that you live in a building or that I live in a building so I can own a hundred thousandths of the land under the building, that's not interesting. The question is, you didn't talk about it at all, we talked about it 17 months ago, what about huge surfaces where tycoons and various controversial businessmen bought a factory? I mentioned an example of a factory that has 200 m2 and is on a plot of nine acres. How is that going to be regulated? How are you gonna make them pay? You can't force them because last time you didn't accept our amendment to place such land, which is not necessary for that facility, on auction. Thus, the law guards it, you passed the law, and various tycoons who built hotels and megamarkets at the factory site enjoy it, and the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens pay for developing their own business. You're saying that building in Belgrade, as you said, I've recorded everything you said, that it's a mistake that this law stopped a construction operation, but you didn't convince us that it wasn't, you didn't tell us what you were building. You say it's built in Belgrade. They're still building so-called. Wild objects, Minister. You send an inspector... Last time I told you about some examples from Zemun, and today I'm going to give you some examples from Zemun, that we understand each other, not because in Zemun there are advances, they're not a topic for us, they're a topic for the public prosecutor, for the law enforcement authorities on many grounds, but because I'm a people's ambassador who lives in Zemun, I communicate with people, I pass and I see. A facility is being built on Zemun Factory Street. They say Zemunci owns that facility, a friend of Vucic's, Peconi. There's a man behind the building where he's now walled up the house, and his family's been torn down by a house, and nothing. Your inspector goes, as he went where that wall is on Gardening Street, he finds that the license was issued in the municipality of Zemun, but not adamant to see the papers that preceded the issue of the permit. Send them back to see. We've done our best, Mr. Minister. We have people working there, who showed us what your inspectors didn't want to see. You're talking about legalization, 99 or I don't know how much. First you said that legalization would be completely free, so then your assistant on TV is denying you, says – Mr. Dulic doesn't understand, he's not a lawyer, I'm a lawyer. That's how you operate in the government, State Secretarys and Assistants running politics and destroying some ministers, etc., it's nothing new, but that's your problem. Now you're saying it's not going to be 100%, it's going to be a 99% reduction, and then you're talking about some zones, so the question is how are you going to legalize, at what cost? You've already regulated it, obviously. How is all the houses, for example, going to Vračar, Savavac and Old Town in Belgrade? There are also poor people and barely locked houses, and they've been built for years, but they're in that extra zone and there's no discount. Is that fair? It's not. Here, while one of my colleagues was speaking, I received a message from Cicicec, they say – ask the minister how we will legalise houses that were built 60 or 70 years ago. He has no idea, Minister. Actually, he doesn't know the law. Minister, as you brutally rob Serbian citizens through legalization, I ask you to listen carefully to this and ask an assistant lawyer, if she has not noticed by herself so far, to check and when we talk about amendments to explain how the case of a family who legalized the facility three years ago will be resolved with the Payment Order, about 36 wars. So three years have passed. The first war was four thousand dinars, 36th or 37th was 6,500 dinars. What's that difference and what made that difference? The rest... Now, listen, don't frown, dear lady, but listen to the minister, who's not a lawyer, like you said, so he doesn't know, and he doesn't understand, that's what you said, I never told him he didn't know because I appreciate him, say it. That same family, who has 20 wars left to pay... When calculated, the twenty wars amount to, or total debt is about 50,000 unpaid; when it turns into these wars that grow every month, provided they no longer grow, that is 130,000 dinars. People, of course, don't have 50,000 dinars to pay for it, but they're going to pay another 130,000 dinars. That's how you brutally rob Serbian citizens. Nothing will change in this law that we're talking about today, because nothing fundamental, Minister, has changed here. You can talk as much as you want. Unfortunately, I don't know how much time I have left, but it's certainly impossible to tell everything I want, what are the objections. You've changed the wording in this law. For example, you've changed what the construction area is. The building area is no longer defined by the planning document. So what is it, Minister? Tarab? What's the area of construction? So you changed the formation of a building plot, and then you introduced another member who says, urban co-massation, which is exactly the same, which is stealing again, again abuse of local self-government when assigning construction land that belonged to local self-government for the formation of parcels, so we'll have the mouth again. We have the mouth, which received five acres for free of charge and no one, because it changed the plan under which the facility was built. Or, as you brought down the Zemun facility... When I say you don't mean you, but it's all because of regulations like this. You knocked down the facility because the geometers from the catastra found that it wasn't a good construction line, that it wasn't well set up; for 17 centimeters, that man entered a neighbor's plot. He was ready to pay. Yes, of course. No, he had to take down, because the other one paid more to the officials in the Zemun municipality, and all because it's bad law. What have you changed about that now? You're nothing. You haven't changed anything. Praise what you will build and how much you will build. What did you do to legalize, like, seven thousand objects in the Zemun settlements of the Blue Horizon, the Bolt and Busier? That was construction, Minister. That was construction. Now your field experts, they admire when they leave, say – how is it possible that you built streets like this, like the avenues, 14 meters wide? And another four meters to each facility, so every building on the construction line five meters from the beginning of its plot. It was taken care of because it was known that one day it needed to be legalized, but you don't. You took the local self-government, now I'm talking about Belgrade level, you took the items and you took them to the city of Belgrade. Now they say they don't have enough men. According to the story, they'll return it to local self-government units. They'll execute papers from every class as they walk from side to side. Minister, you know very well that this job can be done fairly quickly and very simply. The problem is, you said yourself there's a quiet boycott administration. Isn't that what it says about the state's impotence? You don't have the right, Minister, after three years of ministry, and it's already the eleventh year of Dossow government, to complain, as you said, about the devastation in this area. You could've golded everything in eleven years. I don't know how abandoned it was. You showed us a map of the catastras just now, what you did at the level of the catastras. What have you done, Minister? What did you paint in blue, what did you do? How blue is it painted, is so many objects registered? It's not. Is so many objects recorded? It's not. Was there any air-recording provided for in the Cataster Act? Yes, it is. Right? Okay. You'll answer later. I said, no, but come on. Twelve more minutes, like my colleague said. So, what did you do on the transfer of cadastrian operatives from the land and book departments of courts to the catastrophe? There's a collapse. You're talking about the caves that used to exist, but there's a collapse. Neither do land and book departments of courts, nor have the services of the catastra of immovableity taken over... (President: National MPs, the time available to the parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50873	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50874	Since many topics are open, I suggest we continue this debate when it comes to details. You've listed a few things here that absolutely don't stand and we'll deliver it to you. Anyway, all you're saying and what you're asking of us is a quick solution to something that requires a process. When we talk about moving from land books to a housing pad of all those acts that are necessary for their own records of buildings, books, etc. And when you talk about making all the spatial and regulatory plans, urban acts, they're all processes. So, according to the 2009 Law, local self-government is required to complete the spatial, regulation plan by September or March of the following year, and they are working on it. You know very well, you worked as a secretary, as far as I know, in one municipality, that there is a process that involves making different acts, public debates, a series of congregation decisions. We are in the process now, but it is done and it is done for the first time in Serbia. In many municipalities there has really never been, all the plans that are necessary for the issue of licences are done only in the interests of investors, you can imagine under what conditions. I want to be clear. I'm not complaining about the administration, I just want to point out the problem that we all have together, which is, when some laws that reduce arbitration and that need to introduce order of public performances and start working, there are ways to avoid these laws by automated means. It's not from today, years ago, decades ago, perhaps since Turkish time, when we're genetically, I guess, taught to try to bypass the state and cheat on it. It's simply something that exists as a problem, and most clearly in these areas where there is a great interest and a great disorientation. So don't think we're complaining. No, we do. When we see something's wrong, we make it right. I'm aware of the risk that you're criticizing me for not doing this or that, because I know that what I'm doing right now is making it better and I'm sure it'll get better. Thank you for saying that I am an honest man. You will not be ashamed of these words, for it really stands. All the attacks on me or on my associates are precisely because we're trying to touch a swamp that no one could touch. We'll do it till the end, we sleep peacefully, and you can sleep well too, because you can be sure that sometimes when you say some praise for it and how it has arguments. Anyway, there are a lot of things you've opened and we'll talk about. The conversion is a very difficult and broad topic. I think the concept, I remember it well, which you suggested in the debate concerning previous laws was not possible. This concept has proved to be much more effective. For that reason, we changed and completed. I wouldn't be long now. We'll have a chance to talk more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-02-0.u50875	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a principled search of the bill. This concludes our work today. The paper continues tomorrow, March 3rd, at 10:00 p.m., by discussing a law that is second on the agenda. I would like to announce immediately to the MPs that during tomorrow's working day we will have a debate on that agenda point, so, second item of the agenda, that's all. There will be no plenary session on Friday, but we will work Monday, as we have a visit from the president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
