ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63110	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, we are 70. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. Since we're 84, there are conditions to work. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 286 of our Rules of Procedure (Yes. ) National MP Željko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63111	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Serbia, there is one city in Serbia, still in Serbia, believe it or not, you from the ruling coalition, is called Kosovo Mitrovica. Today is the day of mourning in that city. We believe, from the Democratic Party of Serbia, that the president of parliament should have started a session with a minute of silence. Last night, Savo Mojsic was killed by a criminal hand, shot, and that is the fruit of decades-old Zulu by Albanians. Savo Mojsic was killed in Mitrovica and it's a day of mourning, and you're cheerfully chatty, very nice. My question today to the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the prime minister -- is it true that the negotiator on behalf of the government in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, Borko Stefanovic, is agreeing and working on joint checkpoints at the Brnjak and Jarinje border crossings, and that this is not any proposal from any international community, but that this is a proposal from Belgrade, or Belgrade authorities? With what mandate and what arguments, we want to hear it? You call integrated border management. We do not know what model you are applying, what is your particular intention and what is the mixture you want to apply to the Serbian-Kosovo border services, just as it exists between the Kosovo-Macedonia border service. What does that mean? This means that there are two sovereign states' border services. Thus, from a crawling recognition of Kosovo, you turned into a eloquent recognition of Kosovo as an independent state. Will this be found in your declaration, which we expect to finally see today, about Kosovo and Metohija? Who wrote that declaration? According to my information, it was written by the same ones who wrote a resolution last September 9th that went past the will of our MPs, with a completely different UN text. We are doing something secret again, but we will see, I hope, as you promised on Saturday, how much the day after tomorrow, to see what it says and whether you have approved those in this House who would never vote and have not voted for any resolutions and declarations that this Parliament has made. Either you in power, specifically even from the DS, will have a breakdown, or Serbia will suffer a breakdown, as much as in the next election. Serbia must not and will not give up rights to its part of the territory. Is this territory, that Kosovo and Metohija, is that the price for European candidacy, which may be and may not be? You owe it to the prime minister of the state to come and say it. The fact that he is going to answer the question to the MPs in writing, we do not have the possibility of the opposition, since you blocked all the media, we do not have the opportunity to respond, to the answers of both the Government and the Ministers, is a very different matter. Who will investigate and how the murder of Sava Mojsic? Will the Military Intelligence Agency now appear with its statement or the Military Security Agency or the MUP? I'm saying this as a member of the Security Committee. Will the actions of these three institutions be united to tell us what happened last night in Kosovo Mitrovica? Let the angels guard Sava Moses, and I don't know if God will be able to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63112	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63113	In line with the Rules of Procedure, we will ask several questions on behalf of the SRS, and answers are important not only for the work of MPs in the National Assembly, answers are important for Serbs on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we ask that the answer be made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia first. At first, I have to draw attention to you that for months this crisis on KIM territory in this form, in this brutal form, and as a consequence of everything that's going on, we have wounded Serbs, shot Serbs, Serbs in barricades and we have a situation that the government of the Republic of Serbia acts as if it's happening in the far, far, abroad. We of the SRS tried through the National Assembly, with one of our proposals for a declaration, to simply act politically. A political stance in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that would obligate both state authorities and all citizens. Every day when the National Assembly is in session, we start a session with a question about when this session is planned and we keep getting some assurances in a few days, in a few days. But what happens in continuity in KIM territory with Serbs is that they get killed, that they die, that they disappear, that the government of the Republic of Serbia offers them some papers, twists their hands, forces them to make some concessions. At the same time, we reportedly have representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia who are talking, negotiating with representatives of the false state of Kosovo and creating major confusion. Serbs are again injured in this confusion. They were killed last night. Professionals shot at them, members of Ross in that neighborhood, and here's the debate. Some would like to give up KIM, and the government as a squawk and wonder whether the EU will fail by December 9th or not. If it fails, then it will remember the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, if the EU does not fail, then it will offer variations – both the EU and KIM, the KIM part of Serbia, Serbia joined the EU. The KIM variant in the EU, Serbia in the EU. We are in favour of protecting the human and minority rights of Serbs in the KIM territory and all the way up to each other by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What does the government intend to do to ensure that Serbs no longer die? Very specifically, since the international missions of June, July, in August 1999, international missions have been in the functions of Shiparian Separatism and their terrorist organisations and members of those units from the period today testify that they were tasked with banishing Serbs. In the presence of international forces, Serbs kill, wounded, beaten. It's the same situation today. The international forces, whatever you call them, work for the Shiptar side. What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do specifically so that every day Serbs don't die and when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia finally express its political position, because these people need support? As long as they're unique they'll be alive. This government must finally commit itself to its constitution. At the center of the activity to protect its citizens. It must no longer happen that no one gets hurt, especially none of the Serbs, by terrorists who just changed some uniforms in the presence of international forces.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63114	Thank you. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the sittings of MP Djordje Milicevic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Mr Bozidar Djidić, Deputy Prime Minister and Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of the Environment, Mines and Spatial Planning, has called for the members to attend both Miodrag Djidić and Dusan Nikezić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mirjana Bichikin, adviser to the Ministry of Public Debt, Dejan Hadzic, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, Anka Gajic, Director of the Department for Sale of State and Social Capital at the Deposit Insurance Agency and Aleksandar Vulović, Director of the Office for Games at the Ministry of Finance. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail of the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation on the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors – the user of public funds, for commitments made under INS, or loans. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Stevanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirovic, Radojko Obradovic and Zoran Krasic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Mr. Stevanović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63115	Given that I have received a very useful suggestion from my colleagues, in anticipation of an authorised representative of the government, I was told to tell me about Kosovo, of course, representatives of the government. I can't not do that. It is disgusting to talk today in the Assembly about cleaning the balances of public enterprises and institutions that have been around all these years, I would say for decades they have worked as they did and as we wash their balances, under the auspices of the EU a Serb at KIM was killed yesterday. We deal with someone's debts, robberies, irresponsibleness, and representatives of the authorities chat and earn. Since you want me to talk about Kosovo, I said. We ask you when the session, when the government will say what our answer will be in relation to whether the government will be effective in solving the problem at KIM, as it wants to be effective in cleaning up the balance sheet of public enterprises and institutions that you have brought back to an unspeakable position for the past 10 years, and let alone something more. So, the SRS thinks it's degutant to talk about all this while, under the auspices of the EU, losing the lives of Serbs at KIM. As far as this law is concerned, we have made our position very clear through these amendments. We're not saying that in the economy, finance and fiscal policy, it's not possible for the state to take over or guarantee some debt for an enterprise or institution whose founder is, but this is where the question arises, given that in the light of the law, you wrote that these debts were from the time of sanctions or before sanctions, why haven't these balances been cleared so far? What made the government of the Republic of Serbia think that the balances of these companies are clear right now, when the budget deficit is as large as it is, when this country's debt is as large, when unemployment in this country is as big, when inflation is so much, and when the standard of citizens is at what level is today in Serbia? Gentlemen of the government, why didn't you clear the balance sheets of these companies when the budget surplus was, how did you show it five or six percent? It was at a time when you promised international financial institutions that you would solve the problem of public enterprises, or that you would enter into restructuring. Why didn't you clean their balances then? You weren't interested at the time, you weren't interested. You started to settle down and pay their debts. What is the SRS particularly interested in, with which right do you release public enterprises and institutions from the obligation to repay the budget of the money that the budget today serves for them? On whose behalf are you doing this? It wasn't 100% of the voter's body voted for you. Even those who voted for you do not give you the right to make their money available to the Republic of Serbia's budget the way you have it. For ten years, Serbia has been waiting, upon your coming to power, for the restructuring of the public sector. Why didn't you restructure the public sector? If you had restructured it in time, we wouldn't have made sure of it. You did not restructure it because a large source of income was found in the public sector, which is personal income, which is income for your political parties. Of these money that will become a debt and burden on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have funded your political campaigns, you have funded new children like those who are not here, new Europeans and ultra-European forces in Serbia, you have funded everything that has brought us into position today and ranked on all possible lists in the world we are in. As far as the SRS is concerned, this law is essentially your relationship with the public sector. Absolute irresponsibility, incompetence and carelessness. Perhaps it's a good thing Mr. Dulic is here, yesterday we opened a story about money and the possibility of investment in the public sector. Mr. Dulic, that's why there's no money to channel, so there's no water money, because Serbia is funding this kind of crazy, because we're all funding somebody's ride together from the Republic of Serbia's budget, someone's responsibility and someone's indiscretion, crime and corruption. A few days ago, the Ministry of Finance was informed by the Public Procurement Authority, if you did not know, of 14 or 15 controversial public procurements during the first six or seven months of this year. The amount of the disputed money is around 14m euros. Do you know what the first company to be founded by the Republic of Serbia is on the list of controversial public procurements? The biggest public procurement is the public enterprise The Ways of Serbia, which are now laundering the balances for 400m and 500m dollars, respectively. Who's reasonable and rational to accept it as smart and well? No one can. There are 12 or 13 other companies there and it's only for the first six months of this year. What else should Serbian citizens, directed by the current regime, pay and finance? The granted public enterprises are financed, their irresponsibility in terms of tax and contribution is financed, excessive public sector employment is financed, they are paid interest and loans which they cannot rely on. New guarantees for the new responsibilities of these same companies will be provided in the budget for this and for the following year. On all of that, you're still cleaning their balance. We have no intention of supporting that and of participating. Who's funding it all? It's funded by people who barely make ends meet, one that survives on a business scene in Serbia, small and medium-sized enterprises dominant, but you have no idea that you can single them out a healthy and real subsidy, you have no idea that you're paying them jobs like you pay for the foreign companies that come here. How much more to put up with? The SRS has requested in the budget rebalancing that you define $100m to settle debts towards the real sector, to pay your commitments to the Republic of Serbia's budget to domestic goods and services producers. You didn't want to do this, but you accepted that 500m euros, or 700m euros, are nearly a billion dollars to wash your balances with public enterprises and institutions that you yourself say are not capable of producing money that will serve their obligations, not now, not even in the perspective, but are very important to you, public enterprises that, 10 years after your arrival in power, are unable to ensure that trains move at an average speed of more than 60km an hour. You don't really have the credibility or the legitimacy to ask for anything anymore. You've shown yourself how much you know and how much you're worth. We really believe that someone from the government is telling us what the state and citizens of Serbia, given the fact that they're going to pay for someone's irresponsibility and dissponsibility, is going to get it from someone else, whether from these public enterprises and institutions, would be correct at least to tell us. This is neither we can nor want to support and we believe that this is another law that is really in the right sense of words the nature of Boris Tadic's regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63116	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63117	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this amendment should be rejected. In the light of this amendment, we had a wide range of explanations and arguments that do not stand in line with the truth. In doing so, it is good for some political parties to be in opposition, because it is obvious that this opposition activity in them is triggering an attack of concern for a state that they did not show when they had the opportunity to manage this country, and management has turned into rule. Of course, no one in the ruling majority will ever, of course, print from public sector money, for example, the books of a party leader in one arrogant and rude way. Of course no one will finance their own political activity out of public sector money in such a way. Of course, no one in the current ruling majority will ever push both hands into the people's pocket and the government's register and then use that money to do everything in his power to make it even more in a party account, as some political parties did. Of course, that this current opposition thinking and concern for the state will have its basis, if someone is in opposition for as long as possible, then they will have this crowd of noble ideas when it comes to the government's budget, about the state's money, because once again, God forbid, we would be able to do what they did, we would have what we had and what we found in this country's budget when we took responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63118	Vice-President Jovanovic Natasa is advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63119	Mr. Novakovic, you've injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because you did not interrupt the previous speaker who appeared for the reasons of adjudication, loss. I really don't know if he's obsessed with the SRS, and if he is and should be, since the SRS idea of Serbia's suntanning, entering the EU and selling our southern provinces of KIM by the president of the previous speaker, Boris Tadic, will be the hardest to criticise until we get you off the back of the people. Your borrowings and thefts, written today by all the printed media in Serbia, of at least half a billion euros through public procurement, Mr Milivojevic, should be a debate for the whole day and that the people of the strictest stamps you. When you return to your native Krushevac to ask you where you and your party...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63120	You are advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I have done and you are turning it into a replica to Mr Milivojevic This is a very serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and I cannot allow it (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: I will explain it to you then, Mr Novakovic. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: I am not turning it into a replica.]] ) The explanation is that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Milivojevic was talking about the amendment, and the interpretation that makes him think you should not accept the amendment will be seen if you consult a stenogram. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, second member. ) Republishing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63121	I'm reporting under Article 27. Rules of Procedure, since you are currently in office as chairman of the National Assembly. Mr. Novakovic, I am witnessing that you have not been following Srdjan Milivojevic in one piece at all. If you had followed you could have concluded that the borrowing done by DS and your Mladjan Dinkic and the entire regime of Serbian citizens had nothing to do with Professor Vojislav Seselj's books, and at least with the truth that his books were printed by taxpayers' money or state funds. The books of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who were read by Mr. Milivojevic, and you with him, which would help you greatly in your life and understanding, and nations, and states, and above all that we as a people are printed exclusively by the means of the SRS and our edition of Greater Serbia. Therefore, you should have interrupted him and told him, or possibly, because I know you read a lot of our president's books, Mr. Novakovic, to teach him which book to read, and I recommend that he read a book about the mafias of Zoran Djindjic and DS, and above all, the ideology of Serbian nationalism to understand how to live in this country and how to fight for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63122	I think it's enough to see that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs to read before they report for the word of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that they do not come into an awkward situation to apply the obligation imposed on me by Article 103. The word is Mr Milivojevic Srdjan, who also advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I hope he listened carefully to what I asked the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63123	Mr. Novakovic, I think he's a broken member of 103th and 104th. Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Although you look closely at the stenographic notes, you will see that I never mentioned the SRS anywhere in my previous presentation. Miss Jovanovic recognized herself and recognized Vojislav Seselj, which is good, unclean conscience is a good thing, it's good when someone recognizes himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63124	Mr. Milivoevich, I'm the only one who can do the damage to the Rules of Procedure. So no one else can hurt the Rules of Procedure, but it can be abused by a MP who, in an effort to get a word of advertising, is a wrong member. So a member of 103 can never be on that basis. There can be no breach of the Rules of Procedure and in 103 and 104, one has nothing to do with the other. I ask you not to abuse the right that the Rules of Procedure allow in case the Chairman really hurts the Rules of Procedure, because that blade loses importance and we turn the Assembly and the chat room that I will not allow. The right to replica has Mr. Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63125	I agree with my colleague Milivojevic that it is a good thing that one state has such a party in the opposition that there is someone who will talk about the robbery of crime and the irresponsibility of the government of which it is part. Mr. Milivoevich, it's not bad that we're the opposition...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63126	Just no personal address, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63127	I'm sorry. Look, Mr. Novakovic, it's not bad that we're in opposition, but it's dangerous that they're in power. I'll only try to list a few things in these two minutes that are the order of the current regime. There are, for example, Bojan Kristo, and the robberies in JAT, then in "The Ways of Serbia", then Bojan Kristo, then Difenz Road, then Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, then Goran Novaković, then Goran Pitic, then Aleksandar Vlahović, and Miodrag Kostic sugarane, and Dragoljub Marmivo-product, etc. I mean, I can still count, cements, sugars, brewers, Sartid in Smedereva, etc., etc. These are all your hands of action. Don't put an SRS on the burden of dragging your hands into the public sector and into your pockets. Is that what you're talking about? I am now saying that only for the first six months of this year, 13 public procurement has recognised 14m euros in theft. What does the SRS have to do with it? This is either being accused or being burdened with the responsibility of the directors you've appointed, not the SRS. Imagine that so much stolen money puts it on the line for you as a violation. So, don't accuse the SRS of thieving, clear up the thieving in your ranks, so that both the SRS and the citizens who vote for you one day would be easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63128	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Mr. Jeremic, who is also an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63129	Thank you very much. A few days ago, we heard from the prime minister that a historic event occurred, namely that we successfully broke through the ice sales of foreign-market government securities. Meanwhile, by the IMF, we received a new precautionary agreement providing Serbia with a billion-euro loan, so a while ago, the Deputy Prime Minister also informed us that the World Bank will pay $200 million to Serbia, and so it goes to some of its own, and we have this today, what are we talking about, and what is the problem? The problem is that at the same time, so all the state officials of the governor of the National Bank, the President of the Fiscal Council, are persistently trying to convince the public that the public debt did not cross the legal red line of 45% of GDP, that there was no breach of the budget system law, etc. Unfortunately, however, the reality of the country's external debt, with the size of public debt, is much more unfavourable than the state's representatives point out or want to convince the public. What is evident is that in the last few years the states have really been in significant debt both in foreign exchanges and in dinars and in all objective accounts, of course they belong to highly-indebted countries, because its external debt has de facto crossed that critical line. What I also want to point out to this occasion is that it's very important to point out, that whatever debt we're talking about, whether it's an external or internal public debt, all those numbers that are being brought up, again I'm telling the representatives of the authorities who are trying to convince us that it's not as black as it is, is mostly expressed without any amount of interest being followed. Given the fact that Serbia's external debt is currently around 24 billion euros, that it is burdened by an average interest rate of 5% and, for example, over the next ten years will not change the amount of external debt, then it is easy to conclude with a simple account that it is only for interest to provide about 12 billion euros. So basically it means that the total foreign debt now is actually about 36 billion euros or 51 billion dollars, as it is easier or harder to remember, which basically means that each citizen of Serbia owes about 5,000 euros. Because of all this, it is indeed economically unwarranted and irrationally new borrowing, both in the country and abroad, especially if the funds received in general or in part are spent over the budget. In this case, new foreign borrowing is immoral, of course, the funds are spent, debt is passed on to future generations, and perhaps the real question is how this money is spent in vain if so many economic experts were sitting in various governments of Serbia, and we were constantly controlled by the IMF and the World Bank and many other international institutions, and yet unfortunately as the country where we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63130	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the people sent by Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63131	Mr. Novakovic, let's focus a little on this law. The law has four members. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted four amendments. All amendments are to be deleted. This fourth member refers to the day of entry into force of this law. Legally-technically, it has been properly written on the eighth day since the day of publication, however, and this amendment shares the fate of previous amendments and is therefore listed as "expunged". Just to remember which bill we are on – the bill to regulate relations between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors, the users of public funds for foreign loans, i.e. loans, and this is the third law in a series. Please, two laws have previously been passed that regulate these obligations, and this is the third one where the balances of these public enterprises should be cleared, because the state is always a guarantee of the obligations of public enterprises on the basis of loans, foreign loans, but in the previous system there have always been some banks intermediating between abroad and public enterprises, and now the balances are being cleaned -- the Railways of Serbia, the roads of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Radio Yugoslavia, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, is a little strange or the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Subotica. Legally-technically correct, but an ambis has been opened with questions to which there are no answers. I'm making continuity with the previous two laws and then I come into one big dilemma. In this system of write-offs and in this system of taking all obligations to account for and burden on the Republic of Serbia, its budget. We are coming into a situation where you, by means of a bill like this, are sending us a message that you have to underline the line and that the question of responsibility is resolved, as is the question of those who were in these public enterprises, as well as the question of the responsibility of those who were in the business banks, and today, the whole issue can be solved because it is focused on one point. That point is called the Deposit Insurance Agency. There are commitments between banks of guarantors and banks that have appeared abroad. In this whole decomposition today, thanks to the pro-European policy of 2000 to today, we have come to the situation that we have a Post-Spain Savings Bank and the Serbian Bank as two banks where 96% of the shares are held by the Republic of Serbia. The commercial bank of Belgrade and Cachanska Banka, where the state has 42.5% and 28% respectively, is co-production with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We also have the Credit Bank, Agro Bank, Business Bank Belgrade and Jubmes Bank, where Serbia owns from 15% to 20%. So the question of responsibility is an integral part of this bill. This is not a technical regulation on how to clean the balances. Mr Novakovic, at the request of DS MPs, because they keep getting me to talk about KIM, just to distract you, the question of KIM, from preamble to the last member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is not only national, state, political, social, but also economic. Boris Tadic may give up what he has as his own, but what is the national wealth and economic potential of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of Serbia, and by chance by a natural set of circumstances on KIM territory, cannot be handled lightly. You can give yours because of the frozen image, the EU's mirage at hand. Why do I draw your attention that this law is inevitably opening up the question of responsibility? Mr. Novakovic, I'm going to read something now, you must know that. The prize question – what is common with "Bačka" a.d. in restructuring "Sivac", "Dolovo" a.d. Dolovo, "Vojvodina" a.d. Starčevo, "Mala Bosna" in restructuring from Mala Bosna, "Agro Baka" from Somboro, "Seme Tamis" from Pančeva, "Jadran" Nova Gajdobra, "Sedmi juli" Sirig, "Young Fighter" Sonta, "Omolitica" from Omolitica, "Brath and Unity" Neuzin? What else is in common? In all these 11 a.d., the president and members of the Management Board are the same people - Dragan Milivojčević, Vuk Delibasic, a worker of the Privatisation Agency, Vladimir Bubanja, a worker of the Privatisation Agency. In all 11, maybe I was wrong, Mr. Novakovic, maybe I was misinformed by my source from the Privatisation Agency, check this out. What does this have to do with anything? Now let me explain. Well, similar experts have torn this up, similar experts. Are they in conflict of interest? Let me remind you. Eleven years in power, I remind you on October 5th, 6.5 billion marks were on the border, just waiting to be spilled across the border. You will introduce order in public enterprises. Serbia's railway, what order? What's wrong over there? Guys, what are you getting yourself into? It's drying up. Yesterday I explained to you, you invented a new traffic sign – the forbidden passing of trams in the turn because they can crash. When DS is in power, only then do trams crash when they pass each other. It's not funny, you've promoted the principle of being able to vote from Turkey, from Bodrum. You voted from Bodrum to elect the governor in 2003. You just want to finish the job here, clean the balances. When the balances are cleared, it will light up Serbia's railways. As far as I know, you have two criminal proceedings for the Serbian Railways. How much do you have for Serbia's roads? You have the index, you have that plumber's affair from Kruševec. You did not save Goran the Prince of yours. He's not yours anymore. You gave him up? When he took the money, he was yours. They found money in the vault saying it was DS money for hidden campaigns, just like HDZ, but it's only the prosecutor's problem. Now Zagrka's here, she can't. It can't be done. It's the exact same ambience.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63132	Mr. Krasic, you know very well that it is neither nice nor polite to talk about court proceedings that are under way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63133	Mr. Novakovic, it is not nice and polite for you to interrupt me, since I have said three times in my speech that you who vote for this law are inevitably calling on the government to pass another regulation based on which responsibility should be opened. Let me tell you right now, these obligations are before 1980, specifically. But you have to open the question - where are these banks as guarantors? What kind of banking business is that? What about the assets of the banks in bankruptcy? What about the rest of the property? Who built other people's banks on the property of banks in bankruptcy? You have to open that question. You're opening that question. With this bill of law, you're opening that question. If you do not open this question, then no one should settle credit-based and foreign loans, because there is a government of the Republic of Serbia as a good notation for everyone, but not for her to be a good nona, you will not do so with her money Dulic, who escaped, or Djelic from his two bags, but all taxpayers to rehabilitate. You know, based on these credit arrangements, there's a much bigger obligation on the basis of interest than on the basis of the principal. And to draw your attention to these eleven-year-old duties of the Republic of Serbia, which have now reached 27 billion euros, what everything needs to be born in this country to meet that obligation, and you -- frozen image, beautiful EU -- are about to enter. We'll never be members of the EU. We'll never be in the NATO Pact. Wake up, sober up. That story is gone. Mr. Novakovic, tomorrow I think I'll bring you the text of the petition, as the SRS collects the signatures of citizens who are against this suicide path to the EU and I, God forbid, am counting on you to sign that petition, to join, because 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia sign that petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63134	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. As the draft law has been reviewed in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on Games on Happiness You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisladović, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Vuk Dinčić, Đorđe Milić, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Rajkovic, Zoran Krasic, Dusan Marić, Zlata Djerić, Miroslav Marković and Srđević. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the international MP Đorđe Milicevic and MP Vuk Dincic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to article 18 by the MP Gordan Rajkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63135	Mr. Novakovic, do you remember, we're at the draft law on gambling? He cheats on our public interest, because everyone trusts in happiness, especially those who buy the vine and pay for the bingo ticket. Those who don't pay in advance have given up their happiness. Isn't that right, Mr. Novakovic? When did the lucky player wave great happiness? When Bojan Kristo came. However, Mr. Novakovic, Bujan Kristo has left the state lottery. He wasn't making any progress, he was going back a little bit. As a consolation prize, Belgrade Airport came. You know what a scandal has happened, but little does anyone know that the express has been moved from the state lottery because of Miroljub Labus. Isn't that right, Mr. Novakovic? It's not like that. Oh, yeah, you're the United Regions now, you're not G 17. I'm sorry, I'm confused. I can get a warning. Serbia's state lottery has in some ways become a natural monopolies for happiness. Since happiness is now with the sign 'euro', European, you're not giving up Europe, are you? Don't, wait for the ninth, maybe they'll die by the ninth. You see, in Stepojevac, there's a bookie called the Euro Chance, a great opportunity to succeed by the definition of the great West. During the night, you can become a billionaire, rich, etc., because it allows you capitalism. We are now in the field of the 19th Monopoly. Could the state lottery of Serbia have such a kind of monopoly that this monopoly can be written off in the final sequence in the following way - Serbia's state lottery can also host other gambling games if it meets the conditions prescribed by this law for other directors. Can anyone figure out what they wanted to write? What's behind this formulation? We've passed everything by law, but the law doesn't have to apply when it comes to Serbia's state lottery, because it can do anything. You know that the Serbian State lottery lost its dispute with that lady, that working dispute and the mobbing one, and it came into a working dispute and it started to talk about what's going on in the State lottery of Serbia, which crime, under the auspices of a government that needs to know, because there are no random shooters. Someone accidentally broke in and became the director of the Serbian State lottery. No, please. Mr. Novakovic, I simply can't understand, is it possible that no one will report to the amendment regarding Article 18? A bill of law? You know for a fact that this member has caused the biggest controversy in the public. You see, no one has answered, not even the applicant of the amendment, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has miswritten the amendment. There's a correction to this amendment, about these percentages, about this math. How to share the 40% that belongs to the state, is that what it is? What belongs to the state, how can it be shared? Well, humanitarian organizations, and disabled organizations, the Red Cross, the local self-government, and, I must say, those who worked hard to get Mrs. Rajkov to write this amendment, everything seems to me to be right. Why should these money be made a special health fund for these rare diseases? Why isn't that in the health care fund? You see, there's no interest. Good amendment. We had our doubts on the Finance Committee because it's about the situation that whatever you decide you're wrong because he's such a conjecture member. No one disputes noble intentions, but whether to take units of local self-government, their 18.5% or 19%, and when these funds are given to local self-government units, they should be dedicated to disabled people, etc. If they are taken, then this fund is built, then it is more a health fund than a humanitarian-social fund, for disabled people, disabled people, etc. So the real dilemma has opened up, there's no discussion about the dilemma. Why? It's not interesting, someone can't be installed. The state lottery should have a monopoly. Today, a monopoly is being made, and now there will be a monopoly in public procurement. How can 500m euros be stolen without Boris Tadic knowing? Is it possible that so much money swims in public procurement, and that he didn't have a thing for it? No, he doesn't. If it wasn't for his name, do you know if you were ambassadors? Never. Respect a little man. It's the whole operation. Do you remember we almost changed the law on gambling? Do you remember that the association of these game directors happily wrote to elaborate so on, and so on. And now out of pure peace, out of the blue, out of the blue, out of the new law, why? Now inspection surveillance will be extremely high-quality because all computers will monitor, electronics. The electronics will monitor as the electronics monitors the VAT at Maxie's, at Tempe's, at night they transmit the data. He says they have a direct connection with the country's main north where, as he confirms on the register that payment was made, that block came out, immediately in the income management registered that traffic. Is that right? In the morning, you rush into self-service, he says -- we can't open it, the computer transmits data, the price of the data. All according to European standards, we will now have games according to European standards and happiness will be according to European rules. Mr. Dulic, when I wake up in the morning, I first look at the shoelaces if they are in line with the standards, then I see if the holes on the shoes are in line with European standards, and then I see if the sole has been licked enough to meet Europe's needs or if this one is ours. So when I get through all this successfully, then I go to work and say, "What standard is today going to hit us?" When it was a few days ago, this Portuguese, this accountant, you know what he says, Mr. Dulic? It shows that you are changing these European standards. We in Portugal only use 2% of what suits us. What doesn't suit us, we won't even read. Imagine what they do in Europe, how they treat their standards. You are the last EU base. Angela Merkel wants to war in the EU because of a referendum announcement, and you're bleeding to stay the EU, to keep you a story, a frozen picture of a beautiful mirage, everything is nice, we just need to join the EU. You're acting like that little girl that the guy left behind, and she's sorry. He doesn't love us EU, don't you get it? The EU has to do with luck, Mr. Novakovic. Joining the EU is a gambling game. (President: That is true, but it has nothing to do with this amendment. It is a game of luck. What does Mrs. Merkel say? You're not lucky at this extraction, you're playing next time, you might be more successful. Do you know, Mr. Novakovic, that they are now considering four new conditions. You've never heard of those four new conditions before. One of those conditions has nothing to do with gambling. Four new conditions independent of KIM. (President: But your amendment wants to delete Article 19, Article 8, and that is where I do not share your happiness for it). For eleven years, all my amendments refer to how to wipe out the EU from the brain and finally to turn to themselves. Thank you for not taking my notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63136	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63137	Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed to delete attitude 2, which provides for the right to stage classic gambling through electronic communications means only the State lottery of Serbia. We of the SRS believe that the organization of games, these and any other gambling is not supposed to be a monopoly, so we suggested that this attitude be deleted. The government rejected this amendment with one unmistakable explanation whose essence is approximately: the amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the text of the law, and we know that amendments are submitted precisely in order to amend the text of the law. I remind you that the opposition has criticised Slobodan Milosevic in due time, as he ordered the organisation of the famous game Bingo for the cast of the people and the preservation of the authorities. It started somewhere at the time. He allowed a transmission, organized a transfer of numbers to play on state television. Then, next to Bingo, as I recall, we only had one more Loto game. Now instead of two lotterys a week, we watch 10 games of chance on TV, but a day. As long as you turn on the TV, there's no way you can watch on one of the TV channels you're not watching it spray everything out of millionaires, billionaires, microwave ovens, refrigerators, cars, and God knows what not. Now when people play gambling in Serbia don't invest any more money, they don't invest just money, they invest everything they have, wife, family, honor, biography, absolutely everything. Earlier, some newspapers published a prize game, mostly once a year, and these were mostly Evening News, serious prize games. Today you don't have a newspaper that doesn't publish any prize games almost daily. People in Serbia are no longer buying newspapers to read them, but to scratch them. Then these geniuses, who came up with it, estimated that it wasn't enough for people to scratch once, now they can scratch two, three times, and the result is always the same -- more happiness in tomorrow's number. By October 5, 2000, this was official, in Belgrade and Serbia there were around 75 bookies. So, in each other municipality, one serious bookie, in 2004, about 350, last year there were around 1900, now those who deal with this problem claim they're gone more than 1300 and estimate there's another 300 illegals, so, about 1600 bookies. We have more bookies and casinos than primary, high school and kindergarten together. By October 5th, there were slightly less than 2,000 poker machines in Serbia, today there are 19,000. In this explanation, the bill's proposal, it is said, is estimated to double by 2013. According to the SOS mall for gambling addiction, in Serbia 3.5 million people participate in these games of happiness that you organise, which you have infected people. Of that, 700 thousand are pathological addictions to gambling. There are several thousand children among them, and the youngest addict who is 11 years old is registered at this center. Now, after 10 years of government of the Dossow parties, you have the next result -- 700 thousand pathological gamblers and 700,000 Serbian citizens who today have nothing to eat. According to official data, they live below the poverty line, they can't buy a kilo of bread today, buy a liter of milk and a kilo of potatoes. I remind you, ahead of the last elections, Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic pledged to open 200,000 jobs in four years. We all know that about 300,000 people have been fired from work since 2008. You know where they didn't fail? They didn't fail when it comes to gambling. This is where daily progress is made. I remind you that Dinkic said that he lied when he promised thousands of euros per capita head and the production of hundreds of thousands of cars from this plant in Kragujevac, I have one good proposal that in the next pre-election campaign he promises to open thousands of casinos and purchase 100,000 poker machines, I don't think he will fail. Under the authority of these current parties in Serbia, life has mostly turned into a single lottery, a gambling game. Everything's a lottery, absolutely everything. (President: Mr. Maric, you must agree within the parliamentary group whether it is luck or an accident. You're talking about the accident, Mr. Krasic was talking about luck, so you're confusing me, and otherwise neither of us is in particular about eradicating Article 2.) I will honor this suggestion of yours, and when this session is over, I will speak to Mr. Krasic. We think it is, however, an accident, an accident called the DS and parties with the DS in a coalition in the current republican government. As it is said here that there is a need to organise even more gambling, as it is estimated that the number of these betting places will increase by 2013 and since I see that the funds achieved by gambling represent a significant share in the Republic of Serbia's budget, I have designed to propose to the ruling parties to organise two new gambling games in the pre-election campaign. You know that in Serbia, 30,000 people die annually more than they are born. Of which two thousand... (President: You could have changed that. But your amendment is not about new gambling, it's about erasing Article 2(2).) If you'll allow me, after three sentences, I'll put it in a relationship. So, since these unfortunates who die two thousand are buried at the expense of the state, I suggest you organise a prize game where the daily reward would be a free funeral and a weekly funeral award in the Alley of deserved citizens. You know why I'm saying this? Because I believe that every citizen of Serbia who has lived under Dossovic authority for 10 years deserves to be buried in the Alley of deserved citizens deserves the status of a deserved citizen. The next game – since we have 700,000 hungry, I seriously suggest this, of which 80,000 children, of which 620,000 are trying to secure a place in folk cuisines, I suggest you organise a reward game where the daily prize will be an annual subscription to free use of these folk cuisines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63138	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Maric has proposed to delete the members...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63140	Excuse me, Mr. Avramovic. You'll get the word, but Mrs. Kolundjia answered, advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63141	Mr. Chairman, I'm giving this to you and I expect you to comply with Articles 104 and 107. The Rules of Procedure shall ensure that the dignity of this House is not violated by allowing MPs to express offensively about other parliamentary groups, parties or the President of the Republic. The fact is that one who thus speaks of another speaks most of himself and he is an insult to himself and to all those citizens who see him and who have sent him to this parliament. But in order to protect the integrity of this institution, I ask you not to allow such an address in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63142	Thank you. There's no damage to Article 104 or Article 107. I tried to eliminate potential insults as much as I could. Because trying to be funny can cause completely opposite effects. So, we must respect this tolerance, so much so that you are right to be offended at the expense of another parliamentary group or the current official in power or the President of the Republic cannot tolerate, I ask the Members of Parliament to illustrate their dictionary, even in attempts that, despite their efforts, do not cause particularly wit. Mr Avramovic has the word. I apologize again. (Dusan Maric, from the place: Right to replica. Did you hear what she said? Should I get you a stenogram? )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, if we take a stenogram of the previous speaker, you'll be absolutely right about what you said about the individual's speech saying enough about him. Therefore, in Article 22, by deleting Article 2 of this Article, it shall be possible to respect this previous Article of Article 12(3). What is defined by Article 22, 2nd, is Serbia's state lottery monopoly, which says it only has the right to play classic gambling, through means of electronic communication, has the only State lottery of Serbia, without special approval. Point 3 of Article 12 says this - Under the auspices of the Board of Games and its competence, that the administration can carry out a public call procedure to grant permission for the performance of special gambling games in toys, in accordance with the procedure of granting licences, prepare drafts of the Government's act on granting and withdrawing permits and carry out other professional tasks relating to giving and withdrawing licences. So, if there is one member who says that only the State lottery of Serbia can do so, and then there is a member who says that the Serbian State lottery, with the special consent of the administration, can entrust the job to other societies and organisations, that in the playrooms and toys, as you have indicated here, will allow other people to fill the budget of their businesses. So for these clear reasons, you've also listed here in the definition, on the grounds of the law being passed by an emergency procedure. First, Mrs. Hope, I'm going to read this to you, because you are directly to blame for this argument: "The passing of the law on gambling by emergency procedure is necessary for the reason that the existing system of field control of the preparation of special games has shown great disadvantages, which has resulted in low income from compensation and abuse by the parties", so now, neither the guilty nor the debtor here has been blamed by the Commissioner for Games, "so that at this moment he is not overseeing gambling and the new law will be systematically solved". Then why didn't you settle this with the first law that was on the agenda less than a year ago? Then who's to blame for this damage? Who's going to make up for this because the inspector couldn't determine the shortcomings and thus couldn't afford to charge the money into the budget? You of the DS have pressed a key that says – Yes, we accept this law because of the political anomaly and coalition partner who has set the conditions for it, and now here you are accusing an unfortunate inspector who has no legal ability to exercise field control and determine irregularity, in fact determining what minus the budget and the lottery of Serbia is, and hence, the state budget, because you have tied his hands that he cannot do so and there is no legal solution. You are still giving a member who says – We will provide a special administration, a special act that will allow the government to allow users to be in the casinos in front of the lottery of Serbia, so that they can trust the business with private persons. Unfortunately, this happened before the law was passed. Here, check out the example of four municipalities in Belgrade, the Sava Venac municipality, the Old Town, Vračar, one part of the city's Palilu town centre, which the firm is working in front of Serbia's lottery game of chance and which has an obligation to fill its own budget and not the state budget? I will inform you that this is a "direct group" in which Mr. Nikola Mandic, who has made it clear to DS, is officially in the APR Agency – give me a monopoly of gambling in these four municipalities, since there are incomes and how big, I will give all the money until the election campaign and after the election all the money goes into my personal budget. It's evidence that says... (President: Please don't talk about things we don't know about. ) These are evidence from employers who hold Serbia's lottery in their facilities. And games of chance. Mr. Novakovic, when you open a gambling stand, you can't have exactly how many gambling cards you're going to sell in one day or a month. In fact, every card is income, because it costs between 12 and 15 dinars, and it's sold from 50 to 150 dinars and all that money that's earned from it, except taxes, goes into private pockets. In fact, every card is income, because it costs from 12 to 15 dinars, and it's sold from 50 to 150 dinars, and all that money that's earned from it, except taxes, goes into private pockets. When an employer who sells gambling calls Serbia's lottery and asks her, "I'm sorry, who's the gentleman from the "direct group" who came to offer me a contract because I have the right to refuse it," and they say, "I'm sorry, but the management has entrusted him with this job even though the law hasn't made it possible for us, and if you don't sign it, we'll be obliged to break the co-operation agreement". That's what he says clearly that monopoly exists. So, if we take into account all the facts of how much money can be made and who is entrusted with the job and in any way, who has authorized any administration to choose directly by choosing names and last names and persons to represent them in the Serbia lottery, in fact, with employers selling games of chance. How is it possible to control when you yourself, in a legal explanation, say that there is no field control? Well, when a car gets thrown out in the middle of Prince Michael's, because it sells gambling, who gets the car, it's known that no one got the car, or if someone gets the car, gets someone close to the one who organized it, so that the media can be escorted and escorted and animated as many citizens who are looking for a rescue in 50 or 100 dinars to ensure their happiness. So, the complete kind of monopoly that is made possible by this previous law, and now by altering and supplementing, to be legalized into subletting the sale of gambling and how transparent it is. Take the role of Direct Group, as many as in four municipalities only. If the problem is the business of this company, why does it not operate in the territory of all Serbia or in the territory of the municipality where Luttria has its employers, actually users, and there is no one to earn? So, where there's profit, there's our man and our company to put, not to read Mr. Mandic's biography now, the CEFTA Agreement and everything else he participated in, otherwise the "direct Group" knows whose company, although in the APR there is no who owns it, but only who is the director. That tells you enough what all the scams are doing to get the money, so that the money from these gimmicks can buy votes in the election campaign. I'll do it for you, you'll do it for me and everyone, the wolf full and the sheep in number, and what about the citizens of Serbia? What about the budget? You yourself admitted that the budget isn't charged because there's no field work control system. There's no control system. Well, how is he going to check that inspector's control system, ask the employer for a solution, when he was forced to bring the contract to his attention to sign it, under threat, if he doesn't sign it, that Serbia's entire lottery would break off co-operation. Where there is more than in Belgrade's capital, in four central municipalities. So what do we think, what happens in smaller suburban municipalities across Serbia, if this happens here where incomes are such, where everything is transparent, that control is large, where the buildings of the ministry are, where all that matters is to reflect the capital of a country, such as Serbia. The state of the country is also seen in this law. You brought the law yourself, you plead guilty. You accuse, as always, the innocent, and the budget remains empty. What happened in the meantime? Will all those who voted in favour of the previous law and admitted this mistake to make up for damages to Serbia's budget for those failures that could not be eliminated by that law because you did not want to accept amendments to the Serbian Radical Party? We were the only ones who talked about where the Luttria building, who was using it, how it was arranged, who is the master of the lottery of Serbia, where he is today, how he was rewarded. Mr Krasic spoke before me about it, not to repeat ourselves, but pay attention to what you write. Don't let those of you who think they're friends because they gave you a little money, be really friends until the campaign passes, and then fill, not the state budget, but the budget of your own company, in fact, the budget of your own pocket. Citizens have nothing to do with it. If you think it's the rescue of the state, which is why this law is passed by emergency procedure, filling the gambling budget, you're wrong. The rescue of the state was seen yesterday when a Serb in Kosovo and Metohija was killed, for no reason, and you are discussing who will fill the budget faster and in what way, about the small things, and what you need to discuss, the hall is empty to you, you are not interested in it. They're not your cousins, they're not your family, your colleagues weren't at risk to that extent so you could discuss it. It's not your budget that's compromised. Your life isn't at risk. Go to Kosovo and Metohija and ask if anyone will buy a lucky game or a lottery to fill out a lottery ticket or anything else. Solve problems that are essential to the state of Serbia, not people and Serbs killing down there, shoots armed mass, and Serbia has no reaction whatsoever. We worry about gambling, Mr. Novakovic, it is a complete shame for this current government and it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63144	That's the theme, Mr. Avramovicu. Thank you. By amendment, Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63145	Mr. Novakovic, not about the amendment, but I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 104, 107 and 27. You were obliged, as chairman, to give the disciplinary measure to Mrs. Kolundji for what she said. There have been serious insults in this congregation, but I claim that for these four years...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63146	Mr. Maric, the breach of the Rules of Procedure you point to has already been indicated. A complete explanation has been given. So, double speech, double stories, I don't allow anything in duplicate. As far as that goes, so much. If you have anything else, then I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63147	I'm talking about the amendment, so I'll explain what I said. Mrs. Kolundjia said: "He is an insult to himself and to all who look at him." If you think it doesn't deserve a warning, let it serve you honor. Fortunately, I realized that, speaking of me, Mrs. Kolundjia is thinking of herself. I said the following...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63148	Don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63149	I'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63150	Then connect everything you've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63151	Let me finish my sentence. So, the President of the Republic said in the election campaign that if the DS wins the election, they'll open 200,000 jobs...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63152	Mr. Maric, your amendment says the position of Article 22 is deleted. Do you have anything else to add, since you've been talking about that same amendment for nine minutes and 40 seconds? Don't, after the second warning to get back on the agenda, I have to do what none of us like. Anyone else want a word? The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63153	I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. This amendment, which has also caused some broader polemics, is in principle one of many who could be submitted to such a proposal for a law on gambling, because it only shows one general view of the SRS regarding such a legal solution and generally regarding some market conditions that exist in Serbia, and I mean a monopoly position, in particular the Serbian State lottery. Of course, we will all agree that the organisation of gambling is an act of public importance and that the general interest and the preparation of games is the right of the state and, in our particular case, it is the right to be transferred to the State Lottery of Serbia. What we wanted with this amendment and during that debate in principle to point out, first of all, to our colleagues in the National Assembly, and certainly to the public who is following the transmissions of the National Assembly meetings, is that clearly one very important fact is ignored, and that is that whoever earns from these prize games must also have a responsibility if something bad happens. When a certain number of years ago the law on gambling was passed, a lot of things happened in some bad direction. Today, at the end of 2011, and in the meantime we had a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Games on Happiness, it seems to me that we will again essentially not regulate the problems that are evident in this area. If there is a kind of objective responsibility and if it is well known in whose jurisdiction this problem is, i.e. the organisation of games and profits which and how it can be large from well-organised games, then there must be a regulated legal obligation and responsibility to bear consequences for all that happens. Of course, the basic problem in Serbia over the past decade is the fact that somehow this responsibility has lagged behind, not only when it comes to this area, but also many others, and there is no need to specifically remind the public of everything that has marked the past period, about various suspicious actions that have marked everything about gambling, and those famous SMS games of chance, etc., for those public talk of actually real winners and no, but for individuals to report and act to some extent winners for a significantly smaller amount of money than it has been officially announced. I say again, the result of all this is that practically there was never any responsibility. The only thing that happened was that about a month after the end of this famous RTS bidding, the State lottery said that it was due to its controls and methods against fraud, which, among other things, in the reasons for the adoption of this bill and said they were not exactly at the necessary level, that it revealed possible abuse when it comes to SMS games. The epilogue was the arrest of 14 people. What has the state done in terms of a quality legal solution? In principle, not a lot of things or, if I wanted to be more specific, practically nothing, because obviously these innovations that have been introduced into the new Bill of Games have practically come to a point where we will shut down the domestic gambling industries and as a consequence there will be a loss of a large number of jobs. The most drastic example of what can happen with some action if business conditions don't adapt to real circumstances are, among other things, the taboo, also in the jurisdiction that I was talking about, because the fact that there were only 300 years ago, and then the adoption of a new Law on Games on Happiness, which is still applicable, that number fell very quickly to all nine and, by all accounts, will not survive either. Of course, there is a problem or a question with people who were employed, who in these legal flows directed a certain part of their tax revenues by filling the Republic of Serbia's budget. We also pointed out in the debate in the principle that Serbia's state lottery is practically taking monopolies to attract certain types of games to happiness and to imprison some other types of games, practically only making it more difficult to place the perpetrators, constantly reducing business opportunities and the number of types of games that can be done. In fact, what is the significance of the other entrants to the revenue generated by the budget from the fees prescribed by the law on gambling, and ultimately, the proposer of this law points out that this legislation will, in this sense, lead to positive shifts, to an increase in revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget shows that, for example, last year, their participation amounted to 47% of the total income on that basis. If this fact is in mind, then it is certainly a logical question to impose, which is – why did these same people stay out of the process of making this new bill of gambling? In particular, this member we've been talking about now concerns the organisation of games of good luck through telecommunications. The public pictured it, but it was not burned once again that over the past six years, Serbia's state lottery has had a monopoly on the organisation of games fortunately through telecommunications. However, this right did not benefit, with damages from non-use on various grounds estimated at around 100m euros. then a year ago, this right was passed on to a foreign contractor, and in a way that is not typical of the president of the current regime, so it was not transparent, there was no competition, tender, the public remained conditions, and what is amazing is that domestic operators were not even informed, let alone that they were offered a certain type of co-operation. Now, in some ways, this monopoly is being formally reduced. However, the fundamental right to attract gambling online has been granted to the lottery without any conditions, or directly, while for all others it will be subsequently prescribed. Also, what I would like to say is that this tax rate is drastically different, because it is prescribed at five percent for casino games that the lottery already takes to co-operate with foreign companies, and even 15% for sports betting, which is also another inappropriate and unrecorded case in world practice. This law has basically been brought into the context of taxation. This now raises a simple question – will these revenues that will increase on the name of taxation, as you claim, through this law on gambling, whether the increase in revenue next year will be enough to cover even some basic things in the budget of a type of exchange rate difference or not know what, which are paid on a variety of basis from the budget? After all, what are the revenues that the state will make through this law in the first place? I guess that's something that's normal and logical when proposing the law, the bidder also delivers that kind of analysis. Essentially, I will repeat the position of the SRS, for any benefit and effect of such a law on gambling, I think that essential citizens, even those on the market in this area, will not have, except perhaps even harm, because they will be further taxed. What I would still like in this time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group to point out is the fact that, in addition to the expansion of the monopoly, it is obvious that the illogical and most drastic change in the proposal for a law on gambling is the new system of taxis and fees and tax burdens, because so far it has not happened in any action that one regulation increases fees or fees three times, as is the case with this. Here are concrete examples. The rate of sports betting fee increased from 5% to 15%, which, with a changed tax base, makes it an increase of real 50%. At the same time, the second completely illogical provision is that each counter is specifically taxed as a payment-paying place, as a separate place, not as a whole bookie as a payout place, which is otherwise a world practice. Given that there are average two counters in these bookies, it is calculated to be an increase of about 200% and together with this previous provision about 300%. What, then, is the consequence of a law like this that I assume will be passed by the ruling majority? It is that the editors will be forced to reduce the number of counters, to fire extra workers, to drastically reduce speed, and thus also the quality of service, i.e. comfort players. Of these unsatisfactory provisions, only state, fired workers and disgruntled service users can have damage. I am still trying, but I am unable to find out what will be the positive effects of the gambling law, and in particular it does not seem to be what it is - that it will contribute to raising the level of social responsibility and even those European directives, which you are very often referring to. I would like to know if there are any regulations in the EU that could be the basis for violations of regulations and rights guaranteeing the freedom of entrepreneurship. Obviously, such a legal provision is exactly what is being done. I just mentioned games of luck via SMS and SMS lottery. What I am now interested in as a citizen is whether there is in some way a mechanism and whether it could have been incorporated into this bill, a mechanism that would allow all direct players to realize how much they have collected, or what are the rules of the game under which such lottery takes place. It is totally unacceptable to bring such a solution, which apparently goes only to the harm of those involved in gambling. The goal is only to increase the share of taxes, to increase the income of organisers, but people say, the damage of players is increased, by affecting the state and those involved in organising these games. And in the end, the law itself contains neither justice nor logic. He's motivated to keep the state to himself most of what players are investing in or those who want to gamble, and unfortunately, more and more in this country. I think that at this point it is unacceptable to adopt such a bill especially that it will obviously not correct the many shortcomings it has shown before and I do not think it will solve, or that it will certainly not raise the level of social responsibility for all those problems that we are facing both as a state and as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-10-0.u63154	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and no one is answering for a word. The 71st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment in the same text, MP Djordje Milicevic and MP Vuk Dincic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic to Article 96. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment in the same text, MP Djordje Milicevic and MP Vuk Dincic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 131st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is what we've done today's work. We will continue our work on Monday, November 14, 2011 at 10:00 p.m. Have a nice weekend and thank you for your cooperation.
