ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54813	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. After we have established the quorum and after the President of the National Assembly has set a break in the work so that MPs will participate in the public hearing organised by the Committee on Justice and Management on the draft law on the financing of political activities, we continue the work. On the basis of Article 286(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. it is the right of Members of Parliament to request notice and explanation, and on the basis of Article 286 of Article 1 which states that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which is necessary for the exercise of their functions. This right can also be exercised at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54814	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to address the question, i.e. ask Minister Ciric's notice, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, has he so far prepared an answer to the question I have asked several times, and it says: what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in particular, what has made his ministry reduce the unemployment rate in Novi Pazar, which is close to 50%? He only this morning, visiting the "morning programme" said the most difficult situation in Novi Pazar was. I'm asking him to let me know if the government has done some kind of emergency program, some action plan to cut the unemployment rate in this area. Meanwhile, there are other things that are making our way to the EU more difficult. These days, we are witnessing information coming from Brussels, which is that we have come in danger of being "schengen", which is allowed, or a visa regime that was provided to us a few months ago, abolished for citizens of Serbia, since we have a high rate of asylum in the countries of the Schengen Treaty. One of our citizens comes from Sandzak; most of them are economic asylum seekers. For this reason, in fact, it is necessary that the Government of the Republic of Serbia urgently do something similar to what it is already doing in Bor, Kragujevac, Kursumlia, in other parts of the Republic of Serbia, in order to resolve this difficult economic situation in Novi Pazar and Sandzak. Last time I told Mr. Ciric that the concept of unemployment in our area has two sides: one side is that we do not have new employment; on the other hand, we have a difficult problem, and that is a high job closure rate. That's why I suggested to Mr. Ciric and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, since we can't already hire new ones, we help those who are already hiring... I specifically suggested that companies in Novi Pazar who employ more than 50 people get 1,000 euros per employee not to fire more workers by 31 December. So we have two problems: one problem is that we don't hire new ones, but the rate of those who are being fired is now constantly increasing. The key thing is that when you bring in an economic measure, you follow that measure. The government has measures to give every company that employs someone in the area of production 10,000 euros in Novi Pazar. That goes for Zaječar and a couple of other municipalities. But we saw that this measure did nothing to reduce the unemployment rate in the New Market. That's the measure we need to revise, and we need to bring a new measure. A new measure would be to give those who are now hiring people in New Pazar and Sandzak that in a certain number of months... This, of course, should be a limited measure, until we see whether foreign companies will come and the employment rate increases. At least those who are working now need to be supported by this financial measure in order not to fire workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54815	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic. First, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54816	Compared to Article 27, this is practically a suggestion. There's a game on the second channel instead of transmissions. We have one deal, as you told us, about how and at what rate we're going to work. The transmission will probably be established after that game. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't do the same, simply adapt to RTS transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54817	The official notice of RTS is that we'll be in direct transmission, and I expect us to engage at any moment. There may be some movement, given that we will have a regular break from 14 to 15 hours, and this part of the session will be in that session, and later we are in direct transmission, if the game is extended. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54818	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament and all citizens of Serbia who, I hope, will see and hear what I want to ask, I will try to request an answer in five minutes, or a notice that I think is of great interest to many citizens. The first question is for Mr. Stankovic, Minister of Health. I want to remind all those who watched yesterday's television that we saw an item that's sad and just amazing, it's incubators for premature children. We've seen how in some improvised nurses and drivers carry children up the stairs of a hospital where the elevators don't work, the driver carries a bottle, probably with oxygen. We've received information that these incubators are 35 years old, that there are no parts to repair, that there are no testicles at all. I would not speak of the moral side of this problem, therefore, that in Serbia, where the white plague rules, we behave like this, the state, the ministry, the health minister, according to premature children who need to have a chance to live their lives normally, which requires new incubators. I would like to remind all citizens and Mr. Minister Stankovic that in this Assembly during the reconstruction of the government and after that, he made great promises to come out to the citizens and tell the truth about what is going on in the health system. I want to remind the citizens and the minister that we recently didn't have rabies vaccines in Kursumlia and that we all waited together for some inspections and laboratories to say whether the dogs that bit the citizens were infected or not. Luckily, they weren't. I would like to remind you that someone has said that at any time the state of Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia, needs about 200 doses of rabies vaccine. I would like to remind you that I have not received an answer, and the citizens of Serbia, what has been done with a million vaccines that have been obtained for the fictional so-called so-called so-called vaccine. Pig flu, which has been paid 18,000,000 euros. We all need to put our finger on the forehead, Madam President. Someone took a sevenm-euro commission, someone spent eighteenm euros on vaccines that had expired long ago, and we didn't get a notice of what was done with them, and there's no funds for incubators for premature children. I want a quick answer from Mr. Stankovic to say what will be done by the Ministry, Government, state in the procurement of new incubators for prematurely born children in our country? The second question is for Mr Cvetkovic's finance minister. The issue has already been raised several times in this House, as far as the New Serbia parliamentary group is concerned, but we have not received that answer. So the question is: how do funds are spent, how does the government spend funds from positions held by ministries that have been abolished by the government's reconstruction? I understand if one ministry, even, is connected to another ministry, even though I don't think that could have been done without rebalancing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... I will specifically ask Mr Cvetkovic – how much money was there in the position of the Ministry of the NIP on the day of the government's reconstruction, the vote of a new, reconstructed government in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? How many of those were there? Where are those funds? By what law, by what decision of the government, and how are they spent? I repeat, how many funds, or money, were there at the NIP position? Where are these funds located? By whose decision are they spent and by whose law? The New Serbia party and we New Serbia MPs claim that these funds are being illegally spent because they did not go beyond control in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. it was not a rebalancing. It is also known by the smallest municipality, as a territorial local self-government, that no money can be spent by the mayor or by the president of a municipality without rebalancing in these city or municipal congregations. So much more, I ask the question how is this possible when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget? The only competent institution in which he can be approved and voted is the National Assembly; there was no budget rebalance in the National Assembly. That's why I'm asking this series of questions to Mr. Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54819	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54820	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, last night, as probably a good part of you, with the permission of the women's family, I wanted to enjoy a sports event, a football match between Partizan and Vojvodina in the finals of the Cups of the Republic of Serbia. I personally expected a knight's fight, a return of trust in football and sports at all. This question applies in some way to the departments of sports, police, justice, but I would say to the whole society. I was counting on the laws we've adopted here to a good degree to make it impossible for the hooligans to spoil the good sports events. It seemed that way. The police did their part of the job; there were no more significant incidents before and during the game. But everything else was a shame, a shame for society in general, a shame for football, for sport at all. I wonder, what's the problem? I think the problem is in football clubs, in football alliances, from the lowest rank to the top. There's been a lot of trouble here. The residue is deep and layered, full of blurry faces, murky business and cloudy capital. This event last night is not just a threat to football and sports at all, this event last night deeply endangers society in general. So it's a danger to society as a whole. That is why I believe that all those in charge of this area, and I believe that we are all in charge -- from us MPs, ministers and all those who work with young generations, people who run sports... So these are threatened and honored, and honesty, and social morality and this can have repercussions to society in general. My question is, what can the National Assembly do? It's a matter for the ministries. What other law would it be to pass, if we were to complete legislation in this area, to prevent such events from happening in the future and to keep young people engaged in sports, with a lot of desire to succeed and compete with each other rather than with some higher and blurry characters? I'm telling the young people that they should continue to play sports and not give up on sports. I hope that the uncles sitting in the lodges yesterday (and sitting in the lodges so far) have nothing to do with sports and that they should not sit there and run those clubs. Sooner or later, I'm telling young people this, they're gonna have to pay their bills. I'm ordering young people to play sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54821	Thank you. MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54822	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days and weeks from the Serbian government, we have received information that the government has made a decision to link workers to social and state-owned enterprises who have not been paid labour contributions in the past seven years. We from the Liberal Democratic Party can understand the government's need to help this vast group of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which, in her opinion, has about 100,000, but we also have to show concern for that kind of economy, especially small privates, private entrepreneurs, who today are trying to survive on the market without any help from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We from the Liberal Democratic Party are looking forward to an announcement coming from the ministries in recent days, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a decision to limit the time limit for payment of commitments, especially the state, or state-owned enterprises. We of the LDP have proposed this decision, that is, the bill a few months ago, when we adopted our programme that represents an agreement for a turnaround, where we also said that it is necessary for these obligations that state-owned enterprises and states have towards private entrepreneurs to limit themselves to 60 days. Because what it represents today, we can freely say, one of the cancer-early economic policy in Serbia, that is the constant indifference caused by the non-payment of obligations, particularly those that the state has. According to some data, this non-payment reaches up to 130 days, on average. Also, we can also support a reduction in the income tax that the government says will adopt, but we are interested in whether this reduction in the income tax will apply only to newly opened jobs or to those currently employed? We think it's very important for a small economy, especially for those privates and private entrepreneurs who have a problem with inequity. The problem of indifference is caused by a late payment of earnings, a late payment of liabilities to the tax administration; worst of all, it is a constantly bewitched round of payment of mutual obligations. I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the work of individual inspections, and I am particularly thinking of an inspection for work that is actually used as a "partial whip" in punishing those private entrepreneurs, those companies that do not respect the will of the ruling parties either at the local, or at the republican level. We fear that this "partial whip" in the form of inspectors, or inspectors for work, can turn into a chronic phenomenon, which will prevent normal business. We think the government has to do something in the next period. Perhaps the best example for this is Novi Pazar and Sandzak, where these very inspectors are used to discipline small entrepreneurs, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to recruit them in favour of projects that are important for certain local self-government or ruling coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54823	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54824	I have a few questions for the government. Since the "Telecom" story failed, fortunately, because the government was not in a position to sell Telecom at the price it had imagined, and which today has been proven unfair, or unfair, from the point of view of the state's need, as this job failed, I would like to ask if the Government, in this amended composition, was thinking about getting us out of here as soon as possible with a proposal for budget rebalance? Because, according to what we have heard or read in the papers so far, the development of events is not such that the realisation of this budget could be sustainable. That's my first question. Since I don't have to use all five minutes to ask questions, I'm going to ask another one right now, it won't take more than a minute. It concerns the pressure coming from Brussels and certain EU countries on the possible withdrawal of the visa-free regime for Serbia, when it comes to false asylum seekers. The first question would be - what would the competent authorities of the MUP and in general the Serbian government do to remove the obstacle? That's probably what Serbian citizens are interested in most. The second question, according to what we saw again in the media, the reactions, including the president's reaction, were incredible and somewhat foolish. We received a warning from Brussels and about some informal instruction as to what should be done as a state to prevent it, and some authorities and representatives of the ruling coalition have made statements that claim that we are happily prepared to do just that, as we are prepared in all other cases. These proposals coming from Brussels are such that they will not be implemented on the territory of their countries but in Serbia's territory and involve a certain violation of human rights, discrimination on the principle of nationality. It also contains a proposal that police authorities, borderline, do a job that is absolutely impossible in a democratic state – to take on more arbitration than is allowed. For this there are other alternative measures that the state can take, which can be effective. I wonder if anyone can write to me in their answer what these are measures and what can we expect?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54825	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, my question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Trade, Mr Petrovic. In the last two or three years, registered agricultural holdings have received 14,000 dinars per hectare of farmland. I'd formulate the question at the end, and I'd give you some opening part. You know that agriculture is the only branch of the economy that brings surplus into the Republic of Serbia's budget; it is now, for May and early May, over a billion dollars. This is due to the very registered agricultural holdings by their perseverance, despite all the difficulties. When I talk about difficulties, I think about the economic problems the Serbian agrarian has, i.e. farmers. Every year, by March 31st, a seed plan is submitted where the surfaces are inserted, how many registered agricultural holdings have hectares. To achieve these 14,000 dinars, they are also obliged to file for diesel, seed and fertilizer bills. Automaticly, via the Agency for Agricultural Payments, which is located in Šapac, 30% for diesel, how much is filed (it is known that 60 liters per hectare, times 122 dinars and 40 pairs, does not matter), returns. Farmers should have already gotten it, or registered agricultural land, but none of it is important to them so far. No hints, no regulation. The minister says he will announce May 14th, probably at the opening of the New Sad Agricultural Fair, but no mention of 14,000 dinar subsidies per hectare is made, not to mention anywhere in which he will announce the return of 30% of these diesel fuel funds per hectare. It is a burning problem, it is an acute problem created in the agrarian and such a difficult situation as the Serbian agrarian is now in. My question is, again, to the Prime Minister of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Trade Mr Petrovic – will the registered agricultural holding be realised, and when will the subsidies that follow him in 2011, 14,000 dinars per hectare, plus the refund of diesel funds? Once again, I ask the above ones to whom I have referred this parliamentary question to get an answer as quickly as possible. Not me, Milorad Krstin, but those who led this country to have over a billion-dollar surplus, which is registered agricultural holdings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54827	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word in accordance with Article 286? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Nikola Krpic, Sasa Dujovic and Miletic Mihajlovic. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mr Milos Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54828	Thank you. We didn't arrive yesterday, here we are today, so there is a law before us on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. To shorten the story, here is a new one, there are three groups of provisions, in short, which are newspapers: the first refers to the way in which the National Assembly's mandate is assigned, so when the elections end, how the mandates are assigned; the second one concerns the position of the less represented sex in parliament; the third segment, this is the famous abolition of the blank resignations that are trying to enforce the law here. As far as the mandate is concerned, we have so far had the so-called open-list system for the political party, which means that the political party with a list of 250 names could, after the elections have been completed, have determined the total number of seats in the Assembly, that it assigns these mandates to MPs from the list, regardless of the position these MPs are in. On the one hand, it was good for individual political parties because in this way, a very logical way, they could reward those MPs who participated in the elections and thanks to whose efforts in a particular part of Serbia, the particular region, the political party achieved a good result. This could have been one of the criteria for many political parties to compose parliament's composition in this way. With these changes, that possibility is lost, it no longer exists. There's a possibility that something else could possibly be done, but it's blocked by these changes. I'm going to say one more thing about that, just to say something about the essence of the proposal itself. The Democratic Party of Serbia is not against closing a list of political parties. We don't think it's a catastrophic thing. It is, after all, in line with certain directives and standards from Europe, I will not say the EU on purpose because these standards are older than the Union itself as a whole, and we do not think that this is an incorrect measure. However, in order for the party to respond adequately, there must be a certain corrective mechanism. We have thrown this corrective mechanism out of the bill by the way that the law is technically written. You had a situation where whoever assigned the mandate to the MP, whether it was the RIK or the political party, had to accept the mandate, explicitly and openly, with his statement. There's no such thing here. This corrective measure is necessary. Basically, we have nothing against it, because the Democratic Party of Serbia has regulated the area internally with its statute and respects the order on the list when granting its mandate. All our mandates in parliament are now the result of the order on the list and so will be the future; even if the law had not been amended in this part, so would the rest. As for the question of the less-represented sex, I will not waste time on it because we agree with the changes given and we believe that they are absolutely in line with democratic standards. But what causes attention, suspicion, and in some ways the revolt of a part of a serious democratic public, it is a question of how to abolish so-called. Blanco's leftovers. Blanko's resignations were introduced in 2006 by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in such a way as to determine the possibility in Article 102, but not the obligation, that the MP, who has a free term (so defined), may, thanks to his right to have a mandate, also be entrusted to his own political party. So he can, and he doesn't have to. What it later produced in practice, we all know. The reasons for such a decision were that most of the political parties involved in the creation of the text proposal, in fact that certain tycoons had tried to buy money in parliament before, formed a parliamentary club without participation in the elections. In a young democracy, in hunting relations, when there are no fixed patterns of the political system that we've all been used to for decades, this was a natural and specific defence of the state against that kind of trade. What was that supposed to mean? We've defended several targets, objects. The first object of protection is the electoral will of citizens, because the mandate, I remind you, is neither my political party nor my political party; this mandate on the basis of which I speak today is the mandate of citizens. That's what we all forget. That's something we absolutely have to keep in mind. Citizens voted in this kind of electoral law where we have parties that were elected on one list, for political programmes and political parties. I'm like an MP who's been elected by these citizens on the obligation to respect that above all. The second goal is to prevent corruption and trading in mandates. That's what I just said. Someone once tried to buy a parliamentary club on the side, and it had to be brutally prevented. Three, we need to strengthen democratic institutions in Serbia. Apart from the state government institutions, we have political parties, without which there is no democratic order in mass democracy. Of course, beyond that, we can discuss the categorization of the free term. What have we got from the European Union? We have been ordered from the European Union to give up practical realization and the possibility of entrusting the mandate to our own party, who will then dispose of it because it allegedly does not comply with democratic standards. We have received from the European Commission a text in which, unequivocally, it clearly states that the provision of the Constitution, Article 102, does not comply with democratic standards and that it should therefore be amended. That's what it says there. But let's see who this applies to and what the practice is in the world, and what it means to you in a specific case. It is not impossible for Serbia to get even worse warrants, an even dumber place in this communication, if we ourselves are set up to take men and punches. The reason for what has now been done to us and why all this seems to be lies in the way the provision is implemented and that it is respected in the Serbian Parliament and the extent to which it challenges conflicts that are visible outside, are visible to the citizens of Serbia and are also visible to the members of the European Commission, who sit all the time in Belgrade. If we were able to make a circus out of this congregation for three years, if the element of that circus was also a debate about the blank abandonment, then it's normal to call on someone to salt our brains. If we had already summoned him, we could have known in advance how to salt our brains. The question of a free term is one theoretical question. It was first created in the theoretical books of those who followed a particular ideology, and then found their confirmation in political practice in certain countries, similar to the communist dogma, where Marks and Engels first wrote something, then Lenin wrote a book, and then tried what was written to implement political practice on the coat of arms of the people. That's what you do today in certain systems. These systems may have their positive side, and they may have negative ones, on the other hand. Why is the idea of an absolutely free mandate not being forced into the old members of the European Union? Because it's impossible. Where are they making a new experiment? They are experimenting in the Member States of the European Union that have just arrived, not to the end of them, but to those who desire it, on those who put their heads on a log to ask them to do so, as is the case with us. In Bulgaria, in the Constitution, you have a provision that absolutely excludes an imperative mandate, which promotes a free mandate, and then, in business provisions, you have certain measures that prevent the trading of mandates in parliamentary benches. No one tells them anything about it. They do not have any additional conditions to lift such a thing so that they can function further in the EU, but that is why we have it, because we deserve it by our own behaviour. That's the essence of the story. There's never been a debate here about whether Article 102 is stupid or not. If everyone agreed that she was stupid because it was badly formulated, then the consequence should be to open a debate about how to change her. If there's a consensus on it, let's all vote to change it. But there is no consensus on this, at least as far as the DSS is concerned, that the constitution is being changed for why, to end Serbia through changes in the constitution. The fear of it, based on the announcements we've heard in public, is enormous. For this reason, it is an exceptional risk for us to go into any form of change in the Constitution for other reasons, not for whether or not Article 102 would have changed. It's your most honest and open story about it. What's next in the world? The issue of a free term, since the theoretical issue is a newer date, failed (because ideologically based) to challenge a serious and true scientific theory of politics and political systems, began since Max Weber, who said there was absolutely no free mandate in mass democracy, that he was completely incompatible with mass democracy. How do you think citizens vote for political parties as institutions of the political system if that citizen doesn't know or can't imagine what will happen to his election will for four years, when it comes to the political option he has chosen? That's impossible. If the mandate were absolutely free, how is it possible that in Germany, at a time when the parties had or today have a thin majority in Bundestag, the laws go with two or three votes, and always with so many, and no one jumps off the train? How is that possible? What, they freely decided, from two or three political parties in the coalition, that this law had grown to everyone's heart and that they loved to vote in favour of the German government's proposals? It's not true, but there are rules to the game. No one jumps off the train. For what? For their sake – yes, but also for the citizens who chose them, because they know that their mandate is citizens, not theirs. What are the measures that contribute to this? Different. In Spain, there is not a single provision of a constitution or law that determines that the mandate belongs to a political party, but rather, it is completely free, but there is a social agreement between all the political parties in Spain, which is twenty years old. We never had a "flight" in the Spanish parliament. Because it's public, it's also public because the whole society is behind it. There is not a whole society here, there are no political parties in Serbia behind certain principles. That's the essence of the story today. That's why we have everything we have. That's why this freakic provision of this bill appears here. We have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has streamlined one possibility, and you are completely blocking it by the provision of this law – it is impossible, it is unconstitutional – calling at the same time in this debate by the motionors and representatives of the motion that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court. Now, listen, let me teach you something about the right and way of interpreting the Constitutional Court's decisions, if you didn't know that, which is that every decision of the Constitutional Court is an act for itself and a source of justice just for that situation. There is no possibility for the legislator and for people who apply regulations to interpret decisions and explanations of decisions of the Constitutional Court by applying them to other situations. If the provision of Article 5x of the law falls, it applies only to that provision of the law. End of story. There is no way that in an argument to amend this law to give an explanation that will be said – you know, we abolish the blank resignation because the Constitutional Court said so. That's not true. That's a lie. That's definitely a lie. Just because it's a lie doesn't even stand for that wonderful explanation from the beginning of the discussion, which said that, among other things, the reason for the adoption of this law is the need to comply with the Serbian Constitution. Oh, yes, for certain provisions it's true (we read what we get), but for this provision it's not true. This provision violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Venice Commission, which was mentioned in some public debate before the debate, reportedly interpreted by members of the ruling coalition, said Serbia should do this. That's not true either. That's a disgusting lie! They said that Article 102. The constitution is not good. Anyone can see on the Internet what the Venice Commission says. Article 102. The constitution is not good, so they recommend us, recommend that we do not rush to the implementation of Article 102. The constitution of the electoral law, i.e. that we do not change the electoral law if we intend, according to their recommendation, to amend Article 102. The Constitution. That's all they said. Don't make it up to the citizens of Serbia to tell the truth about what the Venice Commission said. As for the blank resignations, the Venice Commission didn't ask us to do this. If the state later asked the Venice Commission if we were doing what we're doing right now, the answer would be, of course, negative, because there are no fools there, but they would say – people, you're not normal, we told you that we don't like the provision of a member of the Constitution that you have, you don't care, and you decided to break the legislation of that Article 102. The Constitution. How is that possible? How can we do that? In democracy, it's not possible, of course. Let me get back to the question of applying my free term. The free term, or mandate for a political party, where the political party and elected MP are best read, has the countries of the Commonwealth above all. Later, the UK abolished this because it had no direct need, because of the nature and manner of choice in the country. There, in effect, an MP is elected to the constituency, one against one, who wins the parliament. There's another way for citizens to handle it on their own. Where there are proportional systems in the Commonwealth countries, there are everywhere, without exception, even in certain regions of Canada, an MP related to a political party and there are provisions that sanction "fleeing", leaving one parliamentary group to another. In all the countries of Commonwealth. All of it. You have countries, if we're going to name countries of Asia, which aren't countries of Commonwealth, with strange names, and here some of them are caused by disgust, I'm not going to cite them, or the countries of Africa... Okay, that's not the top of democracy in the world, but what are we going to do with the member states of the European Union? What are we going to do with Article 160 point (c) of the Constitution of Portugal, which stipulates that MPs will lose their mandate? Among other things, it is said -- it will lose the term of office if they register as party members other than the one they advocated in the elections. It is written in the Portuguese Constitution and applied directly. No mother has moved it from one parliamentary group to another in Portugal since she has been a member of the EU to this day. The country is given money to save the European Union when in crisis, but it is an old member of the EU and Portugal no one in Brussels will say anything. Now we return to the beginning of the story – why are they telling us and not telling them? Because we're new, we're new, because one system like the EU needs evening in an experiment that works and not a Javilu. Javaschluk cannot cure among the Member States, but they can therefore establish rules for those who are coming. I repeat, this situation we're in is our own fault. No one would mention any blank resignations, no mandates that this constitutional provision here has been realised in a decent and normal manner since the beginning of this term and that no dust has been lifted. If we were to blow up that kind of thing, those who were to blow up should know what this was all about. For this responsibility is borne by the ruling majority who has been educated in parliament rather than by opposition groups, regardless of how anyone interprets it. Now we're in the situation we're in. What you suggested, I am deeply convinced, is absolutely legally impossible. And are we as DSS ready to discuss a possible change that would bring some other measure of protection without that so-called. Blanco's resignation? Yes, we're ready. We are ready to talk, as members of this society, as a political party that is registered, which has a certain legitimacy in the people, we are ready to talk about different modes. That's not controversial. But that conversation must be such as to convince us that this is really a problem and that this problem must then be solved in another way. Uh, the way you guys work, it doesn't matter. This just shows your own incompetence, shows you don't know where you hit. Secondly, you eventually called on the government's Action Plan as a reason to bring this. I'm sorry, please, you brought this today and you're going to bring this election law, and then you're going to re-adopt the changes and the additions in September and October because you haven't solved the key problems you've been complaining about here, because you haven't had time. That's really not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54829	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(2), we will be working until the end of the agenda and after 1800 hours. I'm setting a 60-minute break. So at 14.50 we'll start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54830	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. The day-to-day part of the session ran in accordance with the Rules of Procedure's right to be given to the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54831	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members of the People, I hope that the mandated promoter will be here soon, and I would like to say a few things about what we are discussing today, the amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, because I had the opportunity yesterday afternoon and today in this short time before the break to hear the arguments of fellow Members of the People's Parliament and for and against these changes. I will remind all of us that even earlier, the European Commission and the European Parliament have also pointed out that blanco resignations are not in line with European standards, that the European Commission has pointed out this in an annual report on Serbia's 2010 progress, and that the European Parliament put this in a resolution on Serbia that was adopted in January of this year. Furthermore, the questionnaire on which the European Commission will assess whether Serbia is ready to get membership candidate status raises the question of how to address the problem of the blank resignations. In response, it was stated that the blank resignations were not regulated by law, but that it was about the practice that the parties themselves introduced. Here, I'll quote a line from the answer. One who read the answers to the questionnaire and members of the Committee on European Integration could see for themselves. It is said: “As blanco resignations are not a legal category, their abolition is not a question of revising legislation and repealing the provisions that regulate it, because they do not exist. ” It is also said that the Constitution of Serbia provides that an MP can, under the conditions provided for by law, unrevocably place his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose MP is. These conditions, however, are not defined by law. They weren't defined even when we passed the Constitution, they weren't defined until today. Furthermore, the Action Plan to gain membership candidate status, which our government has brought, is not about blank resignations, but about party control over mandates. Why did I say all this? There was a misunderstanding about how to end something that didn't exist. Blanko resignations were never laid down in any law; they were put only in the Constitution, and not under that name, but in Article 102. The constitution – the right of MPs to place their mandate at the disposal of the political party from whose lists he has been elected. Then we were all in a dilemma about how this institute, which doesn't exist, was abolished. One of the solutions, which has been applied in this House's assembly, is to break up with this bad practice, so no blank resignation has been activated. This had good and bad consequences: for some parties it was bad, for some of the new parties it was good because they kept their parliamentary mandates without a vote. There were misunderstandings and dilemmas among those we call independent analysts, guardians of our morals. I'd only quote two. For example, Vladimir Goati shows that the abolition of the blanco resignation is of particular importance to the fight against corruption, because the blank resignations exist in China, India, Nigeria, Vietnam and similar countries. Milan Nikolic, on the other hand, says that after the suspension of the blanco resignation parliament will become a flea market where lawmakers will be bought, sold, whatever, and cites an example of the Czech Republic's parliament in which it happens regularly. When you have such opposing views of our professional public, who generally thinks that the political parties are the source of all evils in society and that, if at all possible, they should be abolished, what will be the political parties, and if you have, on the other hand, the European Commission and the European Parliament, who say that the mandate should not belong to political parties, but to MPs, and on the third hand, if you have a proportional system in Serbia, which is one electoral unit, where the parties or coalitions go out, where citizens vote not for individuals but for the parties or for the lists, then we were all in a dilemma on how to solve this problem. These solutions offered in the amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs are in line with the observations it has made to us, and which will cease to guide after this, the European Commission. That's right. What consequences this will have on political life in Serbia, we will see. Some say the parties should try to send their best people to parliament. Each party is trying to do so, but it is not a guarantee that the best people, who are there and which the party has sent to parliament, will remain in the parliamentary group. The fact is that it will now be much easier to pass without any sanctions on to another parliamentary group, to be independent MPs, and it would be moral – and moral and politics should not be talked about, it is a different and long story – it would be fair, let's say, to return the mandate to the foreigners through which they entered parliament. I don't think that's going to happen, because even when we tried to limit some solutions to an MP who left one parliamentary group of opportunities to become independent, to move on to another parliamentary group, to form with similar independent MPs his MP group, we are told again that it does not comply with European standards. I really don't know what the European standard defines, because even in the material that we have received in the end, it says that there is no European regulation that harmonizes this. There's only good and bad practice. What practice we've been applying so far, that time will again show. Was it a good practice that once a blank resignation was activated and that it would be a good practice to now, even formally, end them in this way, by defining the way an MP can resign, and that no one else can do it for him, will show time. I don't think everything's going to go smoothly and we need to wait four years for voters to punish an MP who's from one political party, from one of the MPs' clubs to another. Everything remains at the parties again, how they will arrange, which people will send to parliament. Remember, some people didn't have enough swearing in church. At us in the United Regions of Serbia, in the G17 plus and in "Together for the Forest" there will be no other partners to join the United Regions of Serbia, oaths in the church, but there will still be no guarantee that all the best people will be in parliament and that all of them can stay in one parliamentary group. I think that goes for other parties, too. It has not been so far in parliamentary practice since 2000 until today that no party has ever gone to another parliamentary club. I agree with my colleague Aligrudic, who spoke about the reasons why blanco resignations were introduced. Did the tycoons try to buy some MPs? That's right. In the case of my party, it was not the tycoons, he was the former party president who tried to build a parliamentary club with his former party. So the reasons are different. Those blanco resignations were introduced into the extortion, and now in the extortion, we end them with this. How much, as I said, will affect further political life in Serbia, we will see. In any case, we'll support the abolition of the blank resignation. We think that time has run them over and that this bad practice needs to be stopped. The second to which amendments and additions to this Law on the selection of Members of the People are concerned are those closed lists. So far, the lists, the lists handed over for the elections, have been open to parties and closed to voters. Now the thing is, now the lists are closed to the parties, and the sausages are open to voters. Neither can anyone convince me that every single voter will take a list of 250 people, look at the order and say, yes, that's it, that's the people we vote for. No, it's usually the leader's vote, the list holder's vote, the party's vote. It's rare to vote for individuals. In fact, in this country, the only person for whom citizens vote directly and who has citizens' votes is the President of the Republic. No more citizens are elected directly, either at a local or at a republican level. Why am I saying this? Because I think this change is cosmetic, it's not essential, but it's going to cause another problem to anyone but the parties. The question of motivation is a serious issue for every political party. Nor will they be motivated, let's say, if we appreciate winning, not to exaggerate, 30 seats in the next election, those first thirty. What will be their motive when they're safe? The others, who will be their motive to participate, to fight for votes, when they know they won't have a chance to enter parliament? This means that all parties, who are the only ones here who articulate the political interests of citizens and the only ones coming out, are participating in the elections, through which citizens have their own representatives in parliament. The solution is in the next steps. I take this as an interregion precisely because it is an interregion. We will support this interrelationship, but we need an agreement on whether or not we are going to change the electoral law, whether we are going to change the electoral system, whether we are going to change the political system, whether we are going to change the Constitution. Of course, the Constitution should not be changed simply because of Article 102 or I do not know which member was referring to the number of Members. Constitutional changes are not brought about by such issues, constitutional changes are entered when consensus is reached between parties on much larger issues which have turned out to be not good enough in the existing Constitution. These are all some questions and dilemmas that remain for a future time. I truly deeply believe that we need a change in the electoral system, that we need the personalisation of candidates, that we need citizens to identify themselves with candidates, not only with the policy that a party represents, and that this is something that they didn't want us to do, in the future, surely waiting for us. To repeat, the United Regions Parliamentary Club of Serbia will support these amendments and additions to the Law on the election of MPs in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54832	Thirteen minutes and fifteen seconds have been used since the deputy president's time. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if there is any point in criticising this bill, since Mrs Susana Grubjesic has already done so. The only thing I don't understand is how they can vote for something that clearly doesn't comply with their political beliefs, but that's how it usually happens when your heart is on one side, and your mind, and you have to do it because someone told you it's the right thing to do. What about this bill? First, the bill is unconstitutional. Article 2 The bill is contrary to Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 52 says: "Every adult, commercially competent citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to choose and be chosen. “ This is Article 52(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 2 relating to Article 10. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs says something else: "The right to choose an MP and be elected a full-time business citizen of the Republic of Serbia with a residence in the Republic of Serbia." Anyone who has read any constitutional law textbook knows that the law cannot prescribe additional conditions for a right beyond those prescribed by the Constitution. If the Constitution does not seek residence for the use of electoral law, then how can the law prescribe something that does not appear in the Constitution? That's the first remark. The second remark concerns the suspension of Article 102(2) of this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 102 states that the MP is free to make his or her mandate, under the conditions laid down in the law, available to the political party whose electoral lists he has been elected as a MP. What does this bill make? It is not the conditions under which this freedom can be used, but that freedom is abolished. I am now asking the legislators: what if I, as a People's MP, (no one makes me, that's my will), to show, say, loyalty to the Serbian Radical Party and to the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, to put a mandate at the disposal of my political party? How am I supposed to do that when the law makes it impossible for me, and the Constitution gives me that freedom? The Constitution gives me freedom, and the law abolishes that freedom! Instead of prescribing the conditions under which I can put my mandate at the disposal of a political party, the law tells me – no, you cannot use the freedom that the Constitution has given you. This is the second unconstitution contained in this bill. I find it really funny that Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija said the Constitutional Court said that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was not constitutional and that is why we have to change Article 84. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. Apparently, the constitution states that mandates are assigned in a row of candidates on election lists submitted by political parties. It's all nice, I'm just asking you what member? It doesn't say anything. You made that up. What is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia for? To make decisions by order. Mrs. Nada Kolundji, as a proposing representative, was likely ashamed to say that the law was passed under political pressure from the European Union. In order not to say so, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia's decision, which allegedly interpreted it as a member of 84, has been ordered. The law on the election of MPs unconstitutional. Well, if Vlasi didn't know, we say -- not because of the European Union, but because the Constitutional Court said that Article 84 is not constitutional, so we approach the amendments to this law. What the proposing representative said was, on the one hand, the result of elementary political ignorance, ignorance of constitutional and political systems, and, on the other hand, of legal and political counterfeits. Serbian citizens have been bombarded for months with information that an MP is completely free in the European Union, that he has nothing to do with the political party that has run for him, can do what he wants, is reportedly responsible directly for the voters, is obliged to hear what it is that voters are telling him and act in parliament. What does the party headquarters say, who cares? Approximately, it's a stereotype served for weeks and months to Serbian citizens. Is that so? It's not. Now on a case from a country that is the country of parliamentaryism, it's about the UK, to show that what the media is announcing under the control of the regime, that Mrs Nada Kolundzija is talking nothing to do with the real political situation in that country that is the country of parliamentaryism. In the British government, which is usually much bigger than ours and has 120 members, so-called. Four government whips, that's what they're called. What is the task of being “bice ”? To make sure their MPs in parliament discuss and vote as their party believes they should discuss and vote. What happens if one of those four "government whips" notices that the MP behaves contrary to what the political party has ordered him to, say, not attend a session of the National Assembly, or parliament in Great Britain? The custom is this: a written invitation is made to him, three times in a red pen, and if he does not attend a session of the National Assembly, or Parliament, his term of office is taken away. Tell me, where is the freedom of a British MP? Is there any connection between the British MP and his political party? There isn't. What Mrs. Hope Kolundzija was saying was that apparently those who wrote this caucus bill weren't clear about what the essence of democracy was. Those who were Marxists by yesterday, who went and finished Broz's schools now need to get us into the European Union; in that forest of various ideas, because they don't know what they were listening to, when they said things, they got mixed up. So, who do the citizens vote for in the election? Do they vote for Aleksandar Martinovic, do they vote for Gordana Comic, for Nada Kolundzija? No, I don't. For what? In mass democracy, in the era of total globalisation of our planet, in the era of the unprecedented development of modern communications, media, information systems, etc., what does one individual mean in politics? It doesn't mean anything. Who do the citizens opt for in the election? For a certain policy, for a certain, as sociologists would say, a view of the world. That's what citizens vote for. They trust a political programme. Who represents this political programme, is that what citizens should be doing? No, I don't. Can they know what kind of man I am? We listen to these days from the representatives of the regime – citizens should vote directly for the MP, although this law does not allow them to do so, because they will vote for who they know. Excuse me, what does that mean? A man saw me twice on the street and now he knows me. How does he know if I'm a good man, if I'm a moral man, if I'm a principled man? Does he know that in the election campaign, I will tell him that I am for big Serbia and then I enter parliament and I say - Ratko Mladic should be arrested? Can a citizen know that in this state of affairs? He can't. What happens to this thesis of the ruling coalition that the MP is free and that he should not listen to what the party headquarters is saying to him? Excuse me, can you tell me if there is any form of social organization, and parliament is one form of social organisation, the political party is one form of social organisation, where there is no discipline? Could society even work? Imagine an army lieutenant telling the Colonel what he has to say to you, who you are, I am a free man, I will command the army as I think I should, that you are taller by rank, which I care about. Imagine that in one hospital a nurse tells a doctor – I will not treat and give medicines as you tell me, but I will do as I think I should. What would happen to society if there wasn't some elemental discipline? What will happen to something that is very important, and that is the principle of politics when this law is passed? There won't be a stone left on the stone. It will happen immediately after the election is over, right after RIK, and even before that, determines who is assigned the mandates, will start pressing on these MPs, trade, offers, etc. What will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia turn into? That's what Cedomir Jovanovic said yesterday, and I stand behind it completely – in the flea market. It won't matter at all how many parties won the election term, what she talked about in the election campaign, what she stood for. Fine, it's a message from this law: don't spend money on an election campaign, don't organize stands, pay television shows, print posters and other propaganda material; wait, let someone else do it; when the time comes, save the bag and the money you saved buy as many MPs as you need. What if you went around Serbia along and across, to visit villages, to go on TV shows, to spend money, energy, nerves, etc.? Please wait for someone else to do all of this; when the election results are over, when it is clear that there is no longer the possibility of changing anything on the electoral lists, you say – I need ten, twenty, fifty MPs and you buy as well as you need. Then truly Serbia will be an example of a well-organised state. What is the ideological matrix of those who wrote this bill? It is essentially an enmity towards parliamentary democracy, the rest of the worst possible Stalinism, titoism and cardioism, which is that we must have democracy, but without political parties. Now don't let some party headquarters determine something there, it's not transparent etc., it's for the citizens to all be public, the mandate is free, everyone can do what he wants, etc. Representatives of a party called the Democratic Party are scaring the people with political parties. Literally, it turns out that political parties are some kind of trustee secret society, who knows what they're doing, what they do, what kind of people are sitting in those political parties. Let's completely eliminate the political parties from the democratic process and put only two factors into focus – citizens and MPs. He can't be a middleman. It's like Martin Luther's -- what you need a church for, what you need an intercessor between a believer and a God. About, like, here you are, what there is now some political party to ask a lot of questions. There is a citizen who will vote and there is an MP who will sit in parliament. How did this MP get on the list, who suggested him, why is he exactly the fifth on the list, and not 250, is that what the proposing representative is asking? The current mandate-sharing system is fairer. Why? The one on the 250th list has a chance of sitting in the National Assembly. Now the one who's 250 has no chance of being a Parliamentarian. You, Mrs. Kolundjia, are mistaken if you think this law will create a problem for the SRS because you have estimated that in the next election we will receive a relatively small term of office. The only thing that will cause this law, if adopted, will be an internal war in every political party, including yours, and I say it now to your MPs. Any one of them, for example, among the first 60-70 on the election list for the next elections can be hailed with parliamentary mandates. You will have a war in your political parties, you who will vote for this law. What, then, will be of this so-called political stability in Serbia if each party individually turns into a battlefield? The one who's 250 in the first place won't be able to see who's, like, the fifth, and by yesterday, they were good friends and colleagues. What were the parties responsible for, at least the Serbian Radical Party? Well, here in the National Assembly there are MPs from various parts of Serbia, from Saturday to Vranj, that all the ends of Serbia be as evenly represented as possible, and they are more developed and less developed. What happens now? Now on the lists, the first 10, 20, 50, 100, you will have practically party headquarters. You will have a grouping of candidates mainly from Belgrade and Novi Sad. Do you know when a small municipality will have an MP? Never. You will literally have an oligarchial parliament where mostly party heads, party leaders, various secretaries, vice presidents, etc. will sit. Then where is the logic of this law? Where's the logic that apparently party headquarters don't mix much? No, they won't interfere, they'll sit here, and you who vote for it will only be able to see the National Assembly on television. Don't look forward to you from the Democratic Party, you from the SPS, from the G17, etc. This law, you will have problems with your political parties. What do citizens get when they're allotted to a mandate like this? I don't see them getting anything. Now, citizens are reportedly going to know who's in which place on the list, so they're going to define themselves on that basis. Excuse me, but who's putting together an election list? Well, it's some party headquarters again. What's the difference? The only difference is that now the one who is 50, 100 or 250 on some election list, depending on which political party it is, will never sit here in the National Assembly. We will have a parliament that will be literally centralized, and you will have MPs that everyone will be able to buy, who will not decide with their own heads. What you call freedom of the People's MP, that's exactly the negation of his freedom. In a country that is poor, in a country that has a thousand and one economic and social problem, which is still in some transition, what's easier than buying a man who has a lot of problems, whose wife doesn't work anywhere, who can't train his child, who can't buy an apartment? What about some tycoon to take out 30,000, 50,000, 100,000 euros and buy that man? He may not be a bad man, if he were a little more wealthy he might be more independent, but in a situation where Serbia finds it very easy to buy a man. Don't mechanically follow that, you know, it's somewhere in the EU. First, we showed you that it wasn't, that you were inventing European standards. How is the European standard not valid in the UK and must be valid in Serbia? There are “government whips, ” the MP is free. How's that? Are you bigger Democrats than English? They didn't invent parliamentaryism, they invented you who finished Broz's political schools? Mrs. Suzana Grubjesic quoted Vladimir Goati; I will not quote Vladimir Goati, quoting the classics of the Serbian legal theory Slobodan Jovanovic, his first work "The Constitutional Law of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians". Here's what he says, who's the MP representing? It is also a great lesson for you to say that the MP represents this or that category of citizens, this or that municipality, etc. No, who does the MP represent? "Every MP of the people represents an entire people, not just those who chose him." So stop remembering that lie that now, according to this system, the MP is supposed to be responsible to those who choose him. Now this great Serbian legal science has told you that such a thing is not possible. As a People's Messenger, I represent the entire people and you as a People's Messenger represent the whole nation. You can't know who voted for you because, by the Constitution, the election is a secret. You cannot say with certainty a single name, to say – here, Janko Jankovic voted for me, I represent his interest. You can't know that because elections are secret. You represent the whole people, as I represent them, the only difference is that we represent them in different ways. I represent him according to my political program, and you represent him with yours. No one here represents his municipality, his family, his street, his friends, his relatives, neighbors, etc., but every MP represents the entire people. That is why we are called Messengers of the people. Each of us represents the entire people. What's the connection between the voters and the MPs? Here, I'll call Slobodan Jovanovic again. He wasn't a member of the Serbian Radical Party, but you'll let him know what we're talking about now more than me and you. Here's what he says in his famous "State", what kind of relationship there is between members of parliament and voters: "The voters choose members of parliament for a certain period of time. At the end of that deadline, parliament members submit to a new election. During their term, parliament members are independent of voters. Their rights and duties are not governed by any act of will by their constituents, but by law. Like other state authorities, parliamentarians have their own, on a law-based basis, jurisdiction. The voters only get their appointments, not their power. This is the last one they get from the legislator. There is no such relationship between members of parliament and voters as between the authorities and the power of attorneys. “ Members of parliament did not get a term of office from voters. You can't even see who they could get it from. Why? When people say it, they think of all those who have the right to vote. The people as such are political, not legal concepts, he is not organized. These are all those who have the right to vote in the Republic of Serbia. Those of you who talk about who owns the mandate, there's no such thing as a mandate owner. The term of office, translated into the language of constitutional law, the set of rights and obligations of a national MP as a public official. There is no property over public office. You can't have a mandate as a slave in traffic, and that's how you figured it out. That is why you have allowed the political party of sellers to sit in the National Assembly, because you have interpreted the mandate as a commodity in traffic – it will not be the one who receives trust from the people, but the one who has more money to buy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54834	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54835	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that because of the Rules of Procedure, there is no reason for us to speak to each other personally. I speak here on behalf of 109 MPs, and I am authorized to explain the reasons for the adoption of this law and the reasons for such solutions, so I do not consider this to be a personal polemic with any MP. Of course I believe that some of them know ancient theorists well, but I suppose they don't think that theory or reality has changed in the meantime. If they are already called to the Constitution, then they know that our Constitution does not know the people as bearer of sovereignty, but knows the citizen as bearer of sovereignty; it is a fundamental difference compared to what is something like a set, mass or plural, and not an individual who has an identity and can be identified. At the same time, if it is true that it is still valid for us to represent all citizens here, then it must also be true that we are not representing political parties. If we represent all citizens, we can hardly claim to represent individual political parties. So we have to define ourselves -- or one or the other, both of them are not logical. What we are really defining by this law is not preventing the MP from making his mandate available to the party or to the electoral list from being elected. We're just defining the way the MP himself can resign, not someone else in his name. So he cannot hold the political party in the hands of the MPs and have his mandate in his hands and have someone third on behalf of the MP. However we understand democracy, we can understand it in different ways, but what's quite certain is that it can't be true that DS as a party is trying to abolish or deny the parties. It's simply in itself illogical and unsustainable. If we are already comparing ourselves with the experiences of some others and saying that there is such a thing in the English Parliament. "beach," you must also say, in the English parliament, no third in the name of the MPs can resign. So, regardless of what there is, one who disciplines MPs to behave in accordance with the party's policy or programme, or whatever you want, there is no possibility of someone resigning on behalf of the MPs. So that's all this is about, so there's no confusion. Another question: who compromises the parliamentary post and who compromises the institution of MPs? Is the institution of MPs being compromised by the claim that parliament is a flea market? Yeah, I think so. And is it compromised by the constant repetition of the story that if someone unmistakable in the headquarters doesn't control those corrupt, poor, poor MPs, they'll just be a slave at the market for sale? I think it devalues the function of a People's MP and that anyone who says something like that offends himself, if they all believe he's honorable, honest, that he's here because he believes in something and because he wants to realize an idea he believes is in the interest of citizens whose name he's talking about. If someone thinks there's an instrument to prevent a corrupt man from staying corrupt, then I think the only way is to have a law that punishes it. So there's no way someone can be corrupt without being subject to the law. Then the question should be asked whether we should change the provisions on immunity and remove the possibility that whoever broke the law and was corrupt hide behind immunity? If he's automatically exposed to prosecution, we can say it's the best protection. If someone is to say that somewhere in the party headquarters there is someone who will prevent corruption by resigning on behalf of the MP, then I don't think we understand each other. I don't think that can be a solution, because corruption isn't being treated by claiming that someone is not prone to corruption and automatically trust him because he's somewhere in a power plant, and everyone else sitting here in parliament, who came to parliament because they got the support of Serbian citizens, are potentially suspicious and perhaps already in advance corrupt, so if someone in the central doesn't hold them in a short chain, they'll sell them for small, big money, depending on who appreciates themselves. I claim that parties that are serious and who believe in ideas and who have people who believe in ideas... There's no money you can buy these people in this House. That's why we think it's the MP who can only resign, no one else on his behalf. If the party made a mistake and sent the wrong one, she'll be punished by voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54836	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, two minutes, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't make up for the ignorance that is obviously due to a long series of years spent in another ideological world, but I will try again to call for the help of Slobodan Jovanovic. As paragraph 18 puts it, “the crowd understands the gathering of people living in the same country. ” That, Mrs. Kolundjia, is what you call citizens today. The term “people” should distinguish the concept of “nationality, ” and in order to do so it should be clear from what nationality is. It was once assumed that ethnicity is a natural blood community as well as a tribe and that there is a difference between it and the tribe only in the fact that the nation is one tribe that was common. Multiplication and dispersion, etc. So, Slobodan Jovanovic distinguishes the people from the nation, and that's what I gave you. People, they are citizens; the nation has many in the Republic of Serbia: some are Serbs, some are Hungarians, Albanians etc. People in terms of citizens, they're all equal before the law. That's what this is about. You people identify with the nation. In a legal sense and legal science, that's not so. When the people are said, they are thought – all citizens. These citizens are, of course, ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistically different, but all of them are citizens in front of the country. Now it turns out, if you listened carefully to Mrs Nada Kolundji, it's not the one who turned parliament into a flea market, but if you point out that parliament is turned into a flea market. You, Mrs. Kolundjia, turned him into a flea market, no one else. We're not from the Serbian Radical Party, when we don't have a majority here. You have selectively dealt with these famous blanco resignations: when you submitted them to the Administrative Committee, you took the mandates from the MPs; when we tolerated them, you did not do so. You've had unequal treatment in the same legal situation. It's the biggest legal crime you can imagine, that in the same situation you act in two different ways. (President: Two minutes. When it comes to my party, there is a blank resignation. When it is tolerated by Serbian radicals, it is not in line with democratic standards. That's what this is about. Tell me, Mrs. Kolundjia, I didn't get an answer to that question – what exactly do citizens get from now the parties are going to determine the order of candidates on the list? Will the citizens determine them? He won't. They will again be determined by political parties. Why are you scaring people with political parties? We delivered our statutes to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Those statutes don't say anything that's controversial. So we're a democratic and political organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54838	People's MP, the time at your disposal for replica has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54839	I'm afraid every time you don't have strong arguments, you make a little insult, but that's your problem, not mine. Just because you're young doesn't mean you're able to understand the changes in the world you live in and accept that some theories and some practical things in life have changed and moved away from what you're saying here. When it is said that a citizen is a carrier of sovereignty, in modern theory it is not a people. There is a fundamental difference between the state's definition as a civil state, where sovereignty is attributed to a citizen as a single, not as a collection. There's a big difference and that's how I understand it. What I'm trying to say is that I'm not saying that what we're proposing is some ideal model, that we're now able to solve all the problems. In particular, I am not saying that we have now solved the basic problems that this society has in its democratic development. I'm not saying that at all, nor at any point did I say that. I think that some of the problems that have been seen need to be solved at this stage in order to change the entire electoral system and the rules of the election game, we set up a system that's better than this. That's all it's about. No one here has claimed that we have now solved all the problems. Here are just some of the problems that have been recorded and what really are the problems. If you want, they're our problem and they're in implementation, because we don't accept blanco resignations as an instrument in two and a half years, so you can say we're breaking the Constitution. If you claim that this law is unconstitutional, then the decision not to accept the blank resignations is also unconstitutional. The fact that your former colleagues are sitting in this House is not our fault, but yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54840	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, two minutes, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if what Mrs. Kolundji is saying is true, then we should not be called MPs, but citizens' MPs. From its point of view, there is a difference between people and citizens, and that is not true. Mrs. Kolundzija, I am not a Serbian MP, and my colleague, Balint Pastor, is not a Hungarian MP, but we are both MPs because we represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What nation a citizen belongs to is completely secondary to this debate. You can't decide that right, from the point of view of the state order, the people differ from the nation. When you say "people," you mean "citizens." That is why we are the Messengers of the people, so this is the people's congregation. It is home to both Serbs and Hungarians, both Albanians and all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for these famous blanco resignations, tell me by which model you took the term of office of Mr Ferza Celovic in October 2008, a month after the head of the cemetery work unit educated his parliamentary group here? Tell me, by what system has this man been taken from office? By the system of blanco resignation. When the Serbian Radical Party submitted those famous blanco resignations, although it is not called so, it is the freedom of the MP to put his mandate at its disposal, then the blank resignations are not valid. In the case of Ferza Celovic, they are valid. Tell me, in what part of the Constitution does it say that the Democratic Party is right, with its coalition partners, to apply various arches in the same situations? Don't they apply blanco resignations? Then they don't apply to anyone. They can't apply to some, and for some, they don't. When there is a possibility that your parliamentary majority will be derailed then the blank resignations will be valid, then the Administrative Board will last five minutes. When the SRS submits these famous blanco resignations, the Administrative Board shall take five hours. I had to bring this many books of constitutional law to prove to Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic that the SRS was right, and nothing was worth anything to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54842	Two minutes. Thank you. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? National MP Vesna Pesic was registered in the electronic system. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54843	I wanted to point out what Hope Kolundji's colleague said, so it would certainly be much better if we could agree to pass a new electoral law and that some solutions and all that law and concept would be much better than this is now, as certain amendments and additions, the amendments to the law that already exists. However, I think it is good that these amendments to the law are also passed because there have been many criticisms. I would like to make one comment on the mere explanation of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. It is too stressed that these changes have been made under the influence of Serbia's decision to join the EU, and critical remarks by the Venice Commission are also mentioned. We could also refer to our local public, which has been very critical of the existence of the blank resignations; even one party of the parliamentary party, the LDP, did not have any blank resignations. Our experts, like Vladimir Goati, Alexander Molnar, have criticised the imperial mandate and the situation that the member of the Constitution is 101, as interpreted here, practically the usurpation of the sovereignty of citizens in our country. I think what was now suggested might have been better, but certainly these changes are welcome. If we had looked wider, we could have changed other attitudes in this law without certain consequences. Let's just say that we were not limited to the EU's remarks that we could change a member of Law 73, because so far the practice has confirmed that the vote abroad of our citizens who have residence in Serbia and their residence abroad (where each election list must have been held by an election board, in various parts of the world) was very expensive. There are various modern models that could have been arranged, especially when it comes to saving and throwing money, which continues in this way. While we were already bringing changes and additions, there could be some intervention. I would also like to ask a question, because I couldn't get an answer, why does Article 43 say that a list of which parties or coalitions surrender, or groups of citizens, must have 10,000 signatures? The political party law, as I recall, has accepted 10,000 signatures for party registration, with neatly registered political parties not having to collect signatures. I don't know if there's been a change, I can't remember, but I think one of those changes was. So, that could only be true when it's submitted by groups of citizens, not registered political parties. Finally, I would like to point out, since I really don't have much time to talk about these changes, that it's a good thing the law of explicit is gender-sensitive and that it wants to achieve in future elections one third of the MPs to be women. However, what concerns and what could be read in the press is that the amendment might be submitted, I don't know if it happened, that if a woman resigns (means, if a member of a half who is less represented to resign, then a less represented sex should be found and replaced), that it should eventually be thrown out of these changes and additions and that the replacement, independent of gender, could also be a man. I think it was suggested by the Democratic Party that I saw it. I don't think that would be a good thing to break that one-third we've defined ourselves for. Unless there's one third of it, the list itself, according to this law, can be rejected by the electoral commission. If the election commission could reject such a list that has no 30% of women (in this case, it is women, not to use these rhubarb expressions), then I don't think it would be good if that one-third, which is clearly guaranteed, were changed afterwards. That amendment, which you from the Democratic Party seem to intend to endure, should not, in my opinion, be accepted. These other changes should be accepted because, apart from the European Union, which is very important to us, our public has been explicit in the fact that a citizen should know who he chooses and that the blank resignation is erased from our practice, and the law did not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54844	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who did not exercise their right in this part of the session, reporting for word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDP, PUPS, SPS-JS, minorities, New Serbia, DSS, SRS, ZES. Under the agreement and because of the obligations that MP Zoran Krasic has, the order will be such that the word will first be won by Nebojsa Randjelovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic. After the MP on the list you have number 8, MP Petar Petrovic, who is against it, will be called MEPs of the ZES Group, who are in favour, so that we will listen to discussions alternately. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54845	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have heard much about constitutionality and compliance with the Constitution, about the recommendations of the Constitutional Court. It will turn out that we from the LDP are liquefiing, but I just want to remind myself that five years ago we ran an anti-constitutional campaign not because we felt that Serbia did not need the Constitution, but we claimed that the constitution that was being brought is not good. This constitution has acquittal disadvantages. Who knows how many times I've talked here in Parliament about the opposite of Article 5 with Article 102 or Article 105 with Article 134? I would say, forgive me on the colloquial dictionary, not only was it legally unsustainable to put such provisions in the Constitution, it was stupid. Now we reap the fruits of constitutional failures that under pressure we repair by one bad law. When we had this anti-constitutional campaign, our activists were detained, arrested, and those who are now proposing this law, along with those who are sitting here in opposition, were campaigning to end up with a scandalous referendum, where two days and a night were voted. We have been pushing for five years to change scandalous solutions in the Constitution, for which no mention of a political factor in Serbia has been heard. Now that we are in teat, and we are being pressured by pressures, we are being asked for understanding; well, here you are, seeking understanding from those with whom you have brought such a Constitution. Let me look back at the famous blanco resignation. Of course we are against the blank resignations, LDP MPs are the only ones in this House who have not signed the blank resignations. The question arises, which probably no one has thought about for five years, because this is about the need to change the Constitution, how then Article 102 will apply. The Constitution? Or perhaps our Constitutional Court will declare that the Constitution itself is unconstitutional? The Constitutional Court itself is a factor of instability, a factor of uncertainty in Serbia. To remind me, when the German Constitutional Court makes some decisions, it gives a five-year deadline to apply it so as not to cause turbulence in the state's functioning system. Our Constitutional Court has no hearing, no meaning. In particular, the legislators of the law call for decisions of the Constitutional Court. I'm holding in my hand the Constitutional Court's decision with famous arguments. It's about article 84. What was given as an explanation suggests that the electoral system should be changed. If you cannot explain why such an electoral system is needed, why it is necessary in Serbia, then change the electoral system, but then you will have to explain why you are doing something that is directly contrary to the political reality of society in Serbia. Or perhaps, as counterpart Martinovic said, Slobodan Jovanovic and, I will mention, Stojan Protic did not know what they were saying when they claimed that a proportional system in undeveloped societies was the only way to protect the minority in parliament? No one here has explained it, and we are trumpeting the necessity of a change in article 84. Of course, in the light of the law, you are calling for an explanation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Let's see what the Constitutional Court has given in its reasoning: "The Constitutional Court estimates that this way of obtaining an individual parliamentary mandate violates the constitutional principle of the sovereignty of citizens and the principle of direct elections. In the course of the vote, citizens only confirm the party's electoral list by opting for a party delegation for the national representation, and from the ranks of this party delegation, which will inevitably always have a greater number of candidates for the MP than the number of representative mandates received, leading the political party's authorities on their own and finally electing representatives. “ The Constitutional Court had no hearing of political reality, nor was it heard of something called party political responsibility. So political parties profile political life in Serbia. Where is the hearing of the Constitutional Court for such a reality? Or, they say, "By not being obliged to respect the order of candidates on the election list, the political party is essentially making the choice of a member of parliament by ruling the parliamentary term. In this way, according to the Constitutional Court's assessment, not only is the principle of direct elections broken down, but the idea of a national team, i.e. citizens, is being devised. “ Thus, the Constitutional Court itself equidistant the terms “people” and“ citizen, ” which my colleague Martinovic had just spoken of. "If the only goal of the election is to establish the electoral power of political parties, then it is absolutely unnecessary for the names of candidates for MPs to be found on their election lists. “ It is the supreme cynicism of the Constitutional Court. In the proportional system, parties or other list applicants are the bearers of the political profiling process of the electoral body, but each party is in the interest of having the best candidates on the list. It is not a symbiosis for the competition of parties and individuality of future legislators, it is an alphabet of political literacy, which obviously the Constitutional Court does not have, and I wonder whether the legislators have it. Finally, as you are already referring to the constitutional court's argument, I would read one indemnity quoted by our head of parliament yesterday, he said, "It is also the view that the disputed way of obtaining an individual parliamentary mandate lies in a very tense relationship with the constitutional principle of gender equality. “ I would like someone to explain to me what a “tense relationship ” is in the case of gender equality? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54846	Six minutes and fifty seconds used by the MP's group. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54847	I will try not to compromise what is well stated in favour of the criticism of this operation, which is called "how at all costs to meet the requirements that come from Brussels". I'm going to try not to comment on it, because it's a standard, it's the basis of everything that's going on. Just to remind you, that you could continue to follow this discussion, by order of those same 2008 you made one parliamentary group and one party in this room, and now by order of these same rights from the owners; it is allegedly the owner of a mandate and can therefore go to the market for Miskovic, Bek, Saric, Canet, etc. But it's already widely known, let's go, because of these great professors from the Faculty of Political Sciences and these unfortunate judges of our Constitutional Court. Is there anything called a standard for this area? There is. Now, let me draw your attention to you, in Europe, it is the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I must remind you that the Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was adopted back in 1952. It has been amended in accordance with Protocol number 11, and I ask you to remember very well Article 3 of that Protocol, which has the title "Right to Free Elections" and reads: "High Foreign Contracting Parties undertake to hold free elections with a secret vote at appropriate intervals, under conditions that provide free expression of the opinion of the people in the selection of legal bodies. “ Now tell me where there is a mandate, an imperative mandate, who owns the mandate, who has the mandate? There are no more standards in Europe. Has Serbia fulfilled that? Yes, and before we ratified this convention in 2003. Just to remind you that in 2003, when we ratified this convention, we put two reserves in accordance with the Convention, as regards the Law of Infractions, the Law of Administrative Disputes, and there is a third reserve. In 2005, we removed those reserves. However, I must draw attention to you, because of the divergence of the legal-political systems in the Member States of the Council of Europe (this is what we are talking about, I cannot talk about the EU because it is our foreign right, it does not oblige us, what it stands for, it is a personal problem), because what the MP does can be brought under the free expression of his beliefs, I must tell you that there is a Article 10. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights; Freedom of Thoughts, Consciousness and Faith, Article 9(2), which says – the freedom to manifest their faith or their beliefs will only be subject to those restrictions provided for by the law necessary in a democratic society in the interests of public security, the protection of public order of health or morals (please, and morale must be taken into account) or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. Why did I read this to you? For the simple reason that, by definition, the electoral law is not an absolute right and because our Constitution allows this area to be regulated by law in accordance with the Constitution, and we in the Constitution itself have the appropriate provisions that define electoral law both in terms of years of life and in respect of other conditions. Then we come to the right field, that someone put in the term "blanco resignation" that doesn't exist. There's absolutely no such thing. Since we were listening yesterday to some people who swore here that they wanted to regulate the Law on the selection of MPs so that citizens wouldn't vote but to vote, it's such a heavy nonsense that they didn't deserve any comment, I have to read and praise the Serbian Radical Party as the creator of the Law on the selection of National MPs from 2000, where it went far ahead of these standards. I would remind you that a member of the 9th law has been governed by electoral law. Well, to remember what is covered by all the electoral rights: the right of citizens to choose and vote in a manner and in a procedure established by law; passive and active voting rights; the right to run and to be run; to decide on the proposed candidates when voting for candidates and election lists when voting for electoral lists; to ask candidates publicly questions; to be timely, truthfully and objectively informed about the programmes and activities of voters and candidates on those lists, as well as to have other rights provided for by this law. So all that stands and what is written in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs is in line with the top standards prescribed by European regulations, above all I mean the conventions that have been ratified, brought by the Council of Europe, where we are members. In the European Union, thank God, we are not, nor will we ever be. Let's see what that famous Venice Commission of yours says next. You know, Venice has a sewer problem, so when the commission works there, they mix up the smells and their brains don't work right. What they wrote about Article 102, paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? It says – it seems that the intention is to bind the MP to the party on all matters and always. They spoke to our people in 2006, November, here in Belgrade, Boris Tadic, Kostunica and Cirko, respectively, and they said -- Article 102. position 2 must remain because of Karic, because Karic buys MPs. It went down in history, recorded. And now that they've seen that we're hunting and weak, that we're dividing ourselves into hard ones and these soft ones that accept everything that comes from Brussels and squeeze a little bit of the soft ones, they're now saying that they're overly concentrating power in the hands of party leadership, and this is even more worrying because of the excessive role of the National Assembly in naming functions in the judiciary and in general. You see, there are no people here. No one's talking about who owns the mandate. It's the wrong subject, it's the wrong question, it's the question that however you answer it – make a mistake. That's what those of the Faculty of Political Sciences who's being funded by someone on the side of this issue have been asking you. We are now in a situation where changes and additions of this law need to be discussed today. You should. The only thing where I support Mrs. Hope Kolundji, I made that public here yesterday, to remind you, Mrs. Kolundjia, although Mrs. Slavica Djukic got a little angry, my involvement was affirmative... You've just forgotten Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This article gives us an order to prescribe by law the conditions under which what is written in Article 102(2) can be realized. Not to eliminate it, not to bypass it, but to make it the focus of these changes of ours. This means that as one of the reasons for the end of the term of office, in addition to conflicts of interest, the death of MPs, resignations as a personal act of MPs, of course, there is a mandate to be made available to the political party. For he has the right to do so under Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution can't be unconstitutional. You made a mistake yesterday. As Bosa Nenadic can't be worth left-right and say – this may not be in line with some standards. Well, it's according to standards. We have an obligation here in the Assembly to fight crime. How am I supposed to fight the crime committed by Miskovic, "Banka Inteza"? Tomorrow every tycoon will buy 126 MPs here if you release him so much from his brain. Because this is brain-freeness. If you're so hearty for democracy, how come it doesn't happen to you that someone votes against some bill of law submitted by the government? No, I don't. Mrs. Comic, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, with the help of this men's part of the ZES team, attracts MPs, they must come, they must not be sick. The fact that they can't be sick is a reflection of their supreme freedom and commitment. We need to talk real and look openly at these things that are happening. So, we've submitted a few amendments to you. One of these amendments is to implement this right prescribed by Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Remember, in 2008, look at the stenogram, you were warned by the Serbian Radical Party. You said there was no resignation. He boasted about how he lost them. We've initiated proceedings; the courts are silent. He owed the client 68,000,000 dinars. We survived that blockade. And now, in the new Law on the financing of political parties, you are inserting a provision that the parties may be in debt with the banks. Then we won't have parties, then we'll have bankers in political parties. Is it possible that no one in this country can stand by the banks? They will command here, they will decide – we do not like Cvetkovic, it can be someone else. And then all of you who voted for Cvetkovic to say -- changed, the opportunity changed, Srdjan Milivojevic was better for the Prime Minister. That wouldn't surprise me. The tycoons have also formed this government. The tycoons finance both power and opposition. Why? That no one in politics bothers them when they realize their personal interests. You had an Arandelian. You had Kladov's the other day-- shoe parts, share this, share that. You had performances here. What costs a tycoon to give 100,000 euros to raise 50,000 -- 60,000 people to protest his favorite, his investment to power, to forgive him for how much he owes the state? You're criminalizing a political scene, and it's public. You're amnesty. Due to the inability to do something, you have this situation that even today Tomislav Nikolic is being led on the National Assembly site as if he were a member of the Serbian Radical Party! You don't finance his party from the Serbian budget. And what are you doing at the bar? Here's an example: Rakovica municipality, 80,000 dinars are given to the Serbian Progressive Party according to the number of councilors, and they didn't even participate in the elections! Why don't you apply what you apply at the republic's level here, when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to local budgets? But I'm gonna sue that boyan millic of yours. And I will sue you all. That's how you apply the law. At first, it was appropriate for you to do damage to the Serbian Radical Party, so you changed the decision on 31 December 2008 under the pressure of America – save it, we need as many parties as possible for the EU. It's a real picture of what's going on here. It's not a bad quality of MPs, it's what you want to belittle. Haranga is being led for two and a half years against the MPs. You're all the victims of that haranga. If anyone is not satisfied, spit on the National Assembly. Let him spit on the MP. You're free to do that. You couldn't defend yourself against some journalists when you organized a meeting, but you got a pack to shut up, to suffer, not to compromise the Euro-Atlantic path. It's our reality today. And someone thinks we're gonna get out of this crisis? We can't get out of this crisis like this. What's the problem? Twenty-one percent of citizens voted against the European Union. Respect these people, do not steal their mandates. You steal here, you steal in local self-government. Two councilmen were stolen in Raska. The daughter is immediately employed by the Ministry of the Interior. For what? To disintegrate the location on the Kopalnik, as radicals interfere when they're in power. This is the story, not the Venice Commission, the European Union, the European Commission, etc. Remember, under the 2006 Constitution, political parties have become the basis for a multi-party system and constitutional category. It wasn't the 1990s. That wasn't the '90s. Remember the round tables in 1992, when the first proportional elections were promoted? Now someone's thinking about some other type of choice. Article 102(2) obliges the proportional electoral system to apply. And you're making some gymnastics about how to fool the people, so even those who are against the European Union vote for those who are cobajags against, and in fact they are. Well, that's what we had in May 2008 -- the whole party went to that block, you made... The whole party! We can figure that out, but not now to patch up one by one, buy one, so someone's got a criminal record, somebody's got something, then a condition, so on. That's our reality. That's what we need to know. That's what we have to stamp. That's what we have to say. Why am I saying this? There is no disturbance, there is no problem in this law of ours on the selection of MPs. I remember when we passed the Law on Election Lists... Well, why are you changing these two members as far as the voter lists are concerned? That's when we told you that these things should change. You said no, you don't know that. Here, now you're changing those two articles about a copy of the voter's list. It's the matter that had to go into that law. I don't have the right to believe you, I can't trust you, especially to do something honest. Presumption is doubt, you know. I have to call on some personal experience of my own, I know you very well, and I know who you are and what you are and what you do. You're ordering some classes here, so someone's quoting me sartoria, so someone's quoting me some other... The NGO sector. When financed by NGOs, say so. You have inserted Chupic into the Anti-crime Agency, "resilient". Whose interests will he represent there? They're not even political parties anymore, they're political entities, so that as many NGOs and free shooters as possible get in here, that trade can be done to the end. You devalue parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia. That's why you have to raise your voice. Remember, in 2008, I told you, that little rock I throw out of my leg is going to become a big rock around your head, which is why you're going to lose power. Now you're aware of that. You can't do anything. Why? Organized crime is behind this project, oligarchs, tycoons, those who have money. They're in charge of you. You don't have your own ideology. Where's your ideology? Your ideology doesn't exist. Your ideology is 126. You're making us talk seriously to number 126. We don't want to talk seriously about that number. Are you saying Portugal is an uncivilized state? Tell Barroso when it comes to you, Portugal is an uncivilised state because there is a provision in its constitution that prohibits MPs from doing anything and forces them to be moral. Tell Mrs Ashton, when she comes here, that the party "bice" thing is not acceptable to pro-European Serbia, to throw out its "bice" so they cannot control their MPs. Tell them. Turn their attention. You can't. You're talking through the system – what else could we do to eventually get a signature in October. If it is not in October, it will be in November; if it is not in November, it will be in December. What year? The other day your president said, "Be patient, we'll be hiring from New Year's Eve." God forbid, they're gonna be fired again. Everything he promised happened the other way around. That's how it happens with your bill. You're forcing the Republic Election Commission to determine who's going to be the MP. With what right? How is that possible? Then why political parties? How can they shape political will? How? Why would one who should be on the 250th list bring his file to the list when there's no chance of your concept? Why should there be a 17th or 20th one on the list that will pass, and he wouldn't move in his municipality? And those who burned for the political party can't be on the list. Who gave you the right to enter into the domestic affairs of the political party, in fact organization, campaigning, etc.? What gave you the right to create that? Based on Bose Nenadić's position. I've got a strong attitude! A strong attitude, Bossa Nenadic. If you were any normal government, you would have UBPOK examine what the Constitutional Court is doing. Well, look at what he's doing, what he's undoing, what he's undoing. We've been asking for a procedure to be initiated to get rid of these people. How is it possible to skip Article 102(2)? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Did you see that there is no such thing in their decisions as if it didn't exist? Let us today, during the change of this law, implement what you promised in September and October 2008. Remember when we brought those resignations: when the Radicals can't. When it comes to Mrs. Milivojevic or Goran Paunović, then it can. When he's the Mayor of Loznica, then he can, and when he needs something, he can't. You remember Djokovic, then the problems, so Rafailovic, you remember those other flyers, etc. Do you remember Karic, how he made the party? Do you remember how the Vuk's party became parliamentary, although it did not participate in the elections? The one from Prokupil, as it was, you remember his last name. Well, you create and you bring this in to make the Serbian political scene a flea market where the rule of supply and demand applies, who can offer! Rafaelovic offered a mandate. How much does a mandate cost? Any more, his political group can belong. It's a shame and a shame! Vlaovic, yes. That's what this is about. Vlaovic suffered pressure, so he went to report to the police what pressure Karic had put on him. How much pressure do you think there is today? I've read you this article 9, which includes electoral rights. Since you came to power, you haven't wanted to form a monitoring board to observe the media scene, whether the media scene is being abused. In what way? To prevent citizens from freely forming their own electoral will. How will a citizen form his electoral will freely if the Serbian Radical Party's video goes once a day and the Democratic Party's video is broadcast a thousand times a day? You don't care about that. You don't care. We'll talk more specifically about these amendments. Here are your examples, and here are your court decisions on how to steal mandates and how to steal money, so this group is funded here. It's a group of potential killers. They formed a parliamentary group the moment he was asked on the table to impose a defender on Vojislav Seselj. They wanted a coup so Vojislav Seselj could strike, and then no one could defend him. I'm being played by some gentlemen, people's representatives! If it wasn't for the cross, this guy wouldn't even have shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54848	National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54849	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, a law that causes great public attention in the sense that, above all, it seems to me, the influence of political parties, the will to determine the mandate by political parties and, of course, the question of resignation. Without the intention of entering the theoretical debates, I want to make a point about this law through a few sentences. First of all, I think the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on selecting Members of the People can be observed from three parts. The first part concerns compliance with the Serbian Constitution. He's indisputable to us, and I won't hold on to it. The second part regulates the way in which the mandate was assigned, both after the elections were held and subsequently after the term of office of the MP. The third part concerns the issue of resigning, insists that it be a personal act, a personal will, and that no one can stand it in someone's name. I would like to say that this bill responds to three requirements, three questions, which are: the EU's request, the competent authorities and bodies (of course, we aim to the EU and we want to comply with all our regulations with EU standards), the second position of the Constitutional Court in terms of the allocation of mandate and the third position of the professional public. If we look at it from that point of view, this law answers all three questions, all three demands, but it doesn't solve the problem. So, if we look at whether we are giving an answer to these requirements – we do. However, we do not solve the problem. We have to deal with it, and we have to keep in mind that we can't push him aside. Here's the thing, in our opinion. First, when it comes to the allocation of the mandate, it is proposed that the allocation of the mandate be carried out by laying down the order of candidates on the basis of the draft list, and then on the basis of the percentage of votes, the mandates are assigned in order on the list. So the solution is possible, it answers this question, but it's not good and it's also raising problems. In a situation where we have more options in the proportional electoral system, I think there are better options than this. That's something we should be dealing with by considering this just one forced, transient solution. In the proportional electoral system we have closed lists, open lists, we have closed blocked and closed unblocked lists. Here is the commitment and position of the Constitutional Court to keep the blocked list closed, so when the list is submitted, the mandates are assigned in order. It is one of the solutions, and I am fully agreed that such a solution allows voters to know which candidates have the most chances, most likely to get mandates as a result of their vote for a particular election list. All right, but please, the problem is others: they also know who can't get into the Assembly, and that's already the problem, who doesn't have a chance to get into the Assembly. Then that's the problem. The problem is the motivation of candidates and the motivation of voters. You know, if someone in their midst runs a good campaign, and it's in the 198th place, you're going to say, should I vote for you when you're never going to enter parliament? The problem is even the equal representation of the whole of Serbia in the assembly. The problem is that this doesn't bother either the parties or the candidates to fight in the election campaign, because they expect, if they have a large percentage, if they earn a large percentage, that it will be a corrective factor and that they will be able to get that mandate. So that's the problem, and we have to face it. I fully agree that political parties should be disabled to grant arbitrary mandates. But if we build up the rules in advance, before the election is known, then it's no longer arbitrary. If we say - those who have the highest percentage will get a mandate because they have earned such a thing in their neighborhoods, it is no longer arbitrary. The second thing I want to stay on for a while is the issue of the delegation's allocation at the end of the term of office. Here, a trail of the previous solution closed and blocked lists goes to follow that to the first next candidate. The exception was made when it comes to less-represented sex, and I support it. I think we need to ensure a greater presence and participation of the less represented sex in this, but what can we do about it as a problem? We should not mind that the law provides for the possibility of political parties, groups of citizens and party coalitions participating in the elections. So the law allows them to participate in elections and party coalitions, but later views them as a party. In this context, it is necessary to consider the possibility that in these conditions, when order on the list and coalition agreement should be respected, it also affects how the mandate will be assigned in order, given who participates in the coalition. It is not arbitrary either, because the coalition agreement is given before the elections and the citizens know exactly who is involved in it and what parties it is. So you have to keep that in mind. Thirdly, I have one question: in this regard, we have even given the amendment – if someone who is at the top of the list, in such conditions, brings votes, is elected minister, why can't he, if the government ceases to function, change most of them, have that mandate again? Because he had it, he earned it, maybe he was a carrier, maybe he was the first and largest voter of that list he just earned, why don't we give him the chance to have it again? Of course, if the seat of the MP is vacant. In the end, since time seems to be going fast, I'll just be a short while longer on the resignations. The law insists that it be a personal act, a personal will, and no one else can do it but him. All right, we agree on that. What's the problem we can't skip? We're going to have to look for some solutions in the future how to get that free term that has an MP can't sell to anyone, can't give it to anyone, etc. We had situations where our parties became parliamentary even though they did not participate in the elections. It's something we can't skip. We can't say – listen, it's not a problem. That's the problem, and that's what we have to deal with. Hence my sentence – we have responded to all these requirements, okay, but it must be considered in detail, in creating such an electoral system that will allow all these problems to be solved. Because if we had offered an electoral system that is in line with democratic standards, it is in accordance with the Constitution, we would have had our consent to do so again. There are many variations: a personalised, proportionate, closed list, a vote for candidates on lists, open lists, and not to list any further. In the end, I think (even if I'm going to be a little too sharp) this solution when it comes to resignation simply offending the Assembly. I agree, the resignation is a personal act, a personal will, and no one on behalf of him can give it to her, but, people, if the MP resigns himself, why does he have to verify it? Why can't the MP say that I'm resigning to the post of MP? We say - it's nice what you did, but go check what you said earlier. I don't think that's a good thing, especially since there's a chance in the Rules of Procedure that the Administrative Committee, before it comes to the Assembly, is calling on the MP to confirm whether he resigned. Is he really supposed to go then? How are all the other resignations filed? So, the minister resigns, and we say - go and confirm your resignation? I think that solution has to change. The essence remains the same, a personal act, a personal will, but pay little respect to that act. So to conclude, they're giving answers, but it's not a problem solved. The only solution is to go deeper into the essence of the electoral system and find the one that will answer all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54850	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. I give my word to Parliamentarian Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54851	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are considering a very complex topic. The problem of a free mandate and respect for the will of citizens expressed through the electoral process is a very sensitive topic. In the Presevo municipality we have a bad experience that stems from these dilemmas that we are discussing today and all these intrusions and interventions of the Constitutional Court. In 2003, the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja first set off with a proportional electoral system, and we came first, following the Constitutional Court's decision, under fire, shortly before the government fell at the central level, after losing the majority in parliament. That's what happened to the Presevo municipality. It is unfortunate for me that conditions change during one term and thus collapses and attacks this electoral will, and drastically. When the rules of the game change during the term of office, I don't think anyone is discussing it, that we have had several cases of this election will collapse during the term of office, this is a situation of inconsistency between our representative, highest authority, assembly and court, in this case of the Constitutional Court. It probably takes some deeper analysis on how to bring the electoral system in line. What we have is certainly not going to provide the most vulnerable link between voters and representatives in parliament. You have around examples with these open or personal lists, where next to the party there is also a choice among candidates within a party. Probably a little closer to respecting the electoral will of the citizens. It's more complicated, though. On the other hand, we had a majority system; here directly in one unit, one, two or three municipalities, one is given a representative through these direct elections. It is likely that this electoral will is much closer to this current, proportionate system. When it comes to representing minorities, those who are concentrated in certain areas, the same goes for both the majority system and the multi-unit proportional. We even had the worst situation when a proportional system was introduced, where the whole of Serbia is one electoral unit. As a result, minorities could not be represented through their parties in parliament in two terms. I absolutely agree with all the objections and demands that the supplement must be made in order to break up the practice of "fleeing", buying mandates; of all the negative aspects, it is probably the hardest. We ask the parties to invest; they even have to go into bail for a campaign, which costs quite a lot, and then, freely, on the basis of the will of the individual (and in the local and only for the sake of employment), change the party. Unfortunately, that's what's happening. It's counterproductive. Let me add one more situation: we're talking about this order, but if the party points out 250 candidates, and they go for example. The first 50, what about the contribution of the remaining, who made a major contribution to the party's 50? Any variant is questionable. Efforts should be made to make an adequate electoral system in the next period. When it comes to representing minorities, I've been pointing out for a long time that we must, if not in the next election... With these changes and additions, we will not get far in providing adequate representation of minorities in the National Assembly. What do we have right now? All seven MPs who are representatives of their communities through parties representing these minorities. That's drastic. We're talking about gender equality, which should also be given great importance. It is good that we will provide 30% of these supplements, but the degradation rate of minority participation in parliament is far lower than their actual participation in the population structure. On this occasion, we did not discuss at all how we could improve minority representation in the National Assembly. We can come very easily and quickly to the fact that, except for Hungarians and Bosniaks, through their parties, there are no other representatives of minorities in this House. It would be worth further analysis of things here. If we're in trouble with time and we don't have a lot of commodities to do better next election, it's still worth the constant discussion of this process to find the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54852	Thank you, Mr. Riza Halimi. I give my word to the MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54853	Thank you, dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, for proposing this text of the law, I think we must at first, because there is a lot of ambiguity about it, to do a little recapitulation on how this law has changed and how we ended up where we are today. Also to answer this seemingly illogical question, which is, although we all think this law is not good enough, why will one number of MPs, including the LDP Group, be forced to vote for such a solution? In my opinion, these are two very important political issues. If we do not redefine our political practice very quickly and set it on a different basis, we will not get far, no party in this assembly and no MP sitting in this assembly. I'll remind you that the European Union, which is a key driver, is not supposed to be any secret to this law... No other institution, but the EU Commission is the initiator of this, and it has been objecting to this since 2007, if I am not mistaken, since the constitution was adopted, a year after that; reports on Serbia's progress in the European integration process each year mention the theme of the blank resignations. Today is 2011, the month of May or the second half of May. The European Commission will begin writing a report on Serbia in less than a month. The first part of the report will be political reform in Serbia, and unless we adopt this law at this session, we lose the theoretical opportunity to become candidates for membership in the European Union. This isn't the only law, but he's one of the preconditions. Only that is why the Liberal Democratic Party will be forced to vote for such a solution. By choosing between taking on a kind of political responsibility for bringing something that we think is bad and that Serbia loses its chance and the future we will once again assume that kind of political responsibility, but it will not give a good result in the end, not for us, but for the whole country. For five years, this assembly has completely ignored the fact that it cannot enter Europe with legislation that is in the grip of many of the basics of elections and the democratic system. Blanco's resignations were one of the laws, but it still did not prevent the ruling majority from having blanco resignations and that from that position, having blank resignations, it suggests a law that prevents them from having blank resignations. What was the problem so far to publicly burn them, it was one of the contributions, and thus at least symbolically show that you are against it? On the other hand, every other solution is bad. The European Commission's grudge and their proposal does not exist because there is no uniform practice in Europe regarding elections, legal. In the European Union countries, there are probably all political systems that exist in the world, from a highly majority to a highly proportional one, with all possible variations, with one constituency, with five constituencies, with five hundred constituencies. It's all in Europe. Because of this there is no, there is the right colleague Krasic, this kind of practice and directive that will tell you – only such an electoral system is possible for us to join the EU. But there is something else, there is a principle of fair choice, there is a principle that citizens know what they say and there is a principle that their will cannot be distorted in this process of choice. What is the answer of our congregation to that? We say - I cannot blame the parties on the people's will after the elections, but I can blackmail citizens before the elections. We are not in the EU, except for Montenegro, which is forced in a similar way as we are to amend its electoral law. They could have 50% of the lists in a row, and the other 50% were determined by the parties. That was until the beginning of this year. One of the conditions in their European integration process was for their electoral law to change. Since they haven't found a smarter solution, they've got a closed list, on which as many votes as anyone gets, so many first terms go. But no other country in the world or in the EU has such a system. There's something called a closed list, a preferential vote. Citizens are given the opportunity to vote individually for MPs, if they wish, to create order on the list and that is the ultimate solution. Why can't we bring it into the congregation? Because we're six months away from the election, and that's a radical change in the electoral system. But why couldn't we do it in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2007? Is there any reason? I do not blame any of the ruling majority MPs because I am a participant in the process myself. You have been ignored by the party's tops for three years, ignoring the full demands that representatives of the parties from parliament had towards the tops of the ruling parties. "People, this is bad," this suggestion is repeated year after year, "we have to change this". They ignored and eventually avoided taking political responsibility for a bad solution. What is a government in one country more responsible than to regulate rules in the election process? Who is our government hiding from and forcing MPs of the ruling majority to sign behind a proposal that every minister knows about? Milan Markovic comes up on our heads every time he comes up here with his legal expertise, morals, and I don't know what it is, but he's not here today to solve the problem when there is a problem, but he's going to do it with Hope Kolundzi (I'm sorry to mention you, not personally) and MPs of the ruling majority. Now, that dishonesty will be the reason why this ruling majority can no longer progress in the process of European integration, not even by a millimeter, because that is fundamentally political unfairness. We are free of any law if this kind of political irresponsibility will be repeated year after year, instead of being a fundamental problem for Serbian politics... Look at us all, counting on ourselves, not wanting to offend anyone, do we think that the circle of people who deal with politics in Serbia is big enough? Why do we all say in principle – we need more people in politics, smarter, better than us, more educated, younger, older, faster, slower, all of them? This law reduces the circle of people who will deal with politics in Serbia to below 250, total. (President: Time. One more sentence. The basic condition to be found on the list of most parties in Serbia will be the ability for it or for it to suffer and be loyal at all costs, as without it it will not be found on this election list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54854	Thank you, Mr. Andric. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54855	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is May 12th, today's ruling coalition has entered the fourth year of power since the election. The election was May 11th. From today, the election year begins. Everything is appropriate and everything can be discussed, but if the election law changes in the election year, it cannot happen in any serious state. I understand your delay, the problems you've had, the wishes you've wanted to make through certain changes you've been making, etc., that you haven't been able to change the electoral law in time, but in the election year, the electoral law never changes. Most importantly, through a change of electoral law, you are knowingly in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A state that does not respect its constitution, MPs, a parliament that does not respect its own constitution does not respect its own people, its own state. Therefore, there is no one from the EU who insists on breaking the constitution in the election year. That's for sure. Do not think that we from the opposition do not communicate with the EU, with EU representatives. None of them said this was wanted. They have had objections and have requested that the issue of blank resignations be changed long ago and that members of the weaker sex be represented in a larger number. It's justified and it could have been entered, but in this second part that you're now trying to get through, you can't get in this way at all. This is counter-constitutional, and this will bring down a serious Constitutional Court. The elections held this way must be annulled if there is a Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We must show that we are a serious country and the European Union itself. We can't violate our own constitution because we didn't enter the procedure of changing the Constitution if we had to. In communication with the opposition, in particular, when we discussed this, the European Union met the political agreement of all political options to prepare for constitutional changes that would be made and adapted to new European laws and, of course, to the electoral law. This way we're making a circus out of our own state and we're acting very unserious, so someone can turn the phone and say, "Come on, change this, change that." Let's remember the Information Act, the Anti-Corruption Act, how could we have violated the Treaty with the European Union so that the Government wouldn't fall? We permanently violate the Constitution. Not us, but you from the ruling coalition, and we're helping you. All MPs are accomplices to the violation of the Constitution. Today, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated all day long. Yesterday, the Constitution was violated, every evening in public service shock shows, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated, gentlemen. Someone will answer for it. Today we have a campaign, here, a few minutes ago I watched at the Parliament Club "Dnevnik", yesterday I watched "Dnevnik" – someone promotes regions, as an anti-constitutional category. The ministers, vice-presidents of the government, are making promises to the municipalities of money, investment, large funds. From what? You don't have a dinar to give to the municipalities what follows them. People come out and say, you have 80% higher, you have 40%, you sign, you move in with us, Ratche there... Mayor, you leave New Serbia, you get a factory, you get 10,000 euros, you get this, you get that... Are you a normal people? What's this about? How can someone violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and publicly violate it without sitting here and fighting some constitutional changes here and adapting it to our Constitution and our laws? What the hell are the regions?- I'm sorry. Who said Nova Varosh is in Sandzak? Who said there was a Pryce in Sandzak? Who's running the campaign today that Preboy's in Sandzak? Are you out of your mind?- I'm sorry. Are you aware of what you're doing? You're harassing the public, you're going from apartment to apartment, and you're making people sign, you're promising a job, you're sharing stuff there, and so on. Well, is there anyone in the D.A. to stop it? There isn't, gentlemen. There's total chaos in this country. We're just looking, Pera, Zika, Mika and Janko getting arrested. That's all we're looking at. Do you remember when I spoke in my own time and when I was attacked – don't give Miskovic a travel economy, he ruined the travel economy because he bought the strongest businesses, reselled, ruined and buried. He buried insurance companies, banks, banking systems. He destroyed Serbia's financial market. I said, hang on a second, pull the handpiece, Miskovic, are you crazy, man? And the airline destroyed, "Yat". He destroyed everything, the store, the monopoly... What did you say? Let Mishka, he's building a government. He boasts that he created you and made you! He ruined everything. Now you're building regions. Just push. Now you will choose MPs from the list. So why is it a campaign? People are fighting to get results, to get into parliament. What about the municipalities where there's an 80% victory? To punish, the one with 2-3% vote will pass. Is that the electoral will of the citizens? This is not what the EU is forcing us to do, because no serious state in Europe has accepted it. How about the list? So Belgrade will have a majority in parliament. It's total Belgrade. All political parties will go to the largest polling bodies – Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and put everything at the top of the list. We'll have 60% of the people in Belgrade here. When will one Lebanese see an MP? When will a Surdulka see an MP? When will Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad see an MP? Never. When will one Shid see an MP in parliament? The whole of Shumadi has no minister, the whole of Pomoravlje has no minister, and now they won't have any MPs. So, what you're doing, it's totally freakish and you can't let it happen. Some appear here – we will support Europe for it. They always support, but not because of Europe, but because of something else. It's Europe, so they'll always support it when it thickens; they'll take off a little bit, and they'll always support it when it's thick. They unplugged a little, but will therefore take up pharmacy facilities, will take away Belgrade's travel companies. He'll take the fat one, and he'll cut off a piece of cake. You will always exercise power, someone will always come here to say – it is because of European integration. Which Europe makes us? Let Phil come in here and let him tell us we have to adopt this. Let him say we must break the Constitution. Are we a sovereign state? We spit on our own constitution. What does that look like? Madam President, as President of Parliament, you cannot allow this, this is a direct violation of the Constitution, and this is an automatic coup in this country. You're the President of Parliament, you have to respect, you took an oath. The President of the State must respect the Constitution. No one can violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, period. That can't be allowed. We don't need to be convinced about this. What kind of MPs should they go in order? So, why is there a campaign going on? So when you order those first ones, they'll sit and raise all four and enjoy themselves. So, what do we do? And they're gonna run there, stick up posters, and they're not gonna get anything. The tycoons will be able to make most of what they want and what is right for them and to buy votes in advance, and the people will fail. Threats of all kinds, stories of all kinds... Is there anything serious that can be solved in this country? It doesn't exist. That's right. We're all talking empty stories here, and when there's something to finally be done, no one has the power to cut it. You're all going under the company of that European Union. We are for the European Union, but we are not for breaking our own constitution, we are not for treading our own state, because this shows the European Union that we do not respect ourselves, that we are a people who float and direct who gets where and when what comes. (President: Time. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54856	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54857	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's important not to have the wrong impression that one of these solutions is contrary to the Constitution. I just want to remind myself of the decision of the Constitutional Court published in the “Official Messenger” No. 28/11. The main text of this decision has been in force since 26 April 2011 and is applicable since 26 April 2011. Therefore, this decision states, among other things, that the Constitutional Court considers that from the general right of citizens to run and directly elect MPs by a system of closed electoral lists, as well as from minimum democratic requirements necessary for the existence of truly free and direct elections, it may exercise the right of a certain number of voters to support the electoral list, but also the rule that, when assigning individual representative mandates, respect the orderly order of candidates to the electoral proposal, i.e. that the mandates are assigned according to the rank that the candidates occupy on the electoral list. It is not an obligation to respect the order of candidates on the election list that the political party essentially conducts the election of MPs in charge of the parliamentary mandates that belonged to the list. In this way, according to the Constitutional Court's assessment, not only does the principle of direct elections collapse itself, but the idea of a national team, i.e. citizens, is being devised. Direct elections with a proportionate distribution of representative mandates do not aim only to identify voters for a particular political programme or to gather them around a political idea. When they accept a voter list with their signature at the same time, their vote for the personal composition of the list, which they expect in the National Assembly, will consistently implement the programme behind which it stands. Even for the Constitutional Court, there is no doubt that the personalisation of the elections is far less pronounced in a proportional system with closed electoral lists, rather than in the majority elections. Therefore, obtaining individual mandates in order on the election list is a democratic achievement, according to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54858	I thank Mrs. Kolundjia. Mr. Ilic, you're well understood and Mrs. Kolundjia has specified something that was already argued yesterday. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54859	You know how, I'm extremely disappointed when I listen to the head of the leading political party here to interpret the Constitution in the way it suits it, and the Constitutional Court, according to this interpretation, turns out to be a party Constitutional Court. Are you, Mrs. Kolundjia, aware that you had to respect the Constitutional Court's decision that the mayor couldn't be a MP? Since you'd fall for the government, it doesn't matter at all. It doesn't have to be respected, this Constitutional Court will talk and won't answer, because it will be changed and it won't be. When it suits you, then the Constitutional Court must write you what you want. I remember the good of a gentleman, very influential at the top of the state, who once when we talked to him, I will turn to the Constitutional Court, no problem, it will end. If I have to appoint him, I will appoint him, and that judge of the Constitutional Court, and how and in any way, but it is not correct. Your Constitutional Court, when it suits you, makes one decision, and when it does not respond, makes another decision. Since you're principled, let's respect the decision immediately, as of Sunday, that the mayor can't be a MP. But the government will fall. Therefore, you interpret the Constitution as you will. The Constitution is the Holy Scriptures of a state, you know. The constitution can't be interpreted by anyone. There are people who are extremely understood in constitutional law; these people interpreted it and said that what we are trying to bring now is anti-constitutional and that it must change the Constitution. So let's not waste time, let's not deceive the public, let's be realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54860	Time. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54861	I allow one MP to tell other MPs - everyone, but I don't think it's right to refer to the judges of the Constitutional Court. This is where I read the Constitutional Court's decision. If the Constitutional Court considers that the provisions of the laws that we are now amending were contrary to the Constitution and that it is necessary, in order to be in accordance with the Constitution, to change them in the way we now propose, then I think it is okay if we call for a Constitutional Court decision and say that the basis for what we are doing today was, among other things, the opinion of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54862	Mr. Martinovic, you are not explicitly mentioned, but you feel called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54863	Thank you. I'd just like to contribute to this debate. We have come into a very strange situation: the electoral system in the Republic of Serbia, I think we are the curiosity in Europe and the world, not the creation of a legislator, but the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, there's no country in the world that has that kind of practice. The constitution prescribed that it was the National Assembly that prescribed the type and shape of the electoral system. Mrs. Kolundjia, you do not change this law electoral system, it remains proportionate and it continues to treat the Republic of Serbia as one electoral unit. What are you changing? You are changing the system for granting already won seats in the election. It will no longer be allocated by allowing political parties to do so directly, but by order on the list. What you haven't been able to explain so far is what citizens get directly. So far, those who were 250 and 150 could be MPs. Under the new system, it won't be possible anymore. Citizens will vote again for the political party list. The ballot, Mrs Kolundzija, will not list the names of MPs, as it has never been before, but there will be a summary electoral list, which will be written in font 10. You may think that the citizens will really know who to vote for. They will vote again for political party candidates. Only now will political headquarters be able to have much more influence on the choice of MPs than this has ever been the case. I find it very interesting that you, in defense of your proposal under this Act, are not calling on the Constitution, but rather making a logical move, you are referring to the Constitutional Court's decision. Excuse me, where does the Constitution say that what the SRS is proposing is forbidden?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54864	Time. Citizens are absolutely getting an insight into who the most likely future MP is for every political offer. That's what Mrs. Kolundji explained on several occasions. Peter Petrovic has a word. Here you go. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. I answered. I was registered in the electronic system when I answered. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54865	Madam President, Your Honor, ladies of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54866	Excuse me, Mr. Petrovich. You just called, since I gave my word, believe me. Mr. Petrovich, one moment. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, you are not Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija's lawyer. If Mrs. Hope Kolundzija thinks I'm wrong, she has the right to be a representative of the Proposer to say so. Don't be an interpreter of what Mrs. Hope Kolundji was about to say. You have now violated the Rules of Procedure by leaving the role of the speaker of parliament and becoming a speaker. I don't mind if you talk about the bill, but then you have to be on the speaker list. You have no right to enter into the debate from the chair's seat. You may have the opposite of mine, but then you don't speak from the chair's seat, you sit in the bench and then we can detach. Now, it seems to me that in one really drastic way, you abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54868	Mr. Martinovic, I am obliged to remove delusions to make the session logical. So you can't take the role of a speaker to the role of a technical person, because that would mean that something called a specific computer would sit down, be placed in this place. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54869	I'm sorry, I wouldn't get involved, but I have to point out an injury to article 27 that you just did. (President: Please, that member's injury has been pointed out and you have no right. No, now you've done it. You just told all of us it's your job to get rid of delusions. I really don't see that from Article 27, which relies on other members whose application is required there, wherever you are at the opportunity and you have an obligation to remove any delusions, especially when it comes to the measure of things. Now you can say, when it comes to procedure, that you have not violated the Rules of Procedure, and that is to remove error from your side. The assembly will then declare that in the voting day. But you can't take away the delusion of the measure of things. Now you've committed that violation, because you've made it public. That's the point, and I won't be long. If you do not agree with me that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Assembly to plead in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54870	In accordance with Article 21, Mr. Aligrudic, I am in charge of the session and I am obliged to monitor and direct the course of the session. If you think that the injured member you called and you want us to plead, well, that's what's going to happen, and we're going to make a statement in the voting day. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54871	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I have been registered on the list of registered speakers as an MP who is against the law, immediately to say that the Members of the Single Serbia are against this law, in principle, but if it is corrected by certain amendments, we will certainly vote for this law; we will not be an obstacle and that, God, we do not enter the EU because the three MEPs have not voted in favour of such a law. But what I want to point out in my brief presentation, given the time left, is that we spent a lot of time here calling for decisions of the Constitutional Court. We had comments both for and against. I just want to say that there is one constitution in Serbia that is valid; there is also Article 102(2). A constitution that is valid. We don't have a better constitution at this point until we bring it in. The Constitution gives rise to a way of bearing resignations, and we are now regulating this proposal by law. What I think as a lawyer... And I believe that many law school students who are following these transfers, who are now completing the university, will be surprised that one provision in the bill reads this way: the MP must, if he personally gives up his resignation, verify his birth signature on resignations, where he writes, before that, I submit an irrevocable resignation. Please, there are a lot of fellow lawyers in the Democratic Party and so on, please, please, an interpretation of where your birth certificate is certified? On the other hand, does it have to be within three days, that I have to resign which I have certified through some authorised representative? If I can give authority to represent me before a court in some property-law dispute whose value is several million dinars or euros, and that authority that was given once lasts a year, two or more, and I can't sign the authority of an authorised person that my resignation, certified before the competent state authorities, can take after six months, after a year, etc., it is, in my opinion, legal dissent. But I don't want to hang around it, not take too much time. When it comes to the coalition lists and the order of registered candidates for MPs, what will be done with the coalition contract signed, certified by the court and handed over to the Republic Election Commission, assuming that the coalition will win a certain number of mandates, and divided by a percentage – 20, 30? If more mandates or fewer mandates are won, and on the list of registered candidates for MPs is a different order, one of the coalition partners will not get the right to a number of MPs, according to the coalition contract. If it's a contract, it has legal power. If it is certified by the court and if it produces a legal fact, it is a breach of the contractual will which has been certified before the competent judicial authorities by the Republic of Election Commission. We must accept the amendment given by the PUPS and the JS, I think it also gave New Serbia, that order should be as set out in the coalition agreement. And that, if someone stops the term of office by a particular party, the mandate retains the party that is meeting coalition partners in the elections. If we do not accept that, we directly influence the citizens' electoral will, we change the citizens' electoral will, because these citizens still gave a certain percentage of the votes to a party designated in the coalition agreement. On the other hand, there is talk of motivation and demotivation of people who will be candidates on election lists for MPs. You think someone in Medvedja, in my Rijeka, in Levc or in the Shop, etc. to run and raise votes so that someone from Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad would be an MP if they were on the list for the first 20 or 30? They're stories for little kids. Therefore, there must be motivation for every MP, candidate for MP to be in his constituency, municipality, local community, etc. propagating the party's programme to which it belongs and for which it is fighting, in order to obtain the right to a maximum number of mandates. Please, in the light of the proposal for this law, it says that we do not comply with any EU law, but we agree with it on the basis of the opinion of the Venice and other commissions. I ask one logical question – what happens if this committee gives a second opinion after six months? In practice, we had such cases that one opinion was given, remember, when it comes to education in Serbia, so after a year or two, they did a little bit of correcting that opinion and gave another opinion. Therefore, nowhere does it make us have to be, except these blank resignations. As far as Unique Serbia is concerned, it is not a problem. Is the problem just this way of verifying and way of handing over resignations. When it comes to the order of mandates, we would have to accept these amendments that we have proposed together with the PUPS, because that way we will not change the electoral will of the citizens who went to the elections. Any other solution directly affects the election will of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54872	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, and be prepared Mr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54873	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when I was preparing to discuss this topic, I read that 1,200 texts, articles, authorial analyses on electoral legislation and amendments to the electoral law were published in our media alone this year. This great public interest on the one hand shows how important the problem and important law are being discussed today. On the other hand, this great public interest shows that there are two kinds of comments: some are professional and professional, they are written by professional people who understand the electoral legislation, and on the other hand there is absolutely no knowledge of the electoral process and of the electoral procedure in Serbia. We have had the opportunity to hear that some politicians, at least as journalists say, want to manage the parliamentary lists and determine who will be on the parliamentary lists, and, reportedly, when this law is passed, politicians and political parties will have less interference with the choice of MPs. For those who do not know how political life works and for those who do not know what political theories look like – everywhere in the world, and in Serbia, political parties draw up a list, it is known before the election that members of a particular political party will be on the list, and it is the citizens who vote for the list and determine how many MPs will enter the parliament. There are various electoral laws, majority, proportional. There are so-called. open and closed lists; our citizens may not even know what is open, and what are closed lists, may have a problem understanding why this list is now open to political parties and closed to voters. Because according to the current election legislation, the political party which determines which candidates from the list will enter parliament; that is not determined by citizens, their influence is reduced to the least possible because everything depends on the will of the political party. When citizens want to decide specifically which MP, name and last name, will enter parliament, then we are talking specifically about the majority electoral system. Only then and so do the citizens have the opportunity to vote by name and last name for a man in a constituency. We have been through the evolution of electoral legislation in Serbia. Unfortunately, we started with the most liberal laws at the time when democracy in Serbia was on very fragile feet. We had this evolution of electoral legislation where the choice of MPs was very liberal and moved from the majority to the absolute majority until we got to this proportional electoral system. But in my discussion, I also have to answer some questions that have been answered here. First we heard the question, are we normal? I have to answer - we are, what we want and who asks the question. On the other hand, we heard a question about who is asking us to do this from the EU and that none of us from the EU are asking for this. True, this does not require any of us from the EU except Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Great Britain, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Slovenia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Cyprus, which are all 27 countries of the European Union. We want to accept certain declared principles not because one of us is asking us to, but because we want to meet certain standards, and these standards have been met by countries and countries with developed democracies. We heard a sentence that the tycoons would be able to form a government in advance. I must disappoint all participants in the discussion, the tycoons will only be able to visit those who have decided to strike hunger for their failure in the election. No other tycoon influence on Serbia's political life will be felt. This is not a law on the selection of MPs, if that's how you discuss it. Then this is the state of the political parties. Because if political parties fear that someone who has money will be able to buy their MPs, one way or another, it speaks more about the state of political parties. Then it is the law on what is happening in political parties, and then it speaks of the fears of these parties and the quality of their people and those who run in the elections, not the law on electoral legislation in Serbia, not the state of democratic freedoms that we have reached. If this is the largest possible range of election legislation in the pre-election year and I now remind all those who are afraid whenever I go to the congregation library and take stenographic notes there and remind them what they said about their candidates for the president of Serbia... I'm not going to quote them so I won't give them the satisfaction of the replica, I'm just going to quote the sentences we've heard here. It was said: "When this gentleman from Serbia's heart wins the presidential election, Boris Tadic will heat the sun all over the forest and warm all citizens of Serbia, all patriots in this country, the sun of freedom, because we have run for president of Serbia, which will be dealt with by the democratic regime and Boris Tadic. “ After only a month and a half, we learned that this man was the worst spy, American, English, that he was not coming out of foreign embassies. Today we heard many other disqualifications on his account. A reminder can be really embarrassing. I understand the fear of those who fear when I enter the library and keep looking and asking – was Milivojevic in the library, did he come, did he take any books? And what were we saying then? Oh, dear mother, she's going to read again what we talked about! I have to remind you, because the reminder is the mother of success. I wish you success, and that is why I keep reminding you and always perfecting you, and I will keep telling you what you used to say about each other, and what you're saying today, and why you're actually afraid of such electoral legislation. Because maybe after the next parliamentary elections, when some of them come back to you, we'll find out that they're not really that bad, that they're actually the best in the world. Or maybe we'll find out, if someone leaves you, that it's the worst possible man in the world, and you didn't know it, and we were so nice to point it out. As for the finding that this will be the Belgrade Parliament and the Belgrade City Assembly, I must say, yes, there is a problem with the motivation of voters, but also of those who are candidates on election lists to participate in the elections if we look at it in a way that only 250 candidates who appear in the elections will participate in political life through the building of parliament. There are, as far as I know, in this country and certain authorities of the executive government, a political party will probably be able to reward that city where it has achieved a good election result by participating a man from that city in the executive government. It is mentioned earlier that there is no minister from central Serbia. I could accept the fact that I live in Ireland or Greenland, but I'm from Kruševac and I know that Verica Kalanovic is the Minister of Trieste. Trieste is a beautiful city in Pomoravlje, in Shumadia. I know Nebojsa Bradić from Kruševac, a beautiful town from which I, in the past, was a minister of culture. I know that Zoran Stankovic, also a minister, is not a minister from Belgrade, but from the village of Tegovište. You want me to tell you how many Krushevac people are in the most responsible places in the country right now? BIA director Sasa Vukadinovic is from Kruševac, BIA deputy director is from Kruševac, special prosecutor for organised crime from Kruševac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Miodrag Djidic is from Kruševac. So Kruševac is stronger than Belgrade, and you will learn this over time, just listen to me carefully, just don't interrupt me, and you will learn how powerful and great a city Kruševac is. So political parties will always be able to vote and achieve the election result properly. I am absolutely sure that we in the Democratic Party have no fear when it comes to the election of MPs in this way, because the MPs will be elected so that we know in advance who are MPs, and the MPs of the Democratic Party are not out of interest, but out of ideals, beliefs and faith that we can only change Serbia better if we look to those who are better than us, who have achieved greater reach, greater civilizational progress, who have made a greater contribution to establishing a European system of values and democracy. If we look worse than ourselves, I'm afraid we won't get far. In the end, for all those who fear that someone in their ranks will betray them, I will remind them of the verses of the great poet Đura Jaksic, who says, behold, for my colleague who asks what she says: “A million souls should sweat until the weeds that you, with a few paid ushers, have sown upon this beautiful land. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54874	Mr. Samardzic, you have your word. Then Mrs. Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54875	Dear Members of the People, Madam President, we have been discussing a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law for the second day, for no particular reason. Namely, the most controversial members who were the subject of criticism by many opposition MPs, including those who would miraculously vote in favour of these proposals, even though they were criticised, actually came from another sphere. They came, in fact, from the Serbian government's Action Plan, which was made at the end of last year to correct some of the mistakes that the European Commission's annual report pointed to. It somehow turns out that the European Union, and we see now, and all its Member States, is taking great care of Serbia's electoral system, first and foremost of Article 102(2). The constitution of Serbia, which has established, therefore, that the MP is free to make his mandate available to the party that put him on the list. It is simply a man who wonders why so much dust has risen around that member and why the European Union is now so active in our country's counseling to remove this deficit. In fact, this is a situation that reminds us of a rock rolling from the hills, so it hits a little snow, so it turns into a snowball and starts an avalanche until it reaches the slope. In fact, in the European Union and its institutions, few people deal with Serbia. It is the theme of a small group of people in charge of the Western Balkans, who simply maintain their own organisation, the European Union, regarding Western Balkan control. It is not so serious that we would accept such blasphemous suggestions because they did not seriously consider or come up with it. At the very end of the line, the text in the argument itself says – there is no relevant regulation of the European Union with which this law should be brought into line. Of course, there is no such regulation at the level of EU legislation, nor electoral legislation concerning elections for the European Parliament, nor at the level of Member States' legislation. It's just one fictional thing. I don't believe she's made up in Brussels, she's made up here, and then she's in consultation with the people who made that report last fall saying it's a very important thing, which should lead to the right ending, and that's the change in the Constitution, the change in Article 102, paragraph 2. The constitution, and then we'll see what with the Constitution, how we'll crown it further, until it's left alone by the plunger. So that's the situation. You have no serious situation in the European Union today, neither in Parliament nor anywhere else, and this seems to us, given the number of texts that have appeared in public, the number so-called. experts who have given their opinion, statements by politicians, etc., that this is the most important thing. You know, when you leave for Brussels, when you land at the airport, you're first met by a police officer to whom you give your passport and he asks if Serbia has abolished the blank resignations. Then you get in a cab to go to the hotel, and the taxi driver asks you if Serbia has abolished the blank resignations. When you arrive at the porter's hotel porter's office, he asks if Serbia has abolished the blank resignations. That's such an important question. Finally, you meet in the European Parliament a parliamentarian who speaks Serbian with a Slovenian accent and he asks if Serbia has abolished the blank resignations. That's how it works from our point of view. Actually, there's nothing going on there. We were completely free to accept this proposal or, as is true here, the recommendation of the Venice Commission and the corresponding body of the OSCE simply as a recommendation, i.e. Maybe we don't accept it. No, it happened quite the opposite with us. We, first of all, are putting this law under emergency procedure. Please, the bill of law also existed in February of this year! We could have adopted him in March of the first regular session. No, we postponed it for mid-May because it was supposed to be checked at the Venice Commission and with the relevant OSCE committee. So first, before the MPs themselves, they got the law and gave their opinion, as it says here, in the light of the recommendation. It is taken here completely literally, that the recommendation must be converted into a warrant, and that order into a provision to amend the relevant member of the law. So it's completely irrational, tragic and comic at the same time. When we look at the very essence of things, it looks about like this: namely, this Article 102. Constitution, attitude two, no one came up with evil intentions. He may seem strange at first sight, but he has simply been the result of our parliamentaryism since 2000, or perhaps since 1990, and there have been a lot of these "flights" and changes in mandates. So, it has been a consequence of Serbian parliamentaryism since it became a multi-party parliamentarianism. A mechanism has been introduced in the Constitution that warns, perhaps not in the best way but certainly in a certain way, that bad practice that has brought this parliamentaryism a very bad one, especially in the period from 2001 to 2003, and then in the later period. And today brings a lot of bad things. Believe that no one in Brussels, nor in the Venice Commission, nor in this OSCE committee was involved in an analysis of the situation in Serbia that caused the defence mechanism. The defence mechanism is in fact the defence of young, weak parliamentaryism in Serbia and parliament itself. If MPs were allowed to cross, as the practice itself has shown, from one club to another, from one party to another, then it was really an alarm, one alarm bell to do something. And what was done was done, that member was brought in. Moreover, this article is formulated in a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, That provision of Article 2 is not an imperative provision. Read it carefully. Its contents are optional – the MP is free to do so. So it's not a commitment. The reason, of course, is that the parties, as the most important participants in political life, still need to take responsibility for the development and defence of parliamentaryism in Serbia. This is a concrete situation for Serbia, nobody knows it, not Venice, not Brussels, not any country, and in its own way responds to the matter. What have we done? We have resorted to one doctrine that says – not imperative, we want a free mandate because it is the result of liberal democracy etc. First of all, we've heard a lot here today, the big question is what this free term of early liberalism in England is like in the 17th and 18th centuries today. It's perfectly normal that he's different than he was two, three centuries ago. You know, with equal voting rights, there was mass democracy. On such occasions, only strong organisations could sum up major social interests and lead politics, both in parliament and outside parliament, and these are parties. If the parties don't get tough, if the party system doesn't get tough, you won't have parliamentaryism. At this point, it is more important, although this seems paradoxically, to preserve and defend the party in Serbia than MPs, because the MP has become a source of interference with parliamentaryism, with many examples of flying, skipping, corruption, etc. The only way to do that is for the party to discipline the MP. So it's a constitutional provision as a general constitutional provision, formulated in a university way. She doesn't have to do it, she can do it. And the MP doesn't have to do that, to make his mandate available to the party, but he can. At the very end of the line, the practical application was very charming, but the institute had to be preserved because it was necessary to preserve and defend parliamentaryism itself. There's our problem. We don't have a dispute over whether we're for an imperative or a free term. It doesn't exist. We have a dispute over whether we will make this room a stock exchange or a parliament. We are in favour of making it a parliament and therefore Article 102(2) must remain. At the end of the line, and the Constitutional Court, otherwise a very unreliable institution, will have the opportunity to deal with the law if it is passed as you suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54876	Thank you. National MP Bajram Šehovic is not there either. MP Zoran Shami has a word. Let MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54877	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. I think that in the debate so far, several speakers have carefully analysed the legal aspects of the text offered. Although, I must say, I'm a little surprised that Mr. Aligrudić and Mr. Martinovic have been so caught up in respect of the Constitution. The constitution is obvious in our practice of Alajbeg's straw and unless some law is in accordance with the Constitution, so much worse under the Constitution. But, well, I'm not going to talk about legal issues, I'm going to try to analyze the bill in terms of common sense and practicality in application. Obviously, the only two serious things that change there are the question of how mandates are shared, whether they must be in order, and the matter of blank resignations; everything else is some petty alignment with the Constitution. To be clear, I mean sharing mandates in order does not solve a problem that is said to be solved, which will say that citizens should know who they are voting for, but that is why the parties are causing ugly problems. You'll see, I'll give you some examples. First, the parties, as far as I know, and I have long followed the elections in Serbia, for one twenty years, and so far have in some way stimulated their members before the elections themselves that if they achieve the above-average results in their midst compared to the party results, they will have the upper hand in obtaining the mandate. I remind you, for example, that the Democratic Party, I don't know at which elections, whether the last or last, even had such a rank-list that it seems to me that the first on the list was all arranged in alphabetical order, making it clear to its voters that they were all equal and that, by some party criteria, they would assign mandates. You will have the following situation: you have, for example, an assessment of the party that will take 30 seats; no candidate for MPs under 35-40 will move his finger in the campaign, but, which is also quite certain, none of the first 25 on the list will also move his finger in the campaign, because he is certainly an MP. Furthermore, is it clear to you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that none of your current ministers will be able to be an MP in the next term? Why? Now let me explain why. Because you can't be a minister and MP at the same time, because the Assembly is being built before the election of the new government, because you're going to have to, unless... For example, you will give Mr Petrovic or Mr Sutanovac (it would be natural if they were not on the 88th list, but somewhere in the first ten) a mandate; they will immediately have to resign because they are still ministers, and they will no longer be able to be MPs. So, in the next draw, they're not MPs anymore. Mr. Dacic will also not be able to be an MP, even if your party is in opposition, for example. I don't know if you've thought about it. I'm afraid not. I'm just saying some practical things. Secondly, I am against the introduction of legal standards that can be escipated with two dribblings left and two dribblings right. I'll tell you how. The party won, say, 30 terms. The first 30 become MPs. The next day, out of the 30 first 28, they resign, becoming MPs for the next 28. After such three rounds, the party will eventually elect the MPs it wants. What did we do? Nothing, "we've been painting for nothing." As for the blank resignation, you know, I otherwise claimed, regardless of the Constitution, that it was a moral question. While the system is proportionate, it is the party to whom the mandate remains. That mandate, in my opinion, should undoubtedly belong to a foreigner. Of course, it is the right of MPs to argue with the party, to agree for objective, subjective or not what reasons it does not agree with the party's policy, to leave the party, but then have the mandate to return the party, because the citizens voted for the party's programme as it is. However, you lift the issue and actually introduce, as some colleagues have said, open the market for mandates. I can tell that it will be strong, as the Croat brothers would say, probatively be an MP in the future. You know how? I leave the parliamentary club, I support some ruling majority for some money, and then I support the opposition to bring down that ruling majority, too, for some money, so one four rounds in four years, and I'm good. So, I'm afraid what you're proposing is not good. By the way, as far as gentlemen from the Venice Commission are concerned, I met them very well at a time when the Constitutional Charter of the famous state union of Serbia-Montenegro was created. I know what they know and what they can do, and it's not too much praise. I advise them to start changing the electoral system, for example, in the UK. Have their parliament send recommendations on how the election system should look in the UK. One more thing, and I'm going to end up here, especially from the mouth of various callers, experts or whatever it is called, is the importance of a free term. It's the ultimate thing. I told those experts at the time -- you know, a few years ago in Germany, in Bundestag, in the German House, which has 600 MPs, the ruling majority had 301 and the opposition 299. All the laws in that Bundestag were passed, four years passed from 301 to 299. Do you really think that the mandates of that 301 MPs are so free, so, my God, today I am free to vote against the stand that my ruling majority or the unruly minority represents? It won't be like that. So let's call the real name of the right thing, and the tendency that in this country after a one-party system, then a multi-party system needs to be introduced, where some self-ranking saints are going to rule (and that is, I'm afraid, a tendency), I don't think we should go into that if we have two grams of brain. All in all, please advise that what they propose to withdraw, or at least let them think about what their parties are going to do tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54878	Thank you. I will give you my word, Mr. Martinovic, just to say that it is the order of MPs: first Aleksandar Jugovic, then Mrs. Radeta, then Mr. Stanimirovic. I didn't get a good look at the list, that's the order. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must replicate to the distinguished Professor Shami. He probably didn't have a bad intention, but maybe he's unsettledly formulating what he's trying to say. He said why my colleague Aligrudić and I were stuck in respect of the Constitution. We're stuck, Mr. Shami, because if we Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia don't stick to that Constitution, then I don't know who else is going to do it for us. We have today, but not just today, heard the argument that our legislation should change because, my God, it's been brought yet, imagine, back in 2000! Here, I will now give you some examples of serious democratic states, EU member states, which do not think that way. In the UK, you have certain legal and political documents and certain constitutional conventions that have been in force since the 13th century. That's when St. Sava was alive. You have the Netherlands Constitution, which was brought in in 1815. You have the Constitution of Belgium, which was brought in 1831. No one in these countries thinks to say – do you know when it was the beginning of the 19th century? That 1815 constitution was remembered by Karajorgia. The one from 1831 remembered Prince Milos. In our country, if the law is passed two years ago, it was passed back in 2009. It's unserious, it's playing with the state. I ask you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, how in 2008 did you not align the Law on the Selection of People's MPs with the Constitution, which was brought in 2006, but you do so in 2011? How come you didn't mind then? How come you didn't notice that it was supposed to be a bad article 84? The law on the election of MPs, that it was supposed to be in breach of the Constitution, but that it would take another three years for you to understand that? Your argument is very naive, very transparent. You are, in fact, trying to hide the simple fact that all of what we are doing today and what we are talking about today is the fruit of the pressure of imaginary experts, not even from the EU, from some alleged Venice Commission. We do not deal with standards, we deal with the opinion of individuals who consider themselves to be experts in constitutional law and political system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54880	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54881	Dear President, I just want to say that it is very difficult to settle if someone says it – it is not your argument that the Law was passed in 2000, and in the meantime the Constitution was changed in 2006, so why do you have to change the Law? At the same time, it is said - if the Constitution was adopted in 2006, why didn't you change it in 2007? So I don't know how to answer those questions that in themselves rule out each other. So we are changing this law, among other things, because we are harmonising it with the Constitution that was adopted in 2006. We also change this law because we want to build a society that promotes laws, improves political and legal life. Without any attempt to deny that fact, we, and not just these laws, are making and changing them because we want to comply with what they are the general standards that apply in the EU. Without wanting to hide, on the contrary, we openly say, we are changing these laws and making it because we want Serbia to become an EU member, that is, at this stage, to gain candidate status. So we're not hiding anything and we're not hiding behind who we're hiding, we're talking very openly about the reasons why we're changing these laws. There's only criticism left, which you don't have to accept the answer to, why we haven't done it before. We've been doing some other laws, by some of the priorities that we've been given, and we just haven't arrived to do everything at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54882	Mr. Shami, replica to Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54883	Mr. Martinovic, you certainly know that I am not a lawyer and thank you for teaching. Looking at what's going on in this country, I got the impression that our history started in 2008, when we started a new government in the future. Before that, I doubt we had any history at all. Anyway, thank you for teaching.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54884	Mr. Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, the matter is very simple, of two things one is correct: or it is a member of 84. The Law on the Election of People's MPs was unconstitutional in 2008 when the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was in force, which is now valid or not unconstitutional. If he was unconstitutional, then that means he was unconstitutional in 2008 when you set up the parliamentary majority. What can an ordinary lawyer conclude? Well, that the parliamentary majority was established in a way contrary to the Constitution, because it was educated in accordance with a law that later turned out to be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course the law isn't unconstitutional. This is about you not having the need to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia at all, it is absolutely consistent. You only had to prescribe the terms, it was your sole obligation under the Constitution, under which the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party from whose election lists he was elected. This resulted from Article 102. The RS Constitution. But you thought not to prescribe the terms, but to suspend the freedom of the Messengers of the people. It now turns out, when a man observes a common sense, that the state of Serbia has no other problem than how MPs will be elected. It's no problem that we have a huge number of unemployed, or that young people who don't have money can't get school, or that sick people, if they don't have money, can't be treated. None of this is a problem in Serbia, but under which system mandates will be assigned. I'm sorry, that's not true. These are essential problems that interest citizens. You didn't answer those problems. You're in public spin. The people say: “We do not have bread, ” you say to him:“ Fine, but you will have the right to choose the messengers in a different way. ” The students tell you, "They're high school fees, we can't pay them," and you say, "Okay, we'll comply with the Venice Commission's opinion." How is it that in some situations you respect the Constitutional Court's decision and other independent institutions, and in some other situations you do not? When the Anti-Corruption Agency tells you that an MP can't be the president of the municipality, you say it doesn't matter, and now we have to respect the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54886	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54887	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, President, I am not so sure that Serbian democratic society is ready to face the problem of immorality and tycoon interests in a situation where an MP could be a slave for sale. I don't want to offend anyone, but the recent past proves this my claim. Remember how Karic made a parliamentary party, and he did not participate in the elections. It is devastatingly democratic that people sitting in this parliament in the pre-election campaign as a programme highlight anti-European beliefs, and then, when they create their new party, they advocate, and only verbally, for Europe. It's a voter scam. In modern democracies, such people, the shifters, do not remain without a mandate, that is correct, but their policy-making loses all meaning because they are despised and rejected, so their appearance in any subsequent election turns into an indignity. The Serbian Renewal Movement went through an extremely difficult period in its political functioning: crime at the Ibaric Master's Office, assassination in Budva, arrests and beatings. We could not even dream that after October 5th, we would be struck by the dirty blow of the coalition partners at the time: the response of the state summit at the request of the Serbian Renewal Movement to take over the BIA and to open the files was very fast, and the SPO was slightly executed – we were kidnapped by ten MPs and everything was done by secret structures to make the SPO politically marginalized. It is clear that MPs can be a tool for the objectives of certain stakeholders. There are first tycoons, who would love to have certain laws in the congregation brought to their advantage and for their own sake. It follows that if we want the MP to be the absolute owner of his mandate, it would be necessary to open secret police files and conduct an investigation into illegally acquired wealth of Serbian tycoons. The parallel structures of the secret police should also be disbanded. What Serbia must first of all be cured of is the declarative and cheap pawning of certain political parties for programming platforms that are in no way being held. There is no idea of decentralisation unless there are some towns or municipalities in parliament. Today in the Serbian Parliament, more than 30 municipalities do not have their representatives. We in the Serbian Renewal Movement know best what a political blow means through the abduction of our people, personnel and MPs. Many MPs in this parliament used to be in the Serbian Renewal Movement. If there were an obligation for MPs to come to parliament in the Bermudas, and those who changed political parties, it seems to me that parliament would look like a beach. The Serbian Renewal Movement will support these amendments to the law, as recommended by the Venice Commission, from the belief that it will at least make us do some other reforms that would essentially change our relationship and our commitment to the state. By no chance, if there were no Government Action Plan, which is conditioned by the EU, it would seem to me that we would never think of a restitution law. So we need to Europeanise Serbia from the inside so that Europe doesn't see us as an orphan who has enough credit or help. That way no one will treat us like a partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54888	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when hearing debates of MPs who will vote for this law are merely confirming that political parties should be the owners of parliamentary mandates, because it is absolutely certain that all those who will vote for this law do not think that the proposed solutions are good. After all, fellow MPs are saying today that these are not good solutions, but as party soldiers they will vote for these solutions. Listening to their party's views is absolutely fine, because they are sitting here as MPs because their political parties, based on their political programmes and based on the election campaign, have received these mandates. Let's remind ourselves of what happened before, on this so-called. The European way, this today's ultimatum and the law that is being discussed today. Eleven years no budget in Serbia can be passed without the consent of the IMF; higher education takes place under the Bologna Declaration; military reform is carried out according to NATO standards; the judiciary has been fully translated into an Anglo-Saxon system; privatisation is done according to European standards, that is, that is: sugarcan – one euro; foreign banks have replaced domestic banks. I am now addressing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – respected citizens, I ask you, is any of you satisfied that the IMF does not allow you to raise pensions in your country of Serbia? Are you happy, respected citizens, that because of the Bologna Declaration in your country Serbia you cannot educate your children and that about 3,000 students are left without the possibility of continuing schooling in colleges? Are you comfortable with military reform according to NATO standards that slowly lead us to NATO by Minister Sutanovac and other representatives of the regime? These are, you remember, respected citizens, since the assembly majority seem to have forgotten, those who committed aggression and killed Serbian citizens. Are you, respected citizens of Serbia, satisfied that you have lost your jobs because of European standards, that your factories have been sold out for one euro and that millions of people have lost their jobs, and in the last three years, how long has this government, Tadic, headed by Serbia, left 300,000 people out of work? Are you satisfied, respected citizens of Serbia, that because of the European path that Serbia is leading you into the situation that because you cannot repay credit to foreign banks you have to sell houses and apartments? Of course not. What are we discussing today? Today, we are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, by the exclusive order of the European Commission, or the EU. This warrant was given to the Serbian state not to discuss it, but to "take or leave" in principle. When we talked on the committee, or working group, that was, like, discussing this bill, or another draft, we found out that we didn't know who was writing this text of the proposal, then the draft. We have also established that it is true that this is done on the orders of the European Commission and the EU, but that it is not popular to speak openly because it creates an otter of Serbian citizens towards the EU. We also found that Serbia has received particularly rigorous conditions due to insufficient, incomplete co-operation with The Hague tribunal and Kosovo and Metohija. That's the truth that Serbian citizens should know. Not to say now which of the colleagues who took part in the commission said all this, but these are absolutely accurate allegations. Well, then it's interesting when Mrs. Kolundjia, as a representative of the Proposer... And it is particularly interesting why MPs are legislators of this law, why it is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such as for all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or for the largest number of laws, why this hot potato has been put into the hands of the assembly majority, but that is their problem. It is an interesting explanation that citizens, Mrs Kolundzija said yesterday, and also Mrs Djukic Dejanovic today, when she tried to replicate, although she had no right to do so to her colleagues, Martinovic, will now know who they are voting for, which MPs will represent them in parliament. I don't know if you listen to yourself when you say it. How will the citizens now or ever know which MPs will represent them in parliament? Citizens can know which party they're voting for, so they'll be informed eventually. That is, they want the party to represent them through its MPs in parliament. How will a citizen, when rounding up the Black Grass election list, have the guarantee that he will be represented by a Black Grass MP? Quite the opposite of that. This is a completely unspeakable explanation that they tried to impose on us here. I will also remind, on April 21st, when it was the day of public reading or public hearing, as you call it, the bill of this law, the same evening in "The Diaries" we were informed that on that morning Slobodan Homen took the bill to the Venice Commission, that is, their law they wrote, took to say – here, our dear, we have fully accepted this. And then you make a farce and you hold some kind of public debate about it. All this says that Serbia, unfortunately, is not a sovereign state, because in Serbia we do not pass the laws as we wish, we do not bring them in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, but by the orders of any committee. The European Commission's 2010 progress report on Serbia begins with a sentence -- constitutional and legal provisions that do not comply with European standards remain in force. So, this European Commission tells you that the Constitution is not in line with European standards, and then you accept it for granted and you say – what do we care about the Constitution, when the European Commission says we are going to change the laws and step roughest footing the Constitution. The commander said, there's no god. This is a disgrace and shame and scandal of what you are doing in the country of Serbia! Who did you call in time for this public debate? Representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Council of Europe, representatives of the European Commission, USAID, etc. Now, let me remind you, why you did not remind them of the Helsinki Final Act of 1 August 1975, which says: “The participating countries will mutually respect sovereign equality and individuality, as well as all rights which are characteristic and which embrace sovereignty, especially the right of every country to international equality, territorial integrity, freedom and political independence. They will also mutually respect the right of another country to freely choose and develop its political, social, economic and cultural system, as well as the right to adopt its laws and regulations. “ Ladies and gentlemen of the congregation, read this from time to time. Don't humiliate the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia so much. There were comments here yesterday that some political parties have so many good staff that they can fill out a list not only of 250, but of a thousand, if necessary, candidates for MPs; and then there was a comment that we or someone who opposes these unconstitutional changes to the law are afraid that we will not have enough quality lists, enough moral people, etc. So, let's go visit... First of all, no one, at least not the SRS, is afraid of the possibility of providing 250 quality personnel for the future parliamentary list. You see the good and the parliamentary group of the current Serbian Radical Party and you see as well as how much we know and know and how much we contribute to the work in this Parliament. Let's remind ourselves of some other fears. He asked someone, it seems to me, Zoran Krasic, did not respond to Mrs Kolundžija, how it was left without a mandate on the basis of Ferzo Celovic's blank resignation. He's still asking through the Constitutional Court to return that term, so we'll see if the Constitutional Court respects the Constitution, but we don't believe he will. Let's remind ourselves that Bane Ivkovic kidnapped the Socialists from a number of mandates because he then needed Djindjic's government for support, so they bought the group. At the time, Serbian Radical Party MPs were the loudest in opposing this because we never speak anything that is of a daily political character or that is in our personal interest, but something that is the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party. We remember a time when there were 308 MPs in the National Assembly instead of 250. So there were over 50 MPs more than the number of MPs needed under the Constitution and that exist under the Constitution in the Assembly. Why? Because the Democratic Party forced the DSS MP group out of parliament, and then the court returned the DSS, and then Gašo Knezevic and Stevan Lilic, otherwise known plagiarists and one and the other, said they were in legal error. Imagine, doctors of science, professors of law school in legal error?- I'm sorry. Let's also remember the Bodrum affair. And that's something that came from your democracy. The problem hasn't been solved today. When we mention it somewhere to the Democratic Party representatives, they say -- it's settled in court. No, of course not. The mandate of counterpart Natasa Milojevic has been resolved, responsible for this Alen Selimovic, and this has nothing to do with the "Bodrum" affair. With the "Bodrum" affair, Neda Arneric and Bojan Pajtic have ties, but good. So much for your democracy. As for these concrete proposals in this law, and above all, I mean Articles 13 and 14, they are the gravest violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and those of Article 5. A constitution that guarantees and recognises the role of political parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens, which you have completely disobeyed, as well as Article 102(2), which says that the MP is free to place his mandate unrelentingly under certain conditions for the political party whose proposal has been elected as a member of parliament. So I'd like to see a lawyer hero who's going to say that what you're doing is in accordance with Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Because you do not create legal conditions for the MP to make his mandate available to the political party from whose list he is elected, but to suspend that constitutional right. I have said several times, and now I repeat, I will file a personal constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court the moment this law comes into force and I will insist that the Constitutional Court guarantee me my constitutional right to make my mandate available to my Serbian Radical Party, so that I can see whether the Constitutional Court will do what it has done. When we were at that public hearing, this is the decision that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has been invited to all day... When we were at that public debate, on 21 April, Mrs. Kolundzhija called all day for the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2010 concerning local elections. Then we drew attention to her that the decisions of the Constitutional Court were not a source of law. That woman's not a lawyer, so I guess she didn't know that. Then, at some point, Mrs Gordana Comic started waving some press releases, and then she gave me a copy of a press release from the 17th session of the Constitutional Court, which decided that she was an unconstitutional member of 84. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. To avoid reading what Mrs. Kolundji read, therefore, it is obvious that such a decision by the Constitutional Court does not oblige this unconstitutional law to be passed. But there's something else interesting. It's interesting, since it's been spoken a lot in public and since you haven't received much sympathy from the professional public, or a positive opinion of these unconstitutional amendments to the law, you've come to realize that you're requesting an alibi from the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is, in fact, making such a decision, and that after one election was held under this law and it never occurred to anyone to say that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and of course it is not... Then you came to realize that your judges were nice to be exposed to shame and shame and that they would make such a decision. For this reason, the Serbian Radical Party launched an initiative to resolve the duties of Constitutional Court President Dragisa Slepčević and eleven judges who participated in this shameful decision, namely Olivere Vukic, Bratislava Djokic, Agnes Kartag Odri, Katarina Manojlović Andric, Milan Markovic, Bose Nenadic, Milan Stanic, Dragan Stojanovic, Tomislav Stojkovic, Sabahudin Tahirovic and Predraga Cetkovic. Of course, in accordance with constitutional powers and with the interpretation of the Constitution, we forwarded this initiative to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Constitutional Court. We have formed this request on the basis of the powers of the Constitution of Members of Parliament, who can file an initiative for everything decided by the Assembly, for the adoption of laws, resolutions, declarations, and then by the logic of things and for the declaration of Judges of the Constitutional Court, in particular given the fact that the Assembly is the one-number speaker, or five judges elected by the President, and that the Assembly elects five judges of the Constitutional Court on a proposal from the President of the State. We cited very concrete reasons, and we said that these claims are based on the fact that the above-mentioned judges of the Constitutional Court are acting by their own behaviour, and we are now saying that they have seriously compromised the credibility of the Supreme Court, which should be one of the most important, the highest and most significant institutions in the state of Serbia. The constitution says the Constitutional Court must be independent and independent. These Constitutional Court judges have shown that they are neither independent nor independent, but that they have come to help Tadic's regime, in exchange for what they were once chosen. They probably promised then how they'd behave. These judges and the entire Constitutional Court, or these 12 judges, as well as you, dear colleagues and fellow MPs who will vote for this law, will legalise political corruption, which is the most serious form of corruption in a country that can exist. You will in this way crush all legal and moral principles and seriously endanger all institutions because the National Assembly is a legislative body, and you will turn it into something that will be worse than the current government. We know that the tycoons formed the government, and now the tycoons are going to make a congregation majority, probably from session to session; as the tycoon is in the interest, it's going to form a congregation majority. Unfortunately, someone mentioned that, the moral threshold for people is falling by increasing the poverty rate, so that what we're saying and how it has a basis. This is not something that the SRS is afraid of for the sake of the SRS, this is something we fear for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, because when you adopt this law, when you legalize this political corruption, then really every election will be completely pointless, then it won't matter how many seats it has won in the elections, but how much money it has to buy. That's what one of the problems is. Just to commend Mrs Djukic Dejanovic that she was very quick because she responded immediately to our initiative to resolve judges. So, in continuity, you agree that you're pushing all the problems under the carpet. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, one of the officials who wrote this to you has not read the Constitution, because when we said that one of the reasons why we could be replaced by a judge of the Constitutional Court... You draw attention to us that it is not in your jurisdiction, or the National Assembly, but you direct us to the Anti-Corruption Agency, so you point us to a health care facility, etc. That, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, has nothing to do with what a member of the Constitution says the Constitutional Court judge is resolved if he violates a ban on conflict of interest, if he permanently loses his capacity to serve as judge. It's not the working ability that doctors estimate, it's the ability to perform the judge's duties, which means they've lost their moral credibility, that they've shown they're not independent, that they're not independent. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let it be a toast to legalizing corruption and introducing tycoon into parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54890	National MP Milan Stanimirovic. Let MP Zoran Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54891	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I agree with the proposer's representative that perhaps a better solution, the best solution would be a new electoral law and that we have something called a comprehensive reform of the electoral system in the future. This is, first of all, an extortion, which speaks more of us than so much about the European Union, which is so much mentioned. The electoral law that should be passed in some future period must first of all be the best for the state, for society, from the point of view of the common good, and to allow the best of this society to be elected as the national representatives. The institutions, first of all, make up people. The credibility of institutions to many cities and those who are members of this parliament. The most discussed here is the way to assign or assign a mandate and the issue of a free term or to resign. So far, political parties have had their own way of assigning mandates after the elections. First of all, the result was taken into account. So MPs coming from certain backgrounds, if they achieved an exceptional result in their midst, had the advantage of assigning parliamentary mandates. Then, parties that kept to themselves took care of the geographical or territorial representation of all parts of Serbia, as the whole of Serbia is one electoral unit in the proportional system, so that they have representatives from all parts of Serbia. Of course, full representation, the representation of various social layers, etc. was also taken into account. When we talk about how to distribute or assign a mandate, what happens now? We had a public debate and the arguments we heard there, some I recorded here, almost identical to those arguments we heard in today's debate. We heard that, say, Belgrade and Novi Sad are currently giving about 40% of the MPs, and that it is represented in these cities by about 26% of voters. Many objections have been made to territorial representation, i.e. the geographical representation of national representatives from different Serbian territories. We have heard arguments that the opponent is on some opposing list, if he is 20 on the list, and you are 100, in such a situation in advantage because your voters will be demoted to go out and give their vote to you, because they will consider that even under the conditions that you will get 100% of the votes in your constituency, or in your election base where you come from, where you live and work, it will not be enough for you to become a national MP. It is said here about this motivation, that whoever is the 20th knows that he will be an MP and will be demoted to work in a political campaign for his political party, because it is known that under certain conditions, as well as polls, etc., if he wins a number of votes by his party, he will be 100% an MP, and he who is a hundred or a hundred and fifty, regardless of the result, will not be able to be a national MP. What concerns me in this situation is not only the demotivism of members of political parties to work in the campaign, but also the demotivism of voters, because the goal of a democratic system is to increase the participation of citizens in political processes, increased participation of citizens in election processes. Let's say, if a citizen from Prokuplje knows that the Democratic Party candidate from Prokuplje is in 150th place and assumes that he will not be an MP, we are directly demoting him. If the situation is that 20th on the list, he will also call his neighbors, relatives and friends to vote for DS. Here they will be demoted, because they will say – you know what, I like that party, but I would like the DS MP to be from my midst, I would lobby and do that if he really did become one. I think these "wrecked" lists, where the order to be given will be respected, will greatly demote voters in many electoral units to go to the polls and support their candidates. Also, this "knocking" political scene, a coalition with two or more parties, the allocation of mandates... Someone will say yes, the mandates are distributed in order, if you get that each third or fourth is from the coalition, etc. But what, in a situation where the coalition wins, makes the ruling majority and one of those MPs goes off the list to the minister or to some State Secretary's Department or anything? Then, instead of being someone from that coalition again, because it's under the coalition agreement, you have to give, under this law, a mandate to someone who's the first next on the list. We are not what the party leaders think of us, or what we think of ourselves, but what citizens think of us. The MPs will be re-determined by the parties in this situation, but this time before the election. That's a fact. These are some of the failures of this system, this electoral system and this electoral law, and above all, the electoral system that is who it is. That is why it is necessary to amend the electoral law. For example, perhaps the most just would be – we know that there is a majority system, a proportional system, a mixed system – some personalised proportional system, which would give the parties as much support as they have in the electoral body, while at the same time the citizen chooses and is motivated to participate in the political process, to increase the participation of citizens in the political process and in the elections, and to choose who is the name and last name of that candidate. It would be another situation, but it's all about some comprehensive reform of the electoral law in some future. I think this would be healing both for society and for the state, but also for the parties themselves. This would allow political life to be the focus of those who trust citizens in the environments they live in. This means that this negative selection for parliament, but also for party personnel themselves, would in some way make it impossible. In 2000, the DOS coalition respected the order on the list. The mandates are divided in order, as the MPs are lined up on the list, so it's not a newspaper for us. So the order on the party list is going to make party organs think they're putting the best. What if citizens in the election decide that some who have no chance of entering parliament are better so those who are in the 200th place of the list get a better result than those who live in the middle? Regardless of the fact that the whole of Serbia is an electoral unit and can be watched in such a way, we are all aware that we are all in charge, above all, of working in our electoral units, or of the places where we live and work. Some were MPs for decades, and they could never win for the advice of the local community. I have had the situation here of some MPs who are set by the will of political summits within their parties, and when they go to the local community council elections, they get 15-20 votes, and not all members of the family vote for them. So I think that some kind of personalized proportional system in the future might solve some of these situations. A lot of talk here is negatively and peoratively and political parties, not realizing that political parties are the headquarters of the political system and that political parties are not evil, but a part of the political system and that all this is a matter of measure. Here I agree with our fellow Members of the People who spoke of it in this way. This is where the question so-called. The blank resignations never existed, as some colleagues have said, but there was a constitutional provision in Article 102(2) that the MP was free to put his mandate, under certain conditions unrevocably, at the disposal of the political party on whose proposal he was elected MP. Blanko's resignations must be contrary to European standards. There are two levels, political and legal; I will not waste my time, as many fellow MPs have already spoken about both of these views, but, let's say, one of the most advocated in time for this position to enter the Constitution, it is the party leader who did not even exist before these elections and who became this after the elections in this parliament, Tomislav Nikolic, that this provision has been respected by the end, probably two and a half years would not have been an MP in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm going to say a few words about a free term. The status of MPs, as a representative of citizens and members of parliament as a legislative body, rests on a free mandate. The term of office is free when MPs are not bound by the instructions of their constituents, but decide on the basis of their beliefs. The free term protects the two most important rights of MPs, freedom of speech and freedom of choice in parliament. The MP represents all citizens. This was pointed out by many colleagues in today's debate, that the MP represented all citizens, not just voters who voted for him. As a representative of his citizens, he enjoys freedom of speech and votes in parliament run by his own safety. I would really criticise those colleagues who advocate a second position, that someone else, not the citizens who elected you, be the owner of the parliamentary mandate in this parliament, as the European practice requires. Unlike this free term, there is an imperative mandate in the event that MPs are obliged to act on the instructions of those who have chosen them, whether they are the tops of political parties or voters, etc. The free term is guaranteed by many constitutions. This is where the United Kingdom is mentioned and, I mean, another state, I can't remember now which, as far as the free term is concerned. The free term is guaranteed by numerous constitutions, and some, French and Bulgarian, explicitly establish the futility of an imperative mandate. Since some have quoted in this House, I, for example, will quote members of some of the constitutions of the members of the European Union: "Every imperative mandate is void," article 27. The Constitution of France. "The members of the Lower House are not bound by the mandate and vote without instructions," Article 96. The Constitution of Norway. "The members of the Bundestaga are representatives of the entire nation. They are not bound by orders and instructions and are only subject to their conscience," Article 38. The basic law of Germany. "The members of the Federal Assembly vote without instructions. They openly express their interests," Article 161. points 1 and 2. The Constitution of Switzerland, which is, indeed, not an EU member, but also advocates a free mandate. ‘Employees shall decide freely and shall not be bound by any directives or instructions issued by their constituents’, paragraph 56. The Constitution of Denmark. "Every member of parliament represents a nation and is not bound by the orders of his constituents," Article 67. The Constitution of Italy. "The members of the General Court are not bound by any imperial mandate," Article 67(2). The Constitution of Spain. You will allow me to quote here a lot more views from the basic laws and constitutions of European countries that contribute to the free mandate than those who have spoken here and opposed the free mandate, primarily by mentioning the UK, not by mentioning that there is a majority electoral system there and that much of the majority electoral system affects how this issue is treated. Therefore, the right to a free term excludes the impeachment of MPs, and the impeachment is exclusively linked to an imperative mandate. Of course, in accordance with the free mandate, the MP has the right to enjoy his mandate uninterruptedly, allowing the MP to exercise his parliamentary rights uninterruptedly and fulfil his duties and to protect him from the arbitrary and illegal restriction or withdrawal of his mandate, when it comes to the freedom of office. I only have this note, since many here have talked about why an MP would verify his resignation in court. The MP has the right to resign. The MP performs a parliamentary post based on his free consent. In this respect, the Commission notes that a written statement by the candidates on the acceptance of the application is necessary for the validity of the candidacy. The MP's mandate is free and he has the right to resign as MPs. Although resignation is a personal act, it is one of the reasons for the resignation of MPs, in some constitutional systems, such as Sweden, parliament is required to accept MPs' resignation. He says the MP cannot resign without Riksdag's consent, Article 7 of Section 1 4, the instruments of the Swedish government. Comparative legislation – France, Sweden, Austria, Germany carefully regulates this reason for the termination of the term of office. In particular, the process of submitting the resignations, the written form, the submission to Parliament's Presidency, Parliament's consent; the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work explicitly determines that resignations, particularly those signed or submitted to the political party, do not produce legal facts. Such resignations are considered legally invalid. I needed to quote some of the provisions of the Constitution of the European Union countries in order to make some kind of counterargumentation compared to everything we've heard here. We have heard that some of our fellow Members of Parliament will turn to protect some of their rights by constitutional appeal and by the Constitutional Court. Well, who forbids you to put your term in office, if you want to resign, to file it and say, 'cause my party asked me to? Do not make us put something into law that we do not want to put into law (and thus limit the free mandate of the MP) and prevent us from actually accepting that legislation that has been accepted in a huge number of EU countries. Therefore, with all the shortcomings that these amendments to the election law and that fence from the beginning of the discussion when I said that we here in parliament must show first and foremost responsibility, prudence and fear for the common good, in the sense that we will pass a law that will enable an increased, from a democratic point of view, the participation of citizens and in election processes and completely in political processes... I think this will best allow the best to be elected to this parliament, which will also raise the credibility of the highest legislative body in Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54892	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54893	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. I only have one small intervention, without wanting to repeat everything I said. Mr Stanimirovic, we already have, under the Constitution and under the current Law on the election of MPs, a free mandate. When it is said that the mandate is free, then it is thought of the relationship between voters and MPs. As soon as voters do not have the right to recall the MP means that his mandate is free. No one's questioning that. So it's not like there was now an imperative mandate, and now you're introducing a free mandate. The free term was also under the 2006 Constitution and the 2000 Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Nothing changes in that regard. What you want to change and what you want to point to is that the MP should be as much dependent on the political party that ran him. You will undoubtedly achieve this, but by being an MP independent of his party he will come in a position to be dependent on some other factors that are not here in the National Assembly. You will have a phenomenon that politicians suggest exists in the Republic of Serbia, but also in some other transition states, which is so-called "the Republic of Serbia". Extraordinary parliamentaryisation – that some party that did not participate in the elections becomes parliamentary. That, Mr. Stanimirovic, is an anomaly in a democratic political system. I would like to remind you that the anomaly suffered and the first, as you say, the democratic parliament elected in December 2000. When the parliament's mandate ended, there were 16 political parties in it. Of these 16 political parties, six political parties did not exist in 2000 when elections were held in the Republic of Serbia. As for the certified resignation, I'm sorry, but you from the Democratic Party... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, you're acting in two different ways. Now the MP must confirm his resignation, and you have accepted the signatures of this party that you have formed to change the Constitution, where no signature has been approved. What has more weight, when an MP resigns or when people ask for a change of constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54894	Mrs Radeta, Mr Martinovic is on behalf of the parliamentary group. (Verica Radeta, from the place: Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, you had probably a reasonable reason not to listen, a colleague spoke of someone who said that the Constitutional Court would appeal to ask for what he said. That's what you've all been saying. "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You have no right to a replica. Mr. Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54895	Mr. Martinovic, you, as a lawyer and one of the assistants of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, know about the legal maximum that no one is guilty until his guilt is proved, and here you act exactly the opposite – everyone is suspicious until it is proved fair, and you want to impose such an attitude on this parliament. I understand that view because someone you have proposed as President of the Republic has left and the policy that has proposed it, and the party that has proposed it and completely changed its policy. Whom the serpents have eaten, the lizard is afraid. But don't be afraid, but choose the right people. We had, as the Democratic Party, 33 MPs precisely when they said Karic had traded and bought MPs; no MP of the Democratic Party had signed a blank resignation and none had been tempted to abandon those ideas and ideology for which he had been elected by voters and came to this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54896	Ms. Radet, please define yourself which one of you will replicate. It's real now, Mr. Martinovic, but you've defined yourself as Mrs. Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54897	So this really doesn't make sense. I asked for a replica because Mr. Stanimirovic spoke precisely about what I said and explained how I could resign and say that I am doing it because my party is asking for it. It's not about that, it's about you suspending Article 2(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party. This means that the political party can work with that mandate, conditionally speaking, whatever it wants, or says -- now you can be an MP, now you can't be an MP, etc. These are completely different things you were talking about here. You know, does anyone speak for themselves and what motives were there for someone to propose to, so he betrayed the party and so on... There are different motives. You had motives to steal MPs, you had motives to buy MPs, you did it. Since you have existed in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, there has been no assembly calling that the Democratic Party has not stolen a mandate. Either he was independent, or someone moved on to them, or you created a parliamentary group like this parliamentary group that didn't participate at all in the elections, or a party that didn't participate in the elections. Why don't you remember Banet Ivkovic, who you had an urge to do when you had him and the entire parliamentary group... In that case, you then formed a parliamentary group and bought it to support the government of Zoran Djindjic. We're not people of such short memory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54898	Time. MP Zoran Nikolic has a word. Let MP Nemanja Sarovic be prepared. You'll just have to sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54899	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when you have the opportunity to talk about any law before the end of the debate, then you have the privilege of listening to the arguments of those who advocate a legal proposal and those who dispute it compare those arguments. I will use my position and calm conscience to say that if we were to vote on this legislative proposal, therefore, with amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, on the basis of the arguments put forward here today, then this Parliament should unanimously reject this law. But I am aware of the political reality and limit that MPs of the ruling majority at this point have orders that this law must be voted at all costs and I know that this law will be voted upon. This does not mean that this law will fulfil those functions that the Law on the selection of MPs should fulfil, which is to stabilise political opportunities, in particular political institutions, in this case the institutions of the National Assembly; the protection of the legitimacy of this institution and that institution, or government, which, based on votes and the legitimacy of the National Assembly, receives its mandate. That's not going to happen with these changes and supplements. It was defended here by representatives of the ruling coalition of this proposal. There's only one system error, I'd say. Time. If this law is necessary and if without this law Serbia will not democratisation its institutions and will not get close to the EU, why has it not been done in 2008? Why do you make this argument only after the recommendation of the Venice Commission, and before that, you have not said a word about the need for this Law on the Selection of MPs to be changed? In particular, you have not proposed amendments to the Act which denies Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that regulates matter is free to resign to the party, i.e. the list that proposed it. This is another attack on the Constitution, which is the foundation of democratic Serbia and which we created on the basis of the political consensus in 2006. Do you feel and do you see – if you don't see it, and I think you are aware of these facts, I think citizens see – why is there no political consensus in this Parliament, in this country and in this society? Because there's some kind of mission of the Democratic Party here that's been mentioned today. Who are you? Who are members of the Democratic Party? What is this mission and privilege that only you know and only you feel, and we're being denied it? I want a democratic state, I want a parliament where there will be no trade in mandates, where there will be no corruption; I want a government that has legitimacy, I want a government that will not cheat on citizens, which will not promise one policy and implement a whole other policy; I want a parliament that will respect its citizens. I don't want a parliament that will adopt the Srebrenica Declaration; I don't want a parliament where the resolution on Kosovo will be annulled; I don't want a parliament where regionalisation is the most important problem and where the most perfect solution is proposed, and then after nine months you change the same law. The same is true of this law. I ask the motionary, Mrs. Nada Kolundji, can you now guarantee to the citizens of Serbia that by the end of this House we will not discuss at least once more the amendments and additions to this law? If that happens, then you should resign. You and all of you who have been discussing and defending this law today. This law only seems to go to you. It's something that's particularly tragic, which you put in your party interests and incorporate into legal proposals, but, you know, the people said well – the whip always has two ends. Take care of that other area when you are, just as there is a whip in the British Parliament, has arrived, and that will be the people's will in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54900	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54901	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would, of course, like to live in a country where a political consensus can be reached or at least a broader political consensus on any important issue. Unfortunately, we don't live in that country. I think if we were to establish now whose responsibility it is, no one would be innocent of it. So no one here, who deals with politics, could say – I am not at all guilty of the fact that there is nothing in this country to achieve general political agreement. But there are also very specific things that show why political consent is really impossible. If you do not want to live in a country where parliament will condemn crimes against innocent people in Srebrenica, then we cannot achieve political agreement on many issues, unfortunately. I don't condemn the attitude of one who thinks so, I'm just saying that then really the way we see this country in the future is such that it's very difficult to reach a political consensus on the most important social issues. I would love, of course, that this law does not cause so much controversy, and I would love it if these amendments of the law were indeed such that one ideal practice, in which there was no corruption, would now lead to these changes leading to corruption. We're talking about the law on the basis of which you provide examples that there was abuse and corruption, that there was trade in terms of mandates. So you defend the law that resulted from corruption in parliament. I don't know why you think the amendment to the law he proved not to defend against corruption will now mean that these corruptions will be. Well, it's been so far. If you're talking about corruption, buying mandates and trading mandates, then I don't see why you're fighting so hard for the survival of the law that, with which corruption and trade have been permanentally going on with mandates. I don't know if the way the MP resigns can, by any means, protect against corruption. I think the only way to fight corruption is if the Anti-Corruption Act and the Anti-Corruption Agency are not clear enough, it's not strict enough, we change that law. Because corruption is a criminal act and it does not concern the Law on the selection of Members of the People, in the sense that the MP is free, according to the Constitution, to have his mandate or not. The constitution did not say anywhere that the party was free to have the mandate of the MP. The Constitution says: The Messenger of the people is free. If the MP is free, it just means that the way he resigns by his will, in his own name, is strictly respect for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54902	The word is Zoran Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54903	Thank you. And I thank you for your honesty. You have actually opened the topic and expressed your desire to pursue political consensus, but that simply political reality is such that it is not there. Then there is the Democratic Party and its missionary role is to impose a political solution. I'll remind you of just one other thing, the political consensus was until 2008 and that's a political fact. The parliament also adopted declarations and a Resolution on Kosovo, with 240 MPs. The parliament gathered around the constitution and also unanimously adopted it. All the important things for the functioning of the state were then adopted by consensus. There is an important difference between the period when the Democratic Party of Serbia was in power and when the prime minister in the country was Vojislav Kostunica, and today when he heads the state and government Boris Tadic. I responded specifically to the replica because it was said here that we were against the conviction of a crime in Srebrenica. It's a harsh lie, and I beg you not to manipulate that fact anymore. We were just talking and we were against the Resolution because we claimed that all crimes should be condemned, that we could not condemn crimes in one resolution in Srebrenica and not mention crimes committed against our people. It is in the best possible way, unfortunately, humiliating citizens and this resolution, but also in its act, done by President Boris Tadic when he went to Srebrenica, and the next day he did not go to Bratunac. You can't have political stability in this country and you can't have a political consensus when you act like it and make a difference between the victims. If it's someone's recommendation again and your ex-wise mind, someone's request, I leave it to your conscience to think about it a little bit better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54904	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as condemnation of crime is concerned, the SRS believes that in a democratic state, where the principle of division of power is respected, crimes should be condemned by courts, not parliament. As for what Mrs. Nada Kolundzija said, about the poor legislative solutions, we, Mrs. Kolundji, did not have political corruption due to the law, but because of the lack of respect for the law, because the Democratic Party applied the same law in the same situation in two different ways, depending on what its political interest was at that moment. It was not the existing Law on selecting Members of the People that allowed corruption, it was you who violated the law. And it should not change the law, but must change the practice in the Republic of Serbia and that one law is essentially applied in the same way rather than depending on the political will and political interest of the one that should apply the law. This is about, Mrs Kolundzija, that the Serbian Radical Party has offered the prosecution an audio recording where a man from the Serbian Progressive Party, under the orders of Tomislav Nikolic, offers bribes to one of the Serbian Radical Party's representatives in SO Zemun to leave the SRS. The D.A. says there's no evidence. Excuse me, which institution in this country should we address if the prosecution doesn't respect that kind of evidence? It offers a man 100,000 euros. And you say now: turn to the judgments. I'm sorry, the courts don't follow the law in these situations, they judge by political order. It's not the laws, Mrs. Kolundji, it's the laws that need to be applied. That's what this is about. You have to change, you have to change your political practice. The laws are good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54906	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54907	I would like to say, I don't think it's fair to transfer the DS and the ruling majority, who also voted in the resolution on the conviction of the Srebrenica crime and the Resolution on the conviction of crimes committed against the Serb people, to make a difference between the victims. It's simple, that's neither true nor fair. The ruling majority... In that it may be the difference between us and some, I don't want anyone to be recognized, which we think is every crime for a conviction, that every criminal should answer, that every victim should have a satisfaction and that no difference in national or any other belonging should be made between victims or criminals. That's what we really stand for. You mention the period when there was a higher degree of consent, when the Democratic Party was an opposition and when the other coalition was in power. I only remind you that the Democratic Party has always claimed that if laws are passed that achieve the fundamental interests and objectives of this country and its citizens, we will vote for them, whether in power or in opposition. We were never hostile, nor were we opposition to authority, nor were we in power, according to opposition. As far as we're concerned, anyone who believes in the values and goals that we believe are the goals that matter to this country is always, of course, a talker and is always someone to talk to and work with to achieve common goals. We haven't changed our goals. We're not. We continued on the path we were going and when we supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica because the government of Vojislav Kostunica was going that way. We've continued to follow a path that has basic priorities, I don't want to repeat them a hundred times now, we know what the priorities are. If we say that the Democratic Party has a vision, we hear here every day that each party has a vision, goals, values, etc. and I don't know what insults who, I don't know why anyone feels hit if the DS says they have a vision and see their mission in order to achieve some goals that we deeply believe are in the best interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. We do not deny anyone's right to have its political goals, our visions, even when they are deeply contrary to what we believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54908	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic. It's easier to give you my word, but this time you're really wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54909	Thank you. Since you gave me your word, maybe I'll speak less than a minute, so we don't use our time. Since it referred to the ruling group in the previous meeting, and since it was practically the leading party of the Democratic Party of Serbia, it was clear what it was about. That's about explaining the reason. The bottom line is this: if the Democratic Party sees itself as a political party that knows exactly what its goal is, and that respecting the general objectives of general national interest at that time voted for such laws and was constructive in that segment at that time, I respect that and that is fine (especially the question that you were not in parliament for a time, because you boycotted it), but I cannot, unfortunately, confirm to you the same thing, on my part, from this place today, because there is almost no law that you have proposed as the ruling majority, or government that you represent here, which fulfils this minimum condition that you are talking about – protection of general interest, national goals, etc. That's the problem. We would be even more constructive than you if you suggested such a thing to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54910	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54911	When someone changes their attitude to the basic question, it's not the one who continues that way, and that's why they can't be found on that path, but the one who changed their attitude. It's just that there's nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54912	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word. Let Vice President Gordana Komic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on selecting Members of the People is a very important law. The changes you are proposing today are the best possible indicator of the situation in which you have brought Serbia's political scene. When it comes to some other laws, perhaps Democrats and advances may play power and opposition, but this law will show in full light that your fundamental ideological unity and the fact that the Democratic Party, once it has created an opposition in its own way, continues to protect its extramarital child, or its political Frankenstein, this time by amending the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, whose fundamental aim is to legalise the theft of the mandate of the Serbian Radical Party. Legalising trade in mandates as a form of political prostitution today is a reality in Serbia, but these political camels, who during the night pro-Europeanly transformed and gave up the ideologies of Serbian nationalism that were represented for 18 full years, no one, not even DS, can give legitimacy. Before I move on to the criticism of concrete solutions, I'd like to inform you that this morning, about 12 hours ago, I went on a hunger and thirst strike. I ate a barrel, though, but it was empty, so I guess that doesn't count. I firmly decided to hold out until at least tonight without water and thus beat the record "Gandi from Bajcetina". However, unlike “Gandy of Bajcetina, ” I decided not to make any demands, for I, taught by his example, concluded that it is better to have no request but to have a stupid request. A few days ago, the newspaper released news that a young Mexican girl was on a hunger strike because she wanted to go to a royal wedding in London, but she didn't have any money for it. She has been strikening hunger for 16 days, but on the street, under a tent, not as "Mr. Šojić" on the leather porch in the National Assembly, or at a private clinical centre as the only patient. That determination of that young Mexican woman moved an anonymous donor and paid her a plane ticket to London, which in conclusion means that a young Mexican girl striked for a royal wedding for 16 days and that "Gandi from Bajcetina" who claimed to strike for Serbia, under very suspicious circumstances, lasted only four or five. But in order not to waste too much time on "Mr. Shojic", I will move on to the reasons for the law that you have stated in the proposal. You say you are passing a law, starting with the Constitution and the definition of European integration and EU membership. I don't know if you've read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it doesn't say that. It says that we share certain values and certain principles, and that is the fact, we share them for centuries, regardless of how much the EU, when it comes to Serbia, does not respect a single principle. EU membership is the definition of the ruling coalition and this opposition that you created according to your model, but, thank God, from day to day, the growing commitment of Serbian citizens and those citizens in Serbia who want EU membership disappear faster than the jobs under Tadic's authority. It is therefore not appropriate to refer to the European Union directives because they are not binding on Serbia. Why should we even comply with EU directives today if EU leaders openly tell you that, at best, by 2020 other than Croatia, no country in the environment will become an EU member? So it's certainly not a topic now. The question is whether or not the European Union will exist by 2020, and it is certain that you will not be in power then. But the point is that the European Union is now through its recommendations and directives doing everything in its power to destabilise Serbia, both politically, economically, and nationally and in any other way possible. I must also note that it is absolutely insane that you are calling on the Constitutional Court's position instead of the Constitution itself, and even worse, when you regulate the way you resign and say it – it is in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Have you ever heard of the hierarchy of legal acts? Is it possible for you to imitate the law of the Rules of Procedure and to imitate the law instead of doing exactly the opposite?- I'm sorry. You claim that by amending the Law you confirm the principle that citizens are the bearers of sovereignty that determine in the elections who will represent them and that you remove elements of indirectity. Does this mean that since 2000, since this law came into force, citizens have not been the bearers of sovereignty and that there has been some sort of indirect way of electing MPs? This is one big step back for Serbia and this is certainly a worse law than any Milosevic, and you have so gladly criticised them. I must remind you once again that all of what you have presented to the "bubbler of revolution" is a condition of democracy (from the way MPs, TV broadcasts and all other principles, proportionality, for example) slowly, but surely one by one you deny. How are you supposed to remove this mediocrity in the election? By eliminating any possibility that two-thirds of the people on the list will ever become MPs. For most parties, it's not going to be two-thirds, but it's going to be 90% of those that are actually just going to be bigger reserves. With the proposed solution, not only did you not prevent the parties from determining who would be the MP, but you have practically done one much worse thing, because the order on the list will, and therefore who will be the MP, and now determine the applicant of the electoral list, or political party, but will now do so before the election, instead of the case so far – after the election. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an incomparably worse solution. The proposed law completely eliminates the possibility that the number of votes each candidate wins in its environment, its place, its city, its village, however, will affect whether or not he will be given a mandate. The question is why would anyone from a small community, from a village or town with a smaller population, go to elections at all, and why would the citizens of those communities come out if they were aware that their representative would never see parliament. The Serbian Radical Party has always been proud of the fact that its parliamentary group painted Serbia. So we had workers, and peasants, and doctors science, and lawyers, and doctors, practically people of all possible profiles, ages, nationalities, etc. When, according to this law, will we have MPs from Strpc, Shop, from smaller Belgrade municipalities such as Sopot or Barajev? Probably never. You're actually punishing these people. You say you're doing it for the citizens, because, my God, the voter gives his vote to a certain man, as his representative. You know very well that this is not true, because in Serbia, first of all, the vote for the electoral list and the programme that each party represents for years, especially before the elections themselves. What Tomislav Nikolic would say when he was a prominent man – all of you who are elected anywhere, all of us who will be elected anywhere are chosen because we belong to the Serbian Radical Party. After all, how can anyone vote for an individual under the applicable law or law that you propose to adopt? Of course he can't. It's another major deception of Serbian citizens. If you really wanted such an option, you would have changed the electoral system, created a system with open lists, similar to that that exists in Republika Srpska, so regardless of the place on the list, the candidate who received the largest number of votes would have become an MP. In this way, you would eliminate party interference, although I do not know what is controversial and what is the essence of your ideas and desires to eliminate party interference, if these parties are democratic under their programme and internal arrangement, and these are probably all those that function in Serbia. But it obviously wasn't your wish. Yesterday, one of the ruling coalition's representatives said that the assignment of a term of office in order on the list was imperatively determined by the Constitutional Court by its decision. If so, then why are you delaying the fact that the provisions of Articles 13 and 15 until the next elections, why not apply them immediately, so that we may no longer be in that anti-constitutional state? I ask you, what member of the Serbian Constitution writes that mandates are assigned in order on the list? Of course, it doesn't say one thing. It's your complete fabrication. It never occurred to any of you to put it as a problem until the moment you wished to re-manipulate the mandates and assign the term of office, and then the Constitutional Court declared that the provisions of the Constitution were unconstitutional and that, essentially, the judges of the Constitutional Court had promoted them to the creators of the Constitution instead of to the interpreters of the Constitution. You can't explain why it's assigned in order. Now I'm going to ask you a question on one case: what would happen if "Gandi from Bajcetina" ended with the death of this strike, so that these 20 followers afterwards of grief for him or, more likely, from laughter over that strike also ended their lives? What would you do with these mandates, would you give to the Serbian Radical Party, in accordance with the Constitution, to assign them to whoever you want or to watch where you will find someone on the list to rebuild some parliamentary group that you will be able to control and that will share your pro-European principles? This is what Mr. Gandhi said in his own time when the Constitutional Court first decided, before the constitution was passed, that the mandate belonged to the MP: “What if one of the 250 MPs dies, whose mandate is that? How can the Constitutional Court make such a pointless decision? Can a wife replace a husband or husband with a wife in the congregation, if his mandate is? Then why are they talking to me as the bearer of the list to give me a new name? Here, our MP died tragically three months ago, and they came to me to give me the name of a new MP. What makes me so entitled to a term of office? So the mandate belongs to the MP in some circumstances, and it belongs to Tomislav Nikolic under other circumstances. “ It is an opinion shared by both DS and Hope Kolundji. He goes on to say: “How can circumstances determine who the mandate belongs to? I guess we don't pay attention to the circumstances, we pay attention to the election results. That's what the Constitutional Court won't be able to explain to anyone. That is why I insisted on talks on a new constitution, that a provision enter into the Constitution to make the list bearer available to mandates and to clarify whether anyone can buy." This came in, you well know that it was one of the basic conditions for the SRS to support the Constitution. That is why the provision of Article 102 was written but unfortunately it was valid until you needed a new Bane Ivkovic in the image of Tomislav Nikolic. 'However, the biggest problem of this law is not the way in which the mandate is assigned, but the fact that it openly and brutally violates the Constitution as the highest legal act and that the proposed provisions effectively out of force are laid down by Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which gives the MP the opportunity to entrust his mandate to the party. Please find another document, except for the resignation of the MP, which is subject to judicial confirmation and which has been valid for three days. Why didn't you put it in there for 30 seconds and then show all the nonsense of what you're doing? Yesterday, Branko Ružić said openly, and I will quote him: "The practice has denied us that the provision of Article 102 is necessary in application. We are democratically mature and there is no danger that tycoons are changing the election will of citizens." Who's funding the SNS Parliamentary Group? They stole the mandates after the election, they don't get any money from the budget; they certainly don't finance the party from their pockets, since their pockets are obviously more full than before they failed the ideology they represented for 18 years. Then it's clear they're funded by tycoons. They can't be financed by poor Serbian citizens who deceive to bring them a better future. Then is there any danger or no danger? Then these people will continue to account for the tycoons, not for the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens are not dependent. What does it even mean that practice has denied the need for the existence of a member of the Constitution? Is it possible that the practice and need of ruling parties in Serbia become a source of rights? That's possible, but it's only possible in authoritarian and autocratic regimes. That, although realistically and lifelyly, was possible in Serbia by now, was not legally possible. That's why we, Mrs. Kolundjia, fight so much, even though you say this law was bad. It wasn't a bad law, it was a law that wasn't applied. That's why we're fighting not to change this, because if you adopt this and if you don't call your senses, if you adopt these proposed changes, you will, in practice, execute the shooting of democracy. I will remind you of something else that "Gandi from Bajcetina" said in 2006, when his current coalition partner Bogoljub Karic stole a Serbian Radical Party MP. At that time, however, Mr. Gandhi of Bajcetina claimed that Bogoljub Karic is the biggest thief in Serbia's history and that he stole six hundredm euros from Telenor and is now his coalition partner. He said at the time: "I don't think the party of Bogoljub Karic could enter parliament because no one can enter parliament without elections. Then we'd be the first state in which some party became parliamentary after the election. Currently, a meeting of the heads of parliament groups in the Serbian Parliament is under way, and I think it will show who thinks about democracy and who thinks about morality." Speaking of morals, I will read the oath of the People's MP of the SRS, who says, "I, so name and name, swear, as a People's Messenger, by the almighty God, swear by my Orthodox faith, swear by my name and honor, swear by the glory of my ancestors and by the future of my descendants, by my MP's mandate at all times will be laid down by the central Fatherland administration of the Serbian Radical Party, and by its will I will obey unconditionally. As I respected this oath and fulfilled it, so did God help me. This oath was sworn by Tomislav Nikolic on March 12th 2004, at St. Nicholas's temple in Zemun, but later, when he touched the mandate, he said it was in the previous term, which is why, I guess, the oath is not valid because it has a period of time, as a can of pasta has a duration. The only difference is that most cans of pasta have a longer duration than an oath laid down in a church, when it is done by Mr. “Gandi from Bajcetina” and this group he has gathered around him. Further says Tomislav Nikolic: "This is a test for the Serbian Orthodox Church. Can Bogoljub Karic buy everything, can he buy an oath given before God? If he can buy it, does he belong in the SPC? For who thus tempts a believer? Only the devil," SNS gentlemen, Tomislav Nikolic says and adds "the devil is no place in the SPC. “ I agree here. "It may occur to Bogoljub Karic that he buys married women in houses. Where's the end? Two months ago, he said everything was for sale, everything for shopping, and here the oath was given to God. He didn't buy the man, the man was the easiest to buy, he bought the oath given in the temple before God. Does he need that? No one else's accident has ever been used. Those who gain happiness in another's misfortune know that he must be punished. The thief in Serbia who leads Bogoljub Karic," he led him at the time, now led by Tomislav Nikolic, "must stop or we will become a state where there is no order, nor morals, nor faith, in which there is nothing. “ All of this is “Gandi of Bajcetine ” said of poor God - fearing. Poor Bogoljub only touched one term, and “Gandi from Bajcetina” had 21 mandates. Further, "Gandi from Bajcetina" says: "This is my message to all political parties – either they will resist now or we will stop fighting politically. Then what would we fight for when after the election we don't know how many MPs? We will do politics from day to day, campaigns, elections, and Bogoljub Karic will wait and buy all MPs who are elected. And where is Serbia's Constitutional Court morale? How many judges did Bogoljub Karic buy to make a decision like this? “ The same question could now be asked for Tomislav Nikolic. Did Bogoljub Karic win... He says, "No politician in Serbia is responsible for the MP having his mandate. “ It didn’t fit at the time. Then, further: "No matter how bad you think about politicians, insist which one of them is moral and who isn't, I wouldn't deny it," Tomislav Nikolic said. Meanwhile, in 2008, he obviously changed his mind. He says: “Godlike Karic can enter the Assembly only for lunch. His party, I hope, will never be parliamentary. And what he has been deluding these years and a half of Serbia's citizens and tearing down the SRS, I have warned you, founded a party under Boris Tadic's orders to tear down the radicals, and that has now reached its peak. Let Boris Tadic now say whether he needs such an associate who does not believe in God. We are not interested in Bogoljub Karic, but whether the phenomenon can be rooted in Serbia. If he wins, it'll be nothing from Serbia. “ Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples who formed the new Bogoljub Karic seem to be repeating history? And did any of you who raised your hand and allowed him to sit today with a stolen mandate and with stolen resignations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can stand up and look Serbian citizens in the eyes and say – this is not the new Bogoljub Karic, this is not the new Bane Ivkovic? Of course you can't, because he (it is, I think, from day to day increasingly clear) is just a rag of the Democratic Party. Some called it "Mr. Trollex", they say – cheap, used for the dirtiest jobs, and no one wants to take it into their hands. What is the difference between Tomislav Nikolic and Bogoljub Karic, except in youth? But I must say that you Democrats, as you protected Karic and Banet Ivkovic in time, are now protecting Tomislav Nikolic. Do not think that we have forgotten how many times you have postponed the meetings of the Administrative Committee because you did not have the majority to protect the mandates stolen by the Serbian Progressive Party, as you did not have the majority to protect the mandate of Dragan Shormaz, who also stole the SNS. At the time, Mr. Konstantinovic even postponed the meeting of the Administrative Committee because, my God, "Mr. Šojic" went privately to Hilandar. According to his first associate, Cirko, he went to contribute to the restoration of the monastery and made a great contribution, I guess to make amends for that oath taken in the church and then broken. He made a great contribution to how much information we have. You know what's most interesting, what they said after his big contribution? I'm not gonna tell you what it's all about. They said the monks of the Holy Up—as far as he took, he gave a little. There are no sins in the Serbian Orthodox Church for money; it exists only in the Roman Catholic Church. But let's get back to that session delay. The only way out you had to allow further theft was to change the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to change the majority of the Administrative Committee, and then to ensure that Dragan Shormaz is presently in the parliamentary group. But I warn you, all of you who cooperate with those who steal must take care of what happens to you. Here, for example, the Democratic Party of Serbia... (President: Time. I'm done. Last year, "Gandi from Bajcetina" went to them for glory, took a bottle of brandy, and brought a messenger. This year he was called to glory again. It's time for them to finally declare whether they want to cooperate with thieves or not, and whether they are against the theft of mandates only when mandates are stolen from them. I'll finish one more sentence, I think it's very important. You have not even responded to whether, under the new law, you will seek, as so far, a statement of acceptance of the candidacy before the assignment of the term of office in order on the list. If you don't ask for that statement, then you will agree to break that level of law, because the MP needs as often as possible to wonder if anyone wants to or wants to become an MP... (President: You will have to bring an end. Here, I'm done, 20 seconds. What are you going to do if you get a negative answer, and it goes through those ten days, then how are you, Mrs. Kolundjia, going to share those mandates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54914	Replica, MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54915	In accordance with Article 27. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, you are required to take care of the agenda. It seems to me that point 106 speaks of the agenda point and the obligation to stick to that part of the agenda. It seems to me that Mr. Sarovic has not talked about anything else for 20 minutes, but about Tomislav Nikolic. It's like you enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54916	Please, often the MPs of your group cite examples of life to explain the political attitude and may be that they were a model of others. Therefore, I have no different archaics for the SRS, but for you former radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54917	Can I just remind you? A rag, a thief, a potential killer, a man who's funded from the side, who stole money, are these epithets or findings that are similar to the National Assembly? Is that something you should have allowed? I don't think so. We are not in conflict with the Serbian Radical Party. She's talking about herself. They haven't learned anything since 2008. Apparently, they're not aware of one simple truth, that spite is a very bad trade. In this spite and desire to prove something that is already and how well known to all Serbian citizens and what has already been said a thousand times from this pay phone, they think they can fix their position, some of their ratings. I really don't mind them, but when they exaggerate with insults, I think it's time for them to react, because it's about the president of the strongest parliamentary group in this House. I think we can agree on that. I understand their manners. They don't have that sense of responsibility. With ratings that have nothing on the political scene and it is easy for them to muddle someone with responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. Please get this debate a little serious in the next period. This is really humiliating for parliament. Not for the Serbian Progressive Party, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54918	National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54919	Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, you are quite well in the session. I must teach the gentleman who is sitting there, who stole the mandate from the Serbian Radical Party, that what is true cannot be an insult. The truth offends you, Mr Anticu. I haven't told you a single lie. Everything I've said, I've spoken countless times. Whatever TV I'm gonna go to, that's what I'm gonna say. I don't know how many times I've called your head of Parliament, as you say the strongest (and not the strongest, was once, while he was an honorable man in the SRS), to go to a television duel and explain to the citizens of Serbia, so they'll be the supreme judge who's right, who isn't. Also, this gentleman should explain the origin of his property. That's something I asked for, which I asked as a parliamentary question. I have asked to see how the SNS is financed and where Mr Nikolic's properties have been acquired in the last eight years, since Dr Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague, which, in my opinion, exceed the value of a million euros. And that's what I asked him in the face. He didn't answer. As now, Mr. Antic, he's dragged into a mouse hole, and he's talking about how he's on some kind of recovery, and only a few days after that caller, he was in Kragujevac at a restaurant at a wedding, so he's squirming like Damian's Zelenko, and there's nothing...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54920	Really, don't do that. Please, you can't tell Damian's Zelenko about the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54921	And then, ten days later, he comes to the congregation with a camera escort, so, my God, he barely falls asleep and sees if he threatens after that strike or not. In that farce you prepared for the citizens of Serbia, no one believed. So, Mr. Antic, don't hide behind anyone. If you have anything, please tell me. Do not give any advice to representatives of the Serbian Radical Party because you are not worthy of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54922	Mr. Sarovic, I ask you to keep an eye on the terminology you use in the future. I understand the heat and the political flight in you, and I understand the insolence you obviously experience and cultivate and try to work on the environment, but I'm asking you to take care of the terminology you're using. National MP Zoran Antic has a word, and to bring the replicas to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54923	I think Mr. Sarovic is the only thing left to laugh about, to be funny, given the situation in his political party, given his party's perspective. I really don't know what else to expect from him. There will be Tomislav Nikolic, so don't be afraid, ask him a question. I guess there are official organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54924	Please don't speak to Mr. Sarovic because you're putting me in a position to give him my word again. So talk to parliament, to the citizens. You seem to want me to give him my word again. There's obviously a lot in common. Excuse me, are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54925	Nothing, I just want to thank you for the opportunity to give me the replica, last time you didn't even let me do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54926	You've got a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54927	On one occasion, when Mrs. Natasa spoke, but Tomislav Nikolic will be there, she will have the opportunity to ask what they want to ask. I'm sorry that this is the way they have to talk to the two parties that are opposition. About what we have done and how we have done, how honorable we are, how dishonest we are, the judges of Serbian citizens. I think they're a very good judge today and they're judging who stole the party from whom. It's funny stuff, that someone who has 5% today in the party is telling someone who got out of that party and has 40% that he stole it. Gentlemen, you forced us out, physically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54928	Mr. Sarovic, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54929	Mr. Antic, I don't really know if you hear what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54930	Please don't talk to each other again. I want to bring the end of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54931	This is the last lap. None of what you said, I didn't say. So, I never claimed for a moment that you stole the party. Of course, you didn't steal the party and the ideology. You gave up these parties and ideologies, but you didn't give up your privilege, you didn't give up your mandate, that's what the problem is. As far as Mr. Nikolic is concerned, I'll ask him, it's no problem at all. I ask him every time, but he's not in the mood to talk to me. You know that "Mr. Cirko" has forbidden to go out on any duel with us, especially with me. On RTS, you canceled the show after your phenomenal success on Vozdovac where we took less than 4% and you 30%. You didn't have the courage to go to a television duel, because unlike the RTS journalists, I wouldn't skip the question of where you got the money for a billboard on the 313,000 dinar Dušanovo Bridge. I would not skip the question of the "Profiller Team", which is funded by your "Mr. Cirka" and financed by the citizens of Zemun and Voždovac. That's the fundamental difference. One time, Jorgenka tried something to answer me, and then "Cirko" turned his ears. You'll probably get your ears turned after this. (President: Good, let's bring the end.) I'm done. One thing you're right about, Mr. Antic, and that's the fact that it did become a joke.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54932	National MP, Vice President Gordana Comic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54933	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to earn your attention in less than five minutes by giving my contribution to the discussion through a picture of the free mandate, political party and institutions, and a brief display of the right to vote, the right to be elected and represented. Of course, it is the general right to vote, which was declared a general right to vote by civil revolutions from the end of the 18th century, but not all of them got it. Only men got it. It took a hundred years to pass so that the right to vote, the right to choose, start fighting and women. From the beginning of the 20th century, it was a struggle for women activists to be arrested, punished by prison, death, because it was considered totally unacceptable not to have or lack a mandate, not to discuss the political party's position towards the institution, but rather not to speak of a woman being able to vote. A hundred years since then, that fight hasn't ended yet. I would like to make my proposal to extend the debate on the amendment submitted by our colleagues Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papug, that the provision that we have introduced, which is existing and, fortunately, is valid in political parties, because there are 22.5% of the members of the less-represented sex in this House... So let's talk about a future where every third place will be a member of a less represented sex. As much as one such request comes across stereotypes, it's just as good as it's submitted, because it allows dialogue and debate on an important issue that, if resolved with good will, skills and knowledge of dialogue, is something that all benefit from. One of the stereotype arguments, that it is okay as it is and that it is difficult within political parties to find enough members of political parties so that every fourth on the list is represented, falls into the water before the number of members of political parties, ranging from 34% to 46% in Serbia in each party. It is not likely that we want to be members but that we do not want to run for office and vote for us, by following electoral rules and laws that prescribe the behaviour of political parties, promoting the programmes of political parties to which we belong. The second argument heard or heard, when it comes to a request for a woman to be in each third or fourth place, is that there are not enough quality women. It's an argument that I'm opposed to a verifiable argument that women are as capable of men as they are of no quality. The goods are quality - shoes, purse, furniture. It's quality. A woman is either capable or not. I believe that the dialogue on the amendment submitted by our colleagues would help us to give a chance to colleagues who are not present in parliament, in the national parliament here with us or in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, or in local self-government; to show that there are enough capable and valuable women in Serbia, who have equal abilities, skills and skills for politics in future elections for MPs. I have full awareness that it is a process and that it is a fight fought by dialogue as a basic strategy of democracy. So, dialogue with all those who are most and who need to vote on a proposal. The majority are in politics, of course, men. I have no doubt that there is a built basis for this dialogue being conducted. Why is it important to discuss the representation of women on lists and the representation of women in political life and places of decision? Because it's an event that can bring a lot of good change. And because today we don't wonder how women's children go to school, how women's children can get jobs, how women's children can inherit, which was quite unusual, quite rare, and so on and so forth, it wasn't even present in the countries of democracy that we look up to today. Our proposal is for women to be represented in politics in the Assembly to have dialogue so that in the decades ahead, our daughters and sons may wonder what discrimination is, what is inequality and what is it – there are no women in parliament. I will give my voice to amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People. I will try to provide enough votes in dialogue with you for the amendment of our colleagues Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga because I believe that this is the best message about whether we know what the mandate is for – defending the rights of those who do not have their voice. I will conclude with Mary Robinson’s quote: “A society where a woman’s voice is not heard, a congregation where a woman’s voice is not heard, it is not less than a woman’s, it is less human. “ I have no doubt that Serbia will be able to translate it into proof that it is worthy of the highest standards and civilizational norms of modern society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-12-0.u54934	I really thank Vice President Comic. Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 96? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) Allow me to conclude a principled search on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People. We'll be working on May 17th at 10:00 p.m. So, Tuesday. Thank you.
