ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52952	We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. I also remind you that Article 168 is Section 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that, in the course of the session, proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office may be put on the agenda, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the work of the session. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in the 1st position: “The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP. ” Paragraph 2 of Article 286 states: "Extremely, the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right of the position of the 1st member at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate." I ask whether the President or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right to Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52953	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I have already asked the question of harassment several times, I am free to say - terror, which is being held over the families of Goran Hadzic and General Ratko Mladic. Now I'm going to give you some information that is simply amazing, that in a civilised state official, I suppose, the authorities of the Serbian state can behave this way. In addition to numerous house searches by Goran Hadzic, the houses of his daughter, son-in-law, their relatives are also being searched, which is, you must admit, an amazing thing, because this is the way the government is trying to force Goran Hadzic to surrender. People from nearer and still around the Hadzic family are also being detained, so people are simply afraid to visit the Hadzic family at all. Otherwise, that's not all. They're threatening Goran's mother, Milenka Hadzic, 86 years old, who is immobilized, to take away her pension that she left behind after her husband died. To remind you, Bosiljko Mladic has taken a pension, which is regularly earned by General Mladic. They're threatening to take the roof over their heads, to drive them out of that house. Recently, an abandoned house was set on fire at their house. Police arrested a homeless man who lived there, however, he claims some people have come to light it. There are bounty hunters around the house Goran Hadzic, and our authority does not allow or react. I am now asking the Ministry of the Interior, BIA or any other body – whose people are terrorising the Goran Hadzic family in this way? They're threatening to kidnap members of the Hadzic family. Goran Hadzic's son, although he attended Law School, graduated from high school, can't study, can't work because he's being kidnapped. They figure this way they'll be able to force Goran Hadzic to surrender. Also, Goran Hadzic's son-in-law and daughter-in-law are threatening to kidnap them and kidnap their two-year-old son. Otherwise, this family had tragic World War II experiences. Goran's grandfather, Happy, got up and got himself killed from behind, took his heart out, and wouldn't let it be buried, and his family watched him fall apart for days of massacre. Listen to this: "The leader of the Ustasha action that killed my great-grandfather was Banko Mrkobasic, and Bano is the grandfather of Damir Mrkobasic, who was reported by the media in the 1990s to have made a necklace of the fingers of Serbian children killed in Vukovar. “ See what our country looks like. Well, imagine just to change power, to have some other authority come to ask the question of the robbery you've done since 2000, to betray this country, to accept the Eulex, the NATO Pact, to withdraw the charges against those who have committed a crime against peace and bombed Serbia, and to go after you in this way. It's your fault, but it's not your family's fault, it's not your relatives' fault. Do you think the state can behave like this? I warn Serbia's state authorities to stop terror against the families of Goran Hadzic and General Ratko Mladic. The Serbian Radical Party will take steps to file criminal charges under the law against those who abuse the families of Goran Hadzic and General Ratko Mladic in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52954	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52955	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I request a notice from the Minister of Culture and the Information of Predrag Markovic. Recently, in the printed media, we read the news that he was so-called. Public service, RTS, sued about 300,000 citizens for not paying a TV subscription. So this time I'm not going to talk about the quality of the program and what's going on on on that so-called. The public service; thank God, the whole spring is ahead of us and the meeting of the congregation, so it will open up many questions. This time, I want to point out a disgrace that has caused the public service of Serbia, as far as the citizens of Cačka, lost face forever. On Monday, fellow Members of the People's Parliament and all citizens of Serbia were denied one information, one beautiful, most beautiful picture that could happen in Serbia in these days – two kindergartens opened in the town of Cačka. Of which one, called "Little Captain", has taken care of five hundred and some minors; it is the largest kindergarten in the Balkans. There are no uncles, grandparents, many of whom there have been, and parents; here, innocent, nor guilty, are our children punished, our butterflies. That you saw hundreds of children singing the anthem “God of Justice ”! For what reason the RTS correspondence refused to take off the rally, that's all they know. As for Cachan and the city of Chačka, they lost face forever. I ask Minister Markovic to investigate who ordered RTS correspondence in Cačka not to attend the meeting. This isn't about a political rally. And we know whose service it is, in fact, public service. I would also like to warn from this place that I have asked and received from the Government the answer that they agree with me and that it is working on that part of the TV subscription, of about 15-20%, is directed towards local and regional televisions, since the public service obviously does not want to do its job. From the famous "Little Captain" kindergarten in the town of Cačka, the largest kindergarten in the Balkans, which was built by the citizens of Cačka... However, the money was very cleverly spent by the citizens of Cack in the last election. Maybe he'll choose others in the next election. Let them do that, too, when they build and open kindergartens, there's nothing wrong. Respecting the consistency, principle and honesty of Mr. Markovic, whom I met while he was president of the Assembly, I am sincerely saying this, I hope this will investigate, this case, this mess and the shame of the so-called. Public service, which robs Serbian citizens by charging double TV subscription, both via cable TV and through regular bills. They still have the nerve to sue 300,000 citizens. So I demand the responsibility of RTS Director, the editor of the information program and the correspondence of RTS in Cačka. You know, recently some journalists, who may have done it by mistake, I don't justify that mistake, have been fired on Vojvodina's Radio Television for two letters. Are Putin and Boris Tadic or hundreds of children in Chačka who are being punished more important? For the punishment they're being punished she doesn't even know, their parents will tell them about it; they've seen themselves dance well and sing on local televisions, but that's what Serbia should have seen. I'm saying this with full rights on behalf of the citizens of Chačka who pay TV subscription, and I'm one of them. We'll just see all together how long we're gonna pay that hack and that TV subscription, especially what's being paid double, and over cable TV and over a regular bill. I appeal to Minister Markovic, that's the man I trust, let whoever he wants me to blame, I'm telling you honestly, to investigate. This is a symbol of how it works. Public service. It is the government's service, this government, which makes citizens of Serbia poor, and this is the highlight of debauchery, shame and shame. They hired Chachans to remember as long as they turned on the TV screens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52956	National MP Konstantin Arsenovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52957	Last time I asked the Prime Minister a question about the payment of debt to military pensioners and the problem of pensions, ladies and gentlemen. military pensioners from Montenegro. I got the answer, and I thank them, although I can't figure out how this is going to work out. But I'm asking the question again... I would quote part of the answer where it is clear that the government has established a list of forty military users who meet all the conditions for establishing pension payments in the Republic of Serbia in line with the government's stated conclusion. So that's perfectly clear and there's no further dilemmas. However, it is obvious that someone in the planning of the funds failed to put this issue, i.e. the financial resources needed, into the 2011 budget. These people are still retired. In reply to my reply, it reads: “The problem of pension payments to these users re-emerged in 2011 and in connection with the resulting situation, the ministry finds the possibility of providing additional funding for the current financial year.” Such an answer is of no use to me, or to these people; it is their sole source of income. I ask the government to decidently give me an answer when these people will be included in the system. It's about this. Next, I have to comment on the article that came out in "News" on 24 March 2011. The title is ‘Full squadron for veterans’. Not to comment on this text, but I'm worse, to say uglier, I haven't read the text. This is one message that... I don't have any words to call her, but it also contains genocide elements. In other words, it indicates here that military pensioners are spending one squadron and that they are guilty of the military being unable to equip themselves with modern means. What's the message behind that, what's to be done with these pensioners? Tomorrow we'll call all the other pensioners the same way. On the other hand, the fact that there's inaccuracies in the text, I don't want to comment on it, but I think the Department of Defense had to react to one of these ridiculous texts. For this reason, I ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to provide us with information on the average pension of mid-caps, higher and higher professional training, employees of the "civil sector", because I want to once establish a relationship and take down the anthema that military pensions are too high, to see what kind of relationship we are in. This is how it's abused, it's put in place that military pensioners have extremely high pensions, that they're guilty, maltenes, for all of them. And to conclude, it's simply incorrect information that the Department of Defense... It no longer goes into their budget to pay off military pensions, does not burden the budget, but goes through the Ministry of Labour and Politics. It's very important for me to get an answer to this question, provided that, if possible, and I don't believe that it isn't, we have an era of computers, I get average earnings for middle, high and high professional equipment, counting on those categories of people who have a retirement internship for 30 years and more. Then we can make a real comparison, so let's see who's who, make sense and justification for this attitude and relationship. I wish the Department of Defense, I don't think it ordered that kind of text, I don't know who the author is, they're initials, they're fenced by this kind of writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52958	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Do we have any information on who's the authorized representative for this point? It is necessary for the President of the Parliament Club or the Vice-President of the Parliament Club to provide information on who is authorised by the MPs. (Zoran Shami, from the place: it has already been delivered. I thank you. MP Zoran Shami. A notice will be delivered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52959	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, about a month ago, on this same occasion, I asked the Prime Minister what he would do with the strike of educators and the announced strikes of other public services important to the state. I didn't get an answer until today. The training workers strike lasts more than two months and only two days ago the government first went out with someone like that, a proposal. If God does, the strike will end, and the situation is such that none of the "doctors" are guilty, only the "patient died", i.e. Kids haven't had regular classes in over two months. In all that time, I have to admit, messages are coming from the government that are mildly cynic. I'd have better expressions for that, but they're probably not suitable for this congregation. That's how we are, for example. I heard from the Prime Minister that educators are about to be happy about what they're doing at all, because, behold, he boasts about those millions of unemployed at the Labour Bureau, of which 400,000 remained unemployed in the term of the government alone. It's really a commendable thing. It turns out that just now the educators are responsible for the fact that there are millions of unemployed. Then, in the meantime, we heard from the Minister of Education every day that 60% of schools don't strike, as if the amount of damaged children is measured by the number of schools. They probably don't strike some small country schools, and those big city schools, with over a thousand students, strike, so it's inappropriate to handle the number of schools, should be handled by the number of children who don't have regular classes. In doing so, the government keeps pointing out, and that is fine, that the current budget deficit cannot be increased, which is clear. It also points out that if some revenues increased, some funds would appear there. I don't think the proceeds... I'd like them to increase, but I don't think budget revenues are going to increase. However, the solution lay in very simple matters. It was supposed to make little changes in the budget. He's got money. They're just wasting themselves on inadequate things. Here's an example, I think I've already brought it out, but it's not too bad to repeat it: for goods and services... I really don't want to get used to my colleagues... 47,000 million dinars were allocated to the goods and services of ministries and all numerous agencies and, I say, public firms in the Republika Srpska budget this year. That's almost half a billion euros. That's almost 50% of the education budget, which is 114,000,000,000. There are still dozens of billions that are set aside for services and for third parties. Only a few items doubtless can achieve some savings and could transfer that money, on the one hand, enlighten; on the other hand, it is also a disaster in health care. Health has received a nominal increase of 0.3% compared to last year, although the budget has increased by 11%. In doing so, those same goods and services increased by 17.5%. You know, it's good if the strike ends as soon as possible; it's not good that the government on this shows that nothing's wrong. Just one more thing, I didn't notice that the Ministry of Education, or that the government reacted to the scandalous billboard of a private university, Megatrend,... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... who publicly invites young people to finish their colleges, then then flee outside. Since the government is not responding, I can only conclude that it is the government's policy – that young, smart, educated, talented should be fled from this country as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52960	Six minutes. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives wish to exercise their right under Article 286? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for a word, we continue our work. Given that there are proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, I would ask the Members of Parliament to, in accordance with Article 168(3), establish a quorum for work, or whether the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure have been met, that if the proposal is put on the agenda by emergency procedure in the sitting room, the number of MPs should be present to decide, or 126 MPs. I also ask the National Assembly President, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, to briefly interrupt his regular duties outside the hall and join us in the quorum and voting. I ask the MPs who are in the O.R. to violate the business provisions on non-registration in the system not to disturb the work of the session. I ask MP Zoran Krasic not to disturb the session. It is enough that it is tolerated to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is sitting in an O.R. and not registered in an electronic voting system. I ask the MPs to focus on their obligations, and that's the vote. Proposals for placing on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, during the sitting, pursuant to Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: State Major Prosecutors, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an urgent procedure on the agenda of this session, a proposal for candidates for the election of election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 28 March 2011. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I find that of the 126 present, registered in the electronic system, 125 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National Assembly President Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, based on Article 168 of Item 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda of this session be put on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that of the 126 MPs registered in the electronic voting system 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has called for today's session to be attended by representatives of the promoters: Zagorka Dolovac, the President of the State Council of Prosecutors and Ljubisa Dragaševic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors. We move to a unique search of the 32nd agenda – a proposal for the election of elected members of the state's attorneys from the Public Prosecutors' Office and the Deputy Prosecutors' Office with the Permanent FUNCTION, No 02-1213/11, since 28 March 2011, which has been submitted by the State's Chief Prosecutors' Attorneys' Office and Deputy Public Prosecutors' Office, No 02-1213/11 since 28 March 2011, who filed the State's Major Prosecutors' Office. I remind you, according to Article 193 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group “Forward Serbia” – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 24 minutes; the SPS-JS – 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all MPs' groups, unless they have already done so, to immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4), as well as to inform the presidents of parliamentary groups or vice-presidents of parliamentary groups about the possible selection of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single investigation into the proposal for candidates to elect election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office. Does the representative of Proposer Zagorka Dolovac, president of the State Council of Prosecutors, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52961	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on Article 35. The State Council of Prosecutors Act of the State's Major Prosecutors, held on 24 March this year, unanimously reached a decision. It is proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect the following candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors: from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office Zorica Stojsic, Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of the Public Prosecutors; from the appeals public prosecutors, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crimes and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, Miljko Radisavljevic, Prosecutor for Organized Crime; from the territory of the autonomous provinces of Dragoljub Barjamovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Appellate Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. After successfully held and organised elections for candidates for election members of the permanent assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Order of Fundamental and Higher Public Prosecutors from 20 January to 3 March of this year, when public prosecutors and their deputies decided on democratically organised and implemented elections to propose candidates to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the election of which the National Assembly was informed during the proposal of these candidates, 17 March this year, the State Major Prosecutors continued their election activities in order to enable more urgent formation of the full assembly of members of this very important prosecutor and state authority who are instigating from public prosecutors, i.e. from the prosecution profession itself. In view of the above, the Electoral Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors has reached a solution on the establishment of a final list of candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the Republic Public Prosecutors' Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, as well as the Prosecutor's Office from the territory of the Autonomous Province, on 10 March 2011, and following a resolution on the abolition of the previously established lists of candidates, as well as the resolutions on the abolition of the candidacy on 23 February of this year, which followed the withdrawal of the candidacy by the public prosecutors themselves and the deputy prosecutors on those lists. I would take this opportunity to stress that these three candidates have been withdrawn solely because of the desire of the candidates themselves that, despite the law of the envisaged opportunity to point out their candidacy, they will not be subject to any controversy or objection on any side, and that this is why an honorable and professional desire to contribute to the work of the State's senior prosecutor in the coming period does not become a contradiction to itself. So on March 23rd this year, both public prosecutors and deputy prosecutors from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, appeals public prosecutors, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, and the Autonomous District prosecutors were given the opportunity to elect their representatives in the State Council of Prosecutors. That's what the vast majority of them did, and the turnout was 95.37%. With their vote, they have shown that they believe that the elected, and now proposed, candidates enjoy their great trust, that they are professional, worthy, and that their work results justify this outcome of the vote. I would like to stress with special satisfaction that the elections for candidates for permanent members of the State Council of Prosecutors, both those of March 3rd and those who today have been the subject of proposing to the National Assembly, have been organised in accordance with legal and sublaw acts, and have been at the highest level of respect for the democratic rights of voters, i.e. Public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, as well as respect for the democratic procedure, the secrecy of the vote, which was conducted at practically the same level as foreseen for elections for Assembly MPs, as well as in the comparative law of developed democratic states and societies is not so common in the case of prosecutors. In view of the above, I believe that my duty as an authorised promoter is extremely simplified and that it represents a simple transfer of the clearly expressed will of the public prosecutor's profession, which should be a strong enough motive for the National Assembly, therefore, to the MPs, to support this democratically expressed will by your vote. Therefore, the State's Chief Prosecutors propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for an election member of the State's Council of Prosecutors of the Republic Public Prosecutors' Office Zorica Stojsic, deputy member of the republic's public prosecutor. A short copy of the biography was born in Pristina on June 7th 1961. The law school ended in Belgrade in 1986. From May 1989 to 31 October 1992, she was an intern at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, when she also passed the judicial exam, after which she was employed as an expert associate at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade until 31 July 1994, and was first elected to the prosecutor's office on 1 August 1994, as deputy in the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. The post was held until December 31st, 2002, when it was elected deputy public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Between September 2007 and the end of 2009, it was the first deputy in the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office. Since 1 January 2010, she has been elected deputy member of the Republic Public Prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. Secondly, the state's chief prosecutor for an election member of the state's chief prosecutor from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors, appeals public prosecutors, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes suggests Miljko Radisavljevic, the prosecutor for organised crime. He was born on 16 December 1959 in Kraševec. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1984, a traineeship at the Municipality Court in Krusevec, from 1985 to 1987, and passed a judicial exam in Belgrade in 1987. For the first time, he was elected deputy municipal public prosecutor in 1989, first in Barvarin, and then at the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Krusevec. At the post of deputy district attorney in Krusevec, he was first elected in 1998 and held the post until 31 December 1999, in order to serve as municipal public prosecutor in Krusevec from 1 January 2000 to 15 November 2001. From 16 November 2001 to 13 July 2007, he served as deputy district attorney in Krusevec. He was sent from this post on 24 July 2007 to the Special Prosecutor's Office for the fight against organised crime, and since 1 January 2010, he has been elected to the prosecutor's office in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and is still in office today. Under three, the State's Chief Prosecutors of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors of the Autonomous District Prosecutors, Dragoljub Barjanovic, deputy public prosecutor in Novi Sad, proposes. He was born in Novi Sad on 31 March 1951, where he also graduated from Law School 1979. From August 1979 to October 1981, he was an intern at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, after which he passed a judicial exam. The public prosecutor's office was first elected on October 7, 1981, at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad. The public prosecutor's post in the prosecution was held until February 19th 1990, when he was elected deputy public prosecutor at the Novi Sad District Attorney's Office, in which he worked on the most complex criminal cases. From September 1999 to August 2010, he served as a lawyer, and was elected Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad from January 1st 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52962	I would like to thank President Zagorka Dolovac. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52963	Mrs. Comic, I have to apologize to you, we're 16 seconds behind, given that you've put this on the agenda, so we've had to collect that paperwork, see what's going on here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52964	People's MP, please stick to the agenda. The president of your parliamentary group had all the information, as did all the other presidents of the parliamentary groups, in synopsis, and information on proposals for the agenda. Please, about the agenda. With regard to the problems of time you have within the parliamentary group, consult the Deputy Secretary-General or Secretary-General, and please do not violate the Rules of Procedure during the debate and your twenty minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52965	I just apologized for a few seconds, not for what you're saying. Otherwise, I'm sticking to the agenda, you see, uninterrupted. It's a great honor to talk about how to transform, arrange, adapt everything we can say is a judiciary. This is an extraordinary opportunity to inform the public. I'm reading, Mrs. Komic, an explanation of the motion for a decision, so you know, in advance I'm informing you, to remove all the uncertainty. In this explanation, Mrs Comic writes like this, and the lady just said it was a respected democratic procedure. You know, the democratic procedure was respected on March 23rd this year. The turnout was exceptional, 95.37%, as it was in Tito's day. It wasn't a referendum. The theme of the election was, I am now reading, whether those who have the right to vote in the prosecutions are sure, whether someone convinced them that when candidates were proposed, as they say here, "expected" that these proposed candidates would say, "the same" would be professional. So, the democratic procedure discussed whether they were professional; there is no college, there is no first-degree, second-degree procedure, but in the democratic procedure it is considered whether the candidate is professional, and then, please, whether the candidate is worthy, whether his results are such that they justify his choice. The democratic procedure determined whether his results justified the choice. Well, then, whether he enjoys his reputation, whether he enjoys his trust. It was all a matter of democracy. Of course, the D.A.'s democracy, and the D.A.'s office, you know, there's hierarchy, subordination, etc. Then, the proposing representative assured us that in a democratic procedure in the prosecution, a large majority of the votes decided to propose to the National Assembly that these three candidates be elected as a permanent composition of this larger prosecutor. Now let's get to it. On this list under regular number two there is Miljko Radisavljevic. He's the prosecutor for organized crime at the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime. He used to laugh, and now he smiles a little when he explains what he's doing during this function. Citizens in Serbia believe that, except that in the spring, cherries and some cherries bloom, what blooms for years, it is organised crime. Now, would you explain to me how the democratic procedure found that he had achieved epochal results at work in the fight against organised crime? You see how when a democratic procedure enters certain pores, it can turn out tragically. So, in the democratic procedure, it was found that Mr. Miljko had achieved extraordinary results. Mrs. Komic, I'm just reading the motionary's explanation, please. It says "Explanation" and below, the third paragraph from below, says this - that when proposing candidates are expected (see, "expects", it is like that European perspective, we offer you a European perspective) to be professional, so Miljko is professional, he is worthy of his results to justify the choice. Do you know who his results might seem like a commercial for? For organized crime. My people, in every sphere of social life, we have an affair and organized criminal group. The bankruptcy mob, the travel mob, the mob index; we have that garbage mob where Miljko, that quit, remember, was his ticket to advance. Wherever you turn, you have a mob. Now, in the democratic procedure, it has been found that he has achieved such good results that these results justify the expectation that in the democratic procedure... Prosecutors are committed to democracy, they'll make a good choice, and we've got nothing else to do here but -- carrots or sticks, take it or leave it. The procedure is maximumly implemented, respected. Everyone's hiding behind the procedure. The candidates say, "The people have chosen us." The prosecutor's people have chosen us. The proposal came to the Assembly. 126 MPs were provided in the Assembly, all finished. Mr. Phil, our first condition is over, in the successful transformation of the judiciary. We will have a permanent composition and they will be able to continue to work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Please, we solved that rebus from a few months ago, put a plus on, we got this. However, organised crime protagonists rub their hands. When the municipality registers a bidding, or a municipal enterprise, to create an object, then the builders report, they must seek references – where you built, when you built, did you respect deadlines, how many machines, how many engineers, carpenters, those who work with concrete, etc. And here, in democratic procedure, there is a reference. So open polling stations, candidate lists. Now let's get someone from the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime to vote against their boss. Please don't. This is a European standard. I really don't know what's wrong with me, I'm constantly praising you. Is it because your popularity is jumping? Maybe that's why. But the completely trivial thing is that signature in October, November or December I don't know what year. You've put all European standards here with us. We live by European standards. We don't need a signature. When the time comes to sign, they will say that it is not valid because you have met all the conditions – you have transformed the judiciary, what flowers, you have a super banking system, privatisation is extremely good, nothing works, everything is ideal. And you have achieved all of this by democratic procedure, with maximum respect for human rights, professional rights, rights of dignity, reputation, trust. I have no doubt that some have confidence in the proposed candidates. I'm absolutely sure of it. Darko Saric has confidence, I'm sure of it, since he hasn't been caught yet. Trust in this choice is also given to all those who have created the "Vojvodina Development Bank" from "Metals Bank". A friend of mine trusts, I'm sure. Pavlici has confidence. So he has great confidence in the proposed candidates. I'm not sure for some of the parliamentary majority to trust, but that's your internal matter. That's not what I want to get into. I don't want to calm down or argue, you'll handle it yourself. But there's an impression in the public that there's some kind of selectivity in organized crime, so we're touching this organized group, and we're not touching that other organized group. Why? This organized group should be a monopoliest. It's very simple and simple. If you read the paper and reject 99% of the information published in them and take only one percent, then please say that in the fight against crime, with the results of the 1% success, these three prosecutors burned. You don't need any democratic procedure. But no, democracy and democratic procedure depend on everything – both expertise and dignity, and reputation and whether the public has confidence in these proposed candidates etc. It's all respected. How can he do that? I don't know. That's what someone's gonna see. I don't want to go so many names, because you're squirming and saying that it's not polite, that it's supposed to be by the kumbar rules, imaginary, portable -- the cabbage looks, the meat comes out. I don't know what quality we're getting. I don't know. I don't see any guarantee that these three candidates are going to contribute so much to the work of this larger prosecutor that they come when they're resolved and elected... The best candidates come during the election, and those who do bad work will be resolved, as it will be their jurisdiction when they are in this authority. I don't see it. Why can't I see that? Because there are two permanent members of these judicial bodies - the minister and president of the Justice Committee. As long as we have this minister and this chairman of the Justice Committee, bad things will happen. Our chairman of the Justice Committee has no luck, simply, whatever he's caught on, it all drys out: the Federal Republic, and the state union, and that girl falls down the other day at the anniversary ceremony, in the presence of the chairman of the Justice Committee. Simple, jinx man. I'm in pain with you about it, but what do we do? I warn you, you won't. Then democracy and democratic procedure must be called. Can you imagine what it would look like if the kids in college were in line with the democratic procedure? Because knowledge means he passed the exam. It is likely that democracy will be introduced even when the exams are passed. Most of them again. Now, by democratic procedure, someone gets a reputation. We prove by democratic procedure that we must all trust the proposed candidates that you will choose, and we know that the transformation of our judiciary is financed by the United States. It's been funded for years. There aren't those who started this transformation process, wrote a strategy, but what to do to them, who with the devil the pumpkin is planting, you know how it goes – the pumpkins are banging on his head. As a parliamentary group, we do not want to participate in this kind of performance. I have not said for a moment that this proposed decision is not in line with the relevant members of the law that regulates this, I just want to draw attention to the fact that this transformation of the judiciary is quite a permanent and patient state. And a lasting and patient state, because there are no effects from that transformation, because there is no desire to transform the judiciary in a way that citizens have confidence in the court. Here, Mrs. Comic, I'm buying you these ten seconds to make you feel better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52966	You have 20 minutes at your disposal. Do you want to continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52967	Can I have those five minutes later? Now, well, now I'll take the word. I'm used to 15, I didn't know this was going to 20. You see, it's easy for me when my Gordana's here. When it's Slavica, it's a dangerous situation. Thank you. As soon as I praise you, there's no warning. Please don't. What can I tell you in five minutes? All this stuff you've been doing is bad. You didn't paint for nothing. You guys did it for nothing. The European Union doesn't want Serbia, it doesn't want you. Citizens live by European standards. Everything you've been doing for eleven years is in line with the standards of Europe. The signature doesn't mean anything. Except it's not like that. But a little more people will believe you because you're getting popular. How can these three candidates you choose fix the situation in our prosecution? Not at all. We know the result in advance. Is this noise about the transformation of the judiciary going down? He won't. You know, again these prosecutors will sue you there in Strasbourg, Brussels, etc. The delegations will go again. Because of the Constitutional Law, it was not possible to resolve a very decisive situation when it comes to judges – it is a continuity, as something that has been acquired by the adoption of a new Constitution. You can do anything, you can go back to the review, you can do everything people wrote to the Constitutional Court to treat as a complaint, to consider, but you won't solve the problem. You'll never solve that problem that exists today, that court rulings when they get to the office again because there's some kind of controller from abroad. That's what prosecutors say, Mrs. Dolovac, unhappy with the state of justice. I don't want to tell you what case it's about, so look for it yourself. I have to commend you, really. It is with a six-month delay, but you're arresting all those we indicated six months ago that they were causing problems. Here, I suggest, Mrs. Dolovac, that you immediately relieve these prosecutors who have received criminal charges against the responsible persons of the Dragon. You can get rid of them right away, but you won't. Not even the new composition of this larger prosecutor will do it, but selectively, decoratively, when someone politically interferes. In the second "Dnevnik": the group arrested, the group arrested. When will you arrest Miskovic? When are you gonna arrest Beck? I knew it, Chanak, I just didn't know where to hit you, but I knew you had to pick up somewhere. I knew you had to pick up somewhere. You too have a shred of struggle for the truth. There's got to be some kind of rot. There's no such thing as some in your environment, that's for sure. But it's got to go somewhere. That's what citizens expect. I provoke you to deny everything I'm saying and the people to judge who was right. That's where Canak backs me all day, morning to night. There, this is the situation, Mrs. Comic, which will not be able to be solved by a mild smile, nor by the number 126, nor by the solutions of that rebus regarding the candidacy, nor by those signatures will-not in October, perhaps not in November, in December. It's a colorful lie to cover up some more. Not you, but that logistics that goes from the world of tycoon, organized crime and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52968	Since no one has applied for a word on the lists of parliamentary groups, so no one has been reported for the debate and for the use of the time of the parliamentary groups, I ask if anyone else who has not used the right of Article 96 wants to use the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for the selection of the holders of the above-mentioned functions in the voting day. I thank the proposing representatives, Zagorki Dolovac, the president of the State Council of Prosecutors and Ljubisa Dragasevic, the election member of the State Council of Prosecutors, for his participation in the work. Thank you. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly You have adopted a proposal for a decision taken by the President of the National Assembly Slavica Đukić Dejanović. I remind you, according to Article 193, it's in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group of MPs – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group “Forward Serbia” – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the Parliament group of Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina Group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs, as well as to submit a notice on the possible selection of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision on the selection of deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Does the President of the National Assembly want the word Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) No one from the parliamentary groups submitted a list of statements for a word, so before concluding a single search, I ask if someone who has not used their right to Article 96 wants the word. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. In that case, I conclude a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today, Thursday, March 31st, 2011, starting at 12:00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Under the obligation to respect members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at 1600 hours, there will be a session attended by representatives of the government, which will take up to 19.00 hours, and the government will answer parliamentary questions. The session scheduled for 13.00 hours will be moved if the vote is not completed, and the MPs will be informed on time for the start of the session scheduled for today at 13.00 hours. The voting day is at 1200 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. Please insert the cards. The application of the electronic voting system found that 126 MPs were in the hall, which means we have a quorum to decide on. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Planning and Construction Laws I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction has been adopted in principle. I would like to inform you that the amendments have been drawn by the MPs of the People's Parliament, Vladan Jeremic, to Article 78, paragraph 3, Milisav Petronijevic, by way of a written amendment. 51, 78, 80th and Ivan Jovanovic in Article 41. It's a bill of law. At the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, MP Maja Lausevic withdrew the amendment to Article 46. It's a bill of law. On the basis of Article 163(2), the Legislative Committee is in accordance with Article 161(4). The Rules of Procedure rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 83 submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on, in accordance with Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure. Since the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendments are in line with the constitutional and legal system, I agree that they have become an integral part of the Bill of Amendments of Members Bojana Stanojevic to Members 18th and 26th and Ivan Jovanovic to Articles 27th and 48th and Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic to the article. 32, 49 and 62, Maja Lausevic on Articles 45, 59, 64 and 78. Milan Lapčević and Vladimir Milentijevic, member of 58, Nenad Konstantinović and Edip Sheriffov, member of 79th and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group to Article 9. I also find that an integral part of the bill has become the amendments of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction to Articles 41, 46, 48, 54 and 78. The bill, given that the representative of the proposings Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister, mining and spatial planning, accepted them at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Proposer Dr Oliver Dulic, environment, mining and spatial planning minister, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill's proposal in particular. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, five voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by an MP, Ms. Radet. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 18th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Vladimir Milentijevic of 127 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Proposer representative Dr Oliver Dulic, environment, mining and spatial planning minister, accepted the amendment during the review of the bill's proposal in particular. Of the 127 MPs, 112 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th Amendment with the correction was filed by Olena Papuga. Of 127 MPs, for six. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 28th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for three. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 37th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 41st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 46th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 49th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 51st amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 58th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 60th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Vladimir Milentijevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 60th amendment. Proposer Dr Oliver Dulic, environment, mining and spatial planning minister, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill's proposal in particular. Of the 128 MPs, for 115. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 70th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 76th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 78th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 78th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 7. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th Amendment has been submitted by Ambassador Oedipus of the Sheriffs. Of the 128 MPs, for 8. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 79th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 82nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Please let us be clear about this amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 84th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 88th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 88th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milorad Buha submitted to the 89th Amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 89th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to article 89. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you, it's a 90. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. In the light of the proposal for a law, the Government stated in particular the reasons why the law should enter into force before the eighth day following the date of its publication, which consists of the necessity to apply the provisions of this law without delay, in order to remove interference, in particular with regard to the jurisdiction to resolve complaints in the inspection procedure, as well as with regard to the implementation of the legalisation procedure of illegally built objects. Dear People's MPs, when we pleaded on the amendment to Article 82, which was submitted by 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and found that from 128 no one had declared themselves to this amendment, I did not realize that the amendment was not accepted, so I am now doing so because of the stenogram. Otherwise, I would like to put the motion to the vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I find that out of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. This means that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. Dear People's MPs, in accordance with Articles 87 and 90, allow me to inform you that I have scheduled a session in 1300 hours and will begin immediately upon the end of the vote. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF SOCIAL PROTECTION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft social protection law to the vote, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the proposal in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendments of the People's MPs: Zoran Popovic to Article 2, Dusan Maric to Article 15, together with Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic to Article 23, together Milice Vojić Marković, Donke Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazić to members 25 and 146, together with Zlata Djerić, Aleksandre Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic to member 26, Boris Poturić to member 67, Miletic Mihajlovic to member 40, with correction, 41 and 83, with corrections, Gordana Paunović Milosavljević to member 56, Munir Poturka to member 67, with correction, group of 21 MPs of the Serbian group “Forward” to members 73. and 104, Gordana Rajkov to members 92, 764. Also, an integral part of the bill's proposal became: the amendment of MP Miletic Mihajlovic to Article 81, with a correction, as the representative of the applicant accepted the amendment in particular during the search, with the correction, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Issues to Articles 57, 94, 124, 127, 133, and 206, which the Government accepted, and the Legislative Committee assessed that they were in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. We're moving on to a decision. The People's MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. During the search in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 117 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 4th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 13th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 14th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic and a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. During the search in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 107 for. I understand the amendment has been accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. During the search in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 110 for. I understand the amendment has been accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 29th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 31st Amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 41st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the title above Articles 44 and 44 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 47th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 48th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 54th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 55th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 57th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic to Article 58. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 68th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 81st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 82nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Balint Pastor. Of the 128 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 82nd Amendment was submitted by Jelena Travar Miljevic. Of the 128 MPs, two voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 84th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Jelena Travar Miljevic, and together by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 85th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, one MP voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 87th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 88th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 88th Amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Of the 128 MPs, 9 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 88th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 95th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 101st amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Amendment 103. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 120th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Bortic submitted the amendment to Article 133. Of the 128 MPs, 10 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment to Article 178. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 180th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 218th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on a bill on social protection in general. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on social protection. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF SPORT After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill of law on sports to the vote, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted for the bill in principle. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal became the following amendments: the 22th People's MPs Zlata Đerić and Aleksandra Ilic, the MP Nebojsa Rangelović and the group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, together submitted by Members of the National MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac, to Members 102, who jointly submitted the MPs Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic, to the title above Article 104 and Article 104, with a correction, submitted by the MPs Milos Aligrudić, to a group of 21 people's MPs MPs group. 136th and 138th, which was submitted together by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic to the 14th, who, in the same text, together submitted Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic and MP Djordje Milicevic, to the 151st group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, to the 153th member of the People's MP Dobrislav Prelic, per article. 154th and 174th, submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic and member 194, with a correction by the government. I also find that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: to Article 3 submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic and to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljević, since they were accepted by the Committee on Youth and Sports and Representatives, i.e. the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I remind you that, in writing, amendments were withdrawn by MP Miljan Rangelovic to Article 118, paragraphs 1 and 2 which he submitted on 24 February 2011 and by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group to members 14, 75 and 184 who submitted on 26 February 2011. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of the 129 MPs, 8. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Of the 129 MPs, 7 voted yes. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Of the 129 MPs, four voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Of the 129 MPs, 7. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic and joint MPs, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milos Aligrudic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 15th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac. Of the 129 MPs, 6. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 24th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac. Of the 129 MPs, 9. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac. Of the 129 MPs, 7. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 30th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 30th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 33rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 37th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 38th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 39th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An MP named Milorad Krstin submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 48th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 49th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 53rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 54th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 60th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 63rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 6rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 64th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 65th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 66th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of the 129 MPs, 11. The amendment was not accepted. The 69th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 70th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 75th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 76th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 77th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 77th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 77th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 78th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 79th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 80th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 81st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 82nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 84th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 85th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which added a new member of 85 after article 85, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, with a correction, which is added after article 85 by a new member of 85, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new member of 85 after article 85, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of the 129 MPs, the vote was 10. The amendment was not accepted. The 86th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 86th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 87th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 88th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 89th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 90th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 91st amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 92th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 96th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, MP Djorđa Milicevic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the title above Article 104 of the amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the title above the 107th and 107th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 107th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 107th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 107th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 108th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 108th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 112 and 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 112th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 112st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 112st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 11rd amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 113. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 114th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 114th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 114th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by a group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Zoran Kasalovic submitted the amendment to Article 114. Of 128 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 114th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 115th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Zoran Kasalovic. Of the 129 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic to Article 118. Of the 129 MPs, two voted for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to Article 122. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, the vote was 6. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st National MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Amendment 123. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 124th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, 12 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 124th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of the 128 MPs, 12 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 134. Of the 128 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 137 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the title above Article 142i. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 143 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment to Article 143. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment to Article 149. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 150th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 154th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 157th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 158th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 158th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Youth and Sports Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 128 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic to Article 158. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 158th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of 128 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 162 by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 164th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 165th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 165th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 166th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 167 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 169th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 170th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 171st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 173rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 174. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, with a correction, which is added after Article 174, by a new member of 174a, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of 128 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 175th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, with correction, to Articles 175, 176, 177, 179, 180, 181 and 182, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of 128 MPs, 12 for. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 176 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 176th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 177th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 177th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Youth and Sports Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of 128 MPs, 93 for. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 178 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted to Article 178 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 178th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Djordje Milicevic. Of 128 MPs, 13 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 179th amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 180th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted to the 180th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 180th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 180th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Djordje Milicevic. Of 129 MPs, 9 for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 181st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 183rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 184 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 186 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 188th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 189 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Momo Colaković and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 190 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Momo Colaković, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, joint MPs Djordje Milicevic and Zoran Kasalovic, and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, submitted. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 194th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Of 128 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on a vote for the Sport Law, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a proposal for a law on sports. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on the List of dwellings, households and dwellings 2011. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Census, Households and Apartments Act in 2011 in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in principle for the bill. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Census, Households and Apartments Act in 2011 as a whole. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Census of POLYOPRIVREDE 2011. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the 2011 Agricultural List Act, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted for the bill in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 11th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Krstin and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Dobrislav Prelic and a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 5th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment, with the correction, was filed by Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the 2011 Agricultural List Act, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the bill. I find that the National Assembly passed a bill amending the 2011 Agricultural List Act. We are moving to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE REGULAR STATISTICS PROGRAMME IN THE RETAIL since 2011. Until 2015. YEARS Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the proposal for a decision, since no amendments have been made to the proposal for a decision, we move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme from 2011 to 2015. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the motion for a decision. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme between 2011 and 2015. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted for the bill in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 2nd amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic submitted the 3rd amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 7th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Pejcic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government is a member of the 8th. The draft law proposes that the provisions of Articles 1, 2 and 3. The draft law has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a feedback is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly will in particular decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put the motion to the vote, contained in Article 8. Proposal for a law, that there is a general interest in the provisions of Articles 1, 2 and 3. The draft law has a feedback. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Articles 1, 2 and 3. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Taxes on Use, COUNTRY AND NOSE OF GOODs, as amendments to Article 160(3) of the Law have not been submitted to that proposal. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. Before joining the vote on the draft law in general, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of its publication. I remind you it's Article 4. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The rules of procedure, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of its publication in the Official Messenger. Since we have come to an agreement on the early entry into force of the law, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for A.D. BELGRADE ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE HYPO ALPE-ADRIA-BANKE A.D. BELGRADE BY DESCRIPTION OF THE PUBLISHE OF THE KOSOVICA MITROVICA, ZEČAN AND ZUBIN POTUTION As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and before the transition to decision-making I remind you that, according to Article 105, paragraph 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing, mostly votes by all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Banke a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 130 were declared. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Banke a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok, in general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (SERBIA ELECTROPRIVATION PROJECT) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I remind you, Article 105 is point 4 point 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, scheduled for the National Assembly to decide most of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German financial institution KfW under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda Srbija (WH Zvornik Rehabilitation Project) by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to a vote on proposals for a law on ratification of international agreements (points 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21 and 22 of the agenda). Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals of the Law on Confirmation of International Contracts (points 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21 and 22 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, will vote only in general on these draft laws. I also remind you that the government has withdrawn from the procedure a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Great Socialist People's Arab Arabia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports, which was scheduled to be considered as the 20th item of the agenda. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Credit Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law confirming the credit agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Saradication and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues I am putting forward a motion for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memoranda between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on the Regulation of the Long Republic of Albania on the Prosecution of the Memorandum between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Albania. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 14th item of the agenda – I am putting on the vote a bill confirming the Third Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the proposal for a bill confirming the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons against Forced Peters. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE ON EXCHANGE I am putting to the vote the draft law on the approval of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on amendments to the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on extradition. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 17th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry into or residence is illegal between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the transfer and acceptance of the Republic of Macedonia on the implementation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the handover of the Republic of Macedonia and the Government of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the entry into the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Serbia is illegal. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the Regulation of the Border Transport Organisations of the Republic of Serbia I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the regulation of the border traffic regime. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 19th item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the majority of the Bosnian and Herzegovina ministers on police co-operation I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on police co-operation. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 21st point of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the proposal for a bill confirming the final acts of the World Radio-communication Conference (WRC-07). Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on VETERINARY SARADNJI I place on the vote the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Veterinary Cooperation. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president, the Vice-President and members of the Administrative Committee of the Republic of Republic Communications Agency After the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs shall exercise the electoral authority of the National Assembly. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to elect a president, a deputy president and a member of the Management Board of the Republic of electronic communications agency. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the President, Vice-President and members of the Management Board of the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications in the selection and wish them much success in their work. We move to item 24 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBER OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL As the National Assembly carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises electoral authority with the majority of votes of all MPs. I would like to vote on the motion by the President of the Republic to elect Dr Pavle Petrovic as President of the Fiscal Council. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly chose by majority the votes of all the MPs, Dr Pavel Petrovic, as president of the Fiscal Council. I am voting on the proposal by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to elect Dr Vladimir Vukkovic as a member of the Fiscal Council. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Vladimir Vukkovic as a member of the Fiscal Council by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting on the vote by the Minister of Finance's proposal to elect Mr. Nikola Altiparmakov as member of the Fiscal Council. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mr Nikola Altiparmakov as a member of the Fiscal Council most of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the President and the members of the Fiscal Council on the election and wish them much success in their work. We move to the 25th item of the agenda – the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the council of the Republic of Slovenia's radio agency from the Order of the University of Serbia After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before we move on to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides to elect a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for the majority of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that the Committee on Culture and Information is in accordance with Article 24. The Law on Broadcasting, found a list of two candidates for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of the University of Serbia Conference, and this: Dr Natasa Gospić and Goran Petrovic, of whom only one is elected as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Natasa Gospić as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have to repeat the vote, on the grounds that you can't vote twice for the same vote, define yourself as one candidate. Let's go to the vote again. Please, we have two candidates, and we plead first for Dr Natasa Gospić. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. I understand that Mrs Natasa Gospić has not been elected. I am voting on the proposal to elect Goran Petrovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly chose Goran Petrovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of the Serbian University Conference. Let me congratulate Goran Petrovic on his election as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and wish him a lot of success in his work. We move to the 26th item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEP OF THE COrupTION AGENCY ON CORRUPTION After the National Assembly has conducted a search on the candidate proposal, before moving to a decision on a proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Zlata Djordjevic, deputy editor-in-chief of Beta news agency as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The system's out of order. We're gonna have to re-establish the quorum. So I interrupt the current vote to determine the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I figure there's 128 of us, or we have a quorum. I am voting on the proposal to elect Zlata Djordjevic, deputy editor-in-chief of Beta news agency as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly chose Zlata Djordjevic, deputy editor-in-chief of Beta News Agency, as member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, by majority of votes. We move to the 27th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the MEMBER STATE OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all Members of Parliament, shall exercise the electoral authority of the National Assembly. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of a member of the Health Council of Serbia. We'll have to stop the vote and re-establish the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that there are 126 of us present. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of a member of the Health Council of Serbia. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate Professor Dragan Savic on his choice, on your behalf and on my behalf, and wish him much success in his work. We move to the 28th point – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty which regulates the responsibility for the reimbursement of expenses between the Republic of Serbia and the ILO, I would remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments to Article 160(3) of the Law have not been submitted to that proposal. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. Before joining the vote on the draft law in general, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of its publication. I'd like to remind you that it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia-International Contracts". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The rules of procedure, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 129 MPs, it voted 128. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have come to the conclusion on the early entry into force of the law, I am now putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty which regulates the liability for cost compensation between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, passed a bill confirming the Treaty that regulates the liability for cost compensation between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move to the 29th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS After the National Assembly has conducted a single search and before moving to a decision, I would remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the proposal for a decision, decides most of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving to a decision and I'm putting the motion to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. We move to the 30th point of the agenda – Proposal for a MEP OF THE COUNTRY MEETING MEMBER STATES After the National Assembly has conducted a unique search before moving to a decision, I would remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, is exercising the electoral authority of the National Assembly. I am voting on the motion for candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has made a decision to elect election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the State Council of Prosecutors in the election and wish them much success in their work. We move to the 31st point of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of Members of the High Council of the Judges since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, decides on the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary from the order of judges. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members of the High Council of the Court of Justice. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision to elect members of the High Council of Judges by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate the elected judges and wish them success in the work. We move to the 32nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a PUBLIC MEETING MEETING MEETING MEMBER STATES After the National Assembly has conducted a single search, before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all Members of the National Assembly, exercises the electoral authority of the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has made a decision to elect election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the State Council of Prosecutors in the election and wish them much success in their work. We are moving to the 33rd item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on the election of the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly we must re-establish the quorum. Since we have conducted a single search, before we move to a decision and before we determine the quorum, just to remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises electoral jurisdiction with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has made a decision to elect members of the Committee of the National Assembly. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which the MPs pointed. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 16 March 2011, at 10.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Buha, at a session on 22 March 2011, at 1545, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 29 March 2011, at 1626, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 29 March 2011, at 1629, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. (The session was closed at 14.35 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52970	THIRD SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION 31 March 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.35 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 113 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the 2011 session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the People's Party has submitted such a written statement of objection to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 2011 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 21, 22, 23, 24 and 28 February 2011. Please plead. Of the 130 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2011 National Assembly session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 21, 22, 23, 24 and 28 February 2011. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, a proposal to shorten the time for discussion, a proposal to combine the debate and a proposal to change the order of each item of the agenda. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the EPS Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 March 2011. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law on the confirmation of the Financial Treaty Corridor 10 Autoway (E-80) Phase 1 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2011. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government is on 29 March 2011, based on Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Criminal Court on the execution of the International Criminal Court sentence, which was filed by the National Assembly on 25 March 2011. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 March 2011. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which lodged on 30 March 2011. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group is on the basis of Article 92. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, proposed on 7 February 2011. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? ( Yes. ) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52972	Here, on the second hand, we are trying to put on the agenda amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, which was done in a way that he could take effect the next day after the vote in this house. Although we all know the problems, how much it costs us the current Public Procurement Act, we are warned by the State Auditing Institution, damaged citizens, damaged firms in procedures where they don't get jobs, businesses in all major cities where they know we don't need to compete anymore because the pictures of those who get the job are almost published, how much they lose the will to work in this country and religion in the country because the tenders are set up, how much we lose credibility as a country because we're not fighting corruption, we're already maintaining one of these laws, and all this is causing a budget deficit, as if it's not enough for people who represent the majority, or executive authorities, or those who could impose on the current MPs to even open this conversation. I really don't understand, if today's press has announced that the European Commission advises you, that in the area of public procurement Serbia has received a new question about whether there are rules on the fight against corruption in the area of public procurement, this law on changes and additions is the answer to that. The press is full of texts on the need to single out 110m euros for the emergency procurement of fax rolls. Every city knows who, why, and how much it pays to win a tender. Regular official procedures are an exception in Serbia. Jobs are obtained in four eyes, in a negotiating process, and the basic principle, which enables conflict of interest and corruption, is based on the fact that there are no procurement plans or obligations to publish them. That's why there's exceptions, a four-eyed deal. Too bad, because this law, which you do not want to talk about because you do not want public procurement to be public, is measured by the figures of 603m euros, as Mrs Zagorka Dolovac says, up to a billion euros, as the issuer institutions say. It is money that can make three bridges in Belgrade and that could give us three years to return interest on loans for which we also don't have a report on what they've been invested in. Explain to Serbian citizens why you do not want to discuss amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52973	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Here you go. Of the 139 MPs, 12 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic proposed, on the basis of Article 92(3) and in agreement with Article 95th indent 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a shortening of the time for discussion (a shortened procedure) on the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. With 125 votes for, out of a total of 131 members of parliament, I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic is, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Public Registration, Proposal for a Law on Enforcement and Security, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions and the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Implementation of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Market on the Market of Capital and on the Law on the Law on the Law on Amendments of the Law on Foreign Affairs, Proposal for an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Criminal Court on the Consent of the Law on Investment Funds, Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia on the European Union, Proposal for Amendments on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the European Union, on the Republic to the European Union, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word based on article 92? No, I don't. I thank you. In that case, I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I find that with 127 votes for, of the 139 members of Parliament present, the National Assembly has accepted a proposal from the MP. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic is, on the basis of Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed a change in the order of the agenda of the session, so that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments is considered to be the 11th item of the agenda. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I am concluding the vote and I realize that of the 139 MPs present, 123 voted in favour, and the National Assembly accepted this proposal by majority vote. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, a proposal to supplement the agenda, a proposal to shorten the time for discussion, a proposal to merge the debates and a proposal to change the order of the agenda points, on the basis of Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and find that with 128 votes for, of the 140 members present, the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Lawyerry, 2. Proposal for a Law on Public Registration, 3. Proposal for a law on enforcement and security, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Penalty, 5. Proposal for a law on the capital market, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act, 9. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the height of the interest rate, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Plans, 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in road transport, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Group of the National Codification Directors of NATO – Allied Committee 135 (AS/135) on the adoption of the NATO codification system, 14. A Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Police Co-operation in Combating Crime, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on mutual incentive and investment protection, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the EPS Guarantee Treaty electronic numbers between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty Corridor 10 Autoway (E-80) Phase 1 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Criminal Court on the execution of the International Criminal Court sentence, 19. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, 20. The summary list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency (as set out on the agenda of 5 May 2011). I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda and deliver it to the MPs. I am informing the MPs that we will move to work on the established agenda of a session whose agenda we have just adopted on Tuesday, April 5th at 10.00pm. Now, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform the MPs that today's afternoon session will be held through parliamentary issues at 1600 hours. By 19.00, the government's representatives will answer questions that MPs have to ask the members of the government. Thank you. I also ask the members of the Committee on European Integration to move to Hall III, to the Committee's session. I apologize to the President of the Committee of People's Parliament, Laszl Varga, for not being told this notice immediately. So, I'm asking the board members to move to the O.R. Thank you. [[After break – 16:00]] Dear Members of Parliament, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of her Excellency Mrs. Tarjo Karine, President of the Republic of Finland, as well as members of the delegation present at the Grand Hall gallery of the National Assembly. "Madame President Tarja Kaarina Halonen, very warm welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". The delegation includes His Excellency Mr. Kari Veijalainen, Ambassador of the Republic of Finland; Ms. Peivi Cairo Hela, Secretary-General, Chief of Staff of the President; Mr. Perti Torstilla, State Secretary; Mr. Jakob Sederman, MP, honorary member; Ms. Anmari Niros, foreign policy adviser to President of Finland; Ms. Peivi Luostarinen, Director General, and Miss Eila Nevalainen, Head of Press Service, as well as Her Excellency Mrs. Vera Mavrić, Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Finland. "Welcome to Serbia! "By continuing the work of the session, I would like to inform the MPs that the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, by letter dated 31 March 2011, in accordance with Article 205(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, informed that the following members of the Government were not able to attend today's session, at which the government was asked parliamentary questions: Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Finance Minister; Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior; Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister; Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister; Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy; Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government; Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning; Srdjan Sretkovic, Minister of Religion and Diaspora, and Sulejman Ugljanin, Minister without portfolio. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction, on the basis of Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated, pursuant to Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, pursuant to Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly shall warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority, pursuant to Article 204(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which he is appointed, pursuant to Article 206(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his reply, for a maximum period of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 216. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for asking questions so that a default order can be drawn up. I ask the members of the government to approach the session without excitement. We are not terrible in the control of the government, just as we look, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, that, in turn, the word will first be received by MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52975	We're moving on to the pay phone. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52976	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, a month ago I asked Prime Minister Cvetkovic a few questions, and I received the answer that a good number of them will be the subject of a dialogue that the Serbian government has long been prepared for. First of all, I am referring to the issue of diplomacy, which should be resolved through this dialogue. In the meantime, we have the next situation. Last Monday, Minister Markovic said the state would not recognise the Pristina University's diplomas because neither explicitly nor implicitly will recognise Kosovo's republic. He went further, so he declared additional pressure that children are still being sent to Pristina, although, according to the minister, Serbia has provided scholarships to study in Medvedja and Novi Sad. In addition to parents, the minister also accuses politicians Presevo and Bujanovac of failing to assist in affirming studies in Medvedja, so as to continue to accuse them of still being responsible for what he says is a provocation with the seal of the Republic of Kosovo because they have not raised their voice against it. My question is to the government. Is the government behind these statements and the charges of Minister Markovic? In fact, does these hard and aggressive statements mean prejudge the results of the newly-started dialogue and this way sends a message that even through the initial dialogue of Belgrade and Pristina, this very sensitive problem, as well as a number of other life problems of citizens in this area concerning freedom of movement and the achievement of fundamental human rights, will be solved? How else do you interpret the charges of preventing study in Novi Sad when it is known that only five or six scholarships are provided, which are likely to be used? How else do you interpret the accusations of not using very good conditions in Medvedja and a very high scholarship when it is known that at the groups of the Faculty of Law and Economics in Nis could study alongside the now existing 17 students in the first and second years and another twenty students from Presevo and Bujanovac, if there were normal conditions for study? But not that there are no minimum conditions, but the Medvedian Albanians have been provided with experimentally simultaneous translation... Mr. Halimi, it's been three minutes. )......................................................................................................... Unprofessional translators, so the question is why these manipulations with Bear and Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52977	Thank you. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52978	Thank you. Dear Madam President of Finland, the other members of the delegation, dear counterpart Halimi, are not there, so since part of your question concerns the area I am covering, I think it has a basis for me to say a few words about this issue. The position of the Republic of Serbia in connection with the University of Pristina diploma is well known. In 2003, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the view that all diplomas containing the UNMIK mark are recognised as valid. The problem did not exist for those or for the next few years. The problem arose in 2008, so-called by declaring the so-called The Republic of Kosovo and since then, of course, the problem exists. You know, we've talked about this more than once, and I have to say, I don't think your way of thinking and argument is standing. On the contrary, if you question my colleague Milan Markovic's position, I could ask the question in a different way – does silence on this issue mean prejudicing the final solution? If the topic is on the agenda in Brussels, then it is likely to try to find a solution, but it is undeniable that the issue is not educational but national and has a completely different meaning than it represents. If not, then why is there a 'Republic of Kosovo' in its contents? Then why didn't it stay to stand as it had been before, so that the students wouldn't be denied in any way? As far as the second question is concerned, I think you are in a certain way demeaning the efforts of both counterparts Milan Markovic and us in the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the outstretched department of the Faculty of Economics and Law in Nis. You know that last year we took a big step, this year we plan to open up a department in Bujanovac, and by the start of the new school year we'll do so. It is part of the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, thus creating objective opportunities for Albanian minority community members to gain higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52979	Mr. Riza Halimi has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52980	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, when it comes to Bear, I again claim it to be manipulation. Because Medvedja, with some capacity of possibly 20 Albanian students in one group and another, has no more capacity because there is no home for students there, it is 180km away from Presevo, and these facilities, open without consulting us in Medvedja, where eight students finish high school, not in Presevo and Bujanovac, where high school graduates are about 800 graduates, I think it's a kind of absurd. Next, if five students were to go to Novi Sad with these scholarships, and let these 30-40 students go to Novi Sad, and what are they to do every year with 400 of those young people who enroll in the schools of Pristina, Tirana, Tetova? Because it is not only a diplomat of Pristina, which is not recognised for these political reasons that you state, but also for Albania's diplomas. This is the problem, to close the perspective of young people finishing college on their spending, not with the help of the state. They're finishing their studies, and I can't get to work with that. Despite the catastrophic economic situation, with an unemployment rate of over 70%, they have additional problems, administrative ones, because their diplomas are not recognised. I spoke several times, but why should I speak to the government in Kosovo? I am talking to the government elected by this parliament, that it is dealing with the life problems of its citizens. At least it was through dialogue with Pristina, but it is the government's problem. I really insist that this problem be taken far more seriously and complexly, because it cannot be solved only through Bear, nor by opening a college in Bujanovac next year, because not all Albanians will study only economy and law. They want to study at other universities, and that's so far not allowed by this state. That's why I'm saying it's a big problem. It is about the future of youth in the area, they are closing their perspective and the government needs to find a solution to this problem. Let there be some political background in all this, but we need to deal with this life problem more seriously. There is, in my opinion, the essence of this whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52981	Here you are, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52982	Thank you. Mr. Halimi, I think you're a little too strong in your grades after all. Yes, the government is obliged to solve all the problems of its citizens, all the problems of its citizens, but the question of the election of the university is an autonomous matter of every young man and everyone has decided independently what they will and where they will study and, in contrast, objectively, bear the consequences of their choice. I'm saying this because every year when the time of the school year is approaching, or enrolling in higher education institutions, I publicly invite young people and their parents to think about not enrolling in colleges that are not accredited, so that they don't put themselves in a position to finish college and get a degree that can't be used tomorrow. I am also saying this because the choice of young people to go to Pristina was the choice that brought with it the problem of a diploma that has in its contents the 'Republic of Kosovo', with all the consequences it carries. Of course, the Republic of Serbia is taking all the steps to resolve this issue, but I said, the issue is not educational, but it has far broader and political and state importance, and it should be understood as well. As far as the second aspect of your question is concerned, as clearly as the Republic of Serbia is making efforts and taking concrete steps to create conditions for education for Albanian minority communities in higher education institutions, so much, it is realistic, it cannot open a special department or college in any place where they live. That's what you should be aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52983	Mr. Halimi, you can plead to the Minister's response for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52984	I just wanted, if it was accreditation, both universities in Pristina and Tirana and in Tetovo were accredited, as far as the Bologna Process is concerned. So it's still a political problem, not accreditation. Then why is the answer avoided, besides this basic one, and the lack of will to nostrify the diplomas of the universities of Albania and Macedonia in this country? There are problems longer than this problem with Pristina, there we have that the diplomas of individual universities completed in Tirana for five or six years absolutely cannot be nostified with us. We've been looking for solutions all along, but there's no will. We resolved this in 2003, as in 2002 the government of Mr Djindjic solved an even more difficult problem. Then the eleven-year problem of non-recognition of diplomas from that time was solved and there was then strength and courage to resolve it. I absolutely don't think there's a political will to solve this problem yet. And that's the problem with our citizens that we haven't provided for the possibility of schooling because of the political situation, because of the different tensions they couldn't school at the universities of Nis, Belgrade and Novi Sad. We know what time is and what we've been through. To simply say that this is a political problem and that Pristina needs to solve it, I think it is irresponsible. It is then that there is no concern for the fundamental, elemental rights of the citizens of this country. So I say - when will the problem of not only higher education be solved, but also economic development? Because there's a catastrophic situation. The unemployment rate is 70%. Presevo is seven times less developed than the average in Serbia. It's official data from the Bureau of Statistics. When, and what you say... (President: Time. Thank you. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Markovic here today, because I'm asking a question... (President: Will you bring the end, please? () What will we look for in the Coordination Body if we do not deal with basic life problems?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52985	Mr. Halimi, finish up. Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, respected representatives of the government, the NS parliamentary group asked the government a question precisely a month ago about the collection of electricity that should practically come into force tomorrow. That, the Serbian citizens already know, is an increase of 15%. Last month, I asked how justified is the increase in electricity prices for the entire territory of Serbia. I got some answer which, in some form, explains that with some payments up to 15 in the month, there are some reliefs, etc., that there are certain consumers who will be subsidized (referring to those 350 kilowatts) and that is one introduction to one question, but I did not get an answer to another question, which I asked a month ago. The issue was addressed directly to the then minister, still in that government, Mr. Skundric – that citizens in the territory of the Kingdom municipality should be freed of this 15% increase in electricity price. Since there are no resolute ministers who can answer me, I would ask Mr Bozidar Djelic a direct question – is there a question in the government regarding an increase in the price of electricity related to the Kingdom and is there an opportunity to support the "New Serbia" initiative that for citizens of the territory of the municipality the Royal Price will not be increased in 2011? I'll tell you directly, I've talked to Minister Mrkonjic and Mr Skundric about it. I am very sorry that the President of the National Assembly, of course according to the Rules of Procedure, could not allow Mr. Skundric, who wanted to plead, but had no right last month (Nothing on your soul). ), but I would like to, or I certainly know that Mr. Markovic will support this, which is the co-ordinator of the government for the municipality of Kraljevo. You all know what happened in the King, that there was a devastating earthquake, that many households were damaged. Some damages are currently being resolved, but there are many companies, many private entrepreneurs, many public institutions that are badly damaged, and this has not yet been resolved, and certainly one such initiative would welcome the citizens of the Kings. I must say this time that the New Serbia initiative is that students who are not on the budget are stripped of one part of the enrolment and I thank Minister Obradovic who responded to the request of New Serbia and those at the state colleges have been released 50%.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52987	The word is made by Vice President Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52988	Your Honor, I can't give you an answer to this question right now. We'll see if that question has passed in the government. Not that I remember. But what I can say is that from the moment of the earthquake not only the government, but all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have made one great effort to make these woes as bearable as possible for the citizens of the Kings. Only for the construction of private housing units has already provided two and a half billion dinars. The damage that has been assessed is somewhat greater and we have received from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe a very quick decision that one loan, which was intended for another purpose, will be directed towards the King and I must say that the great activity and the mayor of the King and the rest of our country will lead to that, I am confident, that repairing the damage in the King will be an example for some, don't God, future such problems. As far as electricity is concerned, it is well known that the government has postponed the EPS proposal. The increase in electricity prices will not work before the end of this heating season and more than 1.5 million households will not have an increase in electricity prices. It's those citizens who spend less than 350 kilowatts, who have average consumption. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has reconciled two objectives at this time – to provide additional resources for the EPS to be able to perform capital refurbishment facilities in order to ensure further supply of electricity in our country (i.e. here, for 11 years, our country has not had a single day of restrictions on electricity, and it is necessary to provide certain resources), while recognising the need to respect this social moment of crisis and that our citizens who have less electricity consumption are spared any increase in that price.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52989	Mr. Spasojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52990	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question was not at all who did what he did when it came to the restoration of the Kings. That's not a question. What's the role, that's not the question. We can praise perhaps only Mr. Markovic, who is really trying in the King, but if we start counting, is that the mayor, then I will tell you that New Serbia has made some efforts and has invested in making certain families houses. And, of course, the Serbian Progressive Party. So that's not a question. My question is specifically about the 15% increase for the citizens of the Kings. They all have damage, and they won't be able to collect that damage, and this way the state can indirectly help. Companies are also damaged. In particular, 15% for a company in the King that spends millions of dinars, 150,000 dinars of rising electricity prices means that maybe two or three people will be out of work. Mr. Djelic, come to the King. It's all stopped. Maybe only two or three firms do business somehow. People are in debt, mortgages. It's a very difficult situation. They don't do companies, people get fired, shops are closed, there's a lot of undisclosed business spaces. I appeal to the government to make an effort, and there is a lot of justification, there is no one in the hall who will not support it, and I say responsibly – that Mr Skundric has been given the right to speak to Parliament, but unfortunately he could not by the Rules of Procedure, I am sure and I saw by his reaction, and Mr Mrkonjic later told me that he would accept it. I'm asking you if the government took this into consideration, because tomorrow is the day the new price list comes into force. I beg you for the citizens of the Kings, for a very difficult situation. This is not to be sought indefinitely, but in 2011 we count on this to be resolved when it comes to the King, and in this way you will help the citizens and the economy of the Kings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52991	Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52992	To a specific question we will give a concrete answer, we will ask the RES and EPS to consider your proposal, but I would just like to say that it is not true that nothing has been invested in the economy. I was talking about rebuilding, and I think this restoration is a model, both systemically and in some human sense, the efforts of all, and you're right, because it's not just one minister and government, it's our entire community. Magnochrom, for example, who unfortunately had no luck in privatisation, received 55m dinars of subsidies in December. Each month, these subsidies are 28 million dinars, but what is more important is that 1.4m euros will be invested in production equipment, which has recently been restarted. It's probably the best way to respond to this plight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52993	Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52994	Mr. Vice President, I really can't figure out if you've been completely focused on what I said since the start of my discussion. I even said that Mr. Milan Markovic is working very hard in the King and it is not disputed that the state is making efforts. That's not at all controversial. Here is a concrete question, as far as I understand you, and I would ask you to listen to me because, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will no longer have the right to answer any of your questions – will this be the point of the agenda for me here as MPs, or the New Serbia MP, who gives this initiative? That's something concrete, because I asked this question a month ago and I didn't get an answer. Tomorrow a new price list comes into effect. You certainly have the mechanisms to stop that increase concerning the King from 1 April. I'd really like to ask you, I think it's a human thing. It's nothing personal, it's not politics, it's something to meet a municipality, a city of the King who suffered a devastating earthquake. And because of earthquakes and other things, the situation is extremely difficult, because it doesn't all work the way it should in a beautiful city like the King. It's a difficult situation, make an effort, and please, if you can, answer me if this will be the point of the agenda at the next cabinet session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52995	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52996	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since the Prime Minister is justly absent, as far as we know and wish him to recover as soon as possible, I will ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic. What I am interested in is about certainly the most significant foreign policy event in the past few months, which is the dialogue our authorities have had with representatives of the Russian government. During that visit, we have been having some kind of discussion here in Parliament, representatives of the government of our talks, but what is surprising to us is that the government did not ask some questions that we felt had to ask ourselves, which we opened during the discussion here in the Assembly, in which I discussed with Prime Minister Putin about Russia's relationship to Serbia's NATO membership and the character of the energy agreement that we signed with them. The first question for you, Mr. Djelic, is – when does the government think they are discussing these topics with the Russian government president, since he comes to Serbia once in ten years? I'll tell you why it's especially important to you. You're the Deputy Prime Minister, you're in the business of European integration. No Eastern European country that has become an EU member has become that it has not previously become a NATO member. We can spend days, weeks, months in an argument that opposes it or something, but it's a fact that we can like or we don't have to like. That is why we thought it very important that after 20 years lost, after too many wasted lives, we ask the question, since it is obviously from the answer that we have heard here in Parliament, that Russia is actually insisting on Serbia's path to the EU that condemns Serbia in advance for its failure to achieve that goal. Because what is our exclusive right to become part of a united Europe in a different procedure than everyone else, although no one will formally say that this procedure is a condition for EU membership? Another very important question is a question of reason for such an attitude. We don't think the argument we've heard is an argument that can't be changed. Serbia's NATO membership is not a threat to Russia. It is not Serbia's expansion to the Russian Federation, it is the implementation of Serbia's isolation that is surrounded by NATO member states. This country has paid too much in history to be able to tell her that it will just agree to be a parking lot for any rocket that will threaten someone from here. That's not true. Russia remains on two time zones from us, and we are still friends like we were during history. The Energy Agreement is also a very important issue. Why are we the only country with so franticly different... ? (President: Time. I'll leave for another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52997	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52998	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I think Mr. Putin's visit made it possible to expand and deepen our dialogue. I think it's a good thing you had the opportunity to speak directly to the Russian prime minister. As it may have been for some surprise when recently the Russian president in this house made it very clear that Serbia's future in the EU is in no way something to worry about the Russian Federation, the prime minister, Mr Putin, reiterated here and at other meetings he had. Yes, most countries, i.e. All the countries that joined the EU entered NATO, but their experience was different during the Cold War. On the other hand, none of these countries were bombed by the alliance. Experience is different. On the other hand, Serbia has joined and is taking full advantage of the Partnership for Peace. Serbia is deepening these relations in a way that respects the Assembly's resolution, which has led to military neutrality. And, of course, our country will continue to have relations in this framework and with NATO as an important factor in Europe and the world. It is very interesting that recently the Russian Federation itself has opened an important initiative in the domain of security, urging them to overcome divisions and to ask who is now the enemy of anyone today in Europe, is it not time to find some solution that will show Europe's unity and in this very important domain of security. The Russian Federation's initiative has already found an answer, as a number of EU leaders have started talks. I think it is very important for our country to follow this dialogue, because I believe it will be fruitful, effective and positive for our country. You mentioned discussions that were here in Belgrade, so I just want to remind the respected MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, as far as the question of whether NATO is a precondition for Serbia to join the EU, the answer is very clear – no. That's what Mr. Biden told us in May 2009 and US Vice President Biden here in Belgrade, and that's what he said during President Tadic's meeting with President Sarkozy last May. So joining NATO is not a prerequisite for our country's entry into the EU, and the issue of Europe's security is something that is being debated and where, I am deeply convinced, there will be additional positive developments that will benefit our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u52999	Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53000	You didn't convince me, Mr. Djelic. You use these arguments, you try to defend the position of government somehow, but you and I both know it's an unsustainable thesis and we have the same problem that we had the day Prime Minister Putin was here. He is the president of a country that has its own goal and knows its own interests, and has come to a country that wanders when it talks about its goal and does not know how to achieve it. You went to school in France. Ten years after the bloody war with the Germans, the French made Europe together. How long will the argument be bombing here in 1999? Not in spite of that, but that's exactly why we need to move in the direction that will connect us to that world. It is true that a new security concept is being sought for Europe. This does not exclude Serbia's NATO membership. Or should we be as different on this matter as in any other matter? I think we need to be open. There's no reason to hide this truth from our society. What is building Serbia's exclusive right to become an EU member without being a NATO member before? Is there a formal condition somewhere? It doesn't exist. But how many years do we have to go to this Europe? Can we agree that nowhere in the papers does it say that defining the response to Kosovo's status is a condition for EU membership? It doesn't say. And did the Enlargement Commissioner tell us that he cannot imagine Serbia entering Europe with that open question? Don't call for a 2007 resolution that speaks of NATO in one sentence, and we've already rejected everything else as a policy. Open here, we need to open up a discussion about it and say that this is not the result of our ambition to send our children into some wars, but of our need to connect to the part of the world we belong to. The second question is the energy agreement. We are the only country, Mr. Djelic, which is a signator of an energy agreement with minority law, and we are the first country to sign an energy agreement and we are the only country to pay for the energy agreement by directly contracting practically to the Russian state to do what it cannot do in Russia through its company in Serbia. I'm referring specifically to the fact that Gazprom here pays 3% ore rent, Russia has to pay 70%. What are the effects of that? The effects of this are 360 million gross profits in the first year of Gazprom's business in Serbia, 150 nets, and when the company was ours, it dealt with losses. Can we ask a simple question – does Serbia have the right to correct the energy agreement, not with the ambition to break co-operation with Russia, but to establish those relations that all other countries have? The argument that Berlusconi will call the Slovenian prime minister every morning to ask him how it depends on gas passing through Slovenia is an unsustainable argument. Because at the end of that series is only Moscow and no one else. We would like something else -- market principles and, as Russia defends its interests, Serbian institutions that advocate Serbian interests. Equal partnership – that's what we need. We are the only country that is a minority partner in this project and we are the only non-NATO country. All other members are members of both organisations and have a much better status than we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53001	Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53002	Mr. Jovanovic, it is your right to defend those views. It is not true, however, that NATO and EU entry is either due-consequent or in some sequence. Austria is an EU member, is not a NATO member and is a member of this consortium that builds a pipeline. So it is not true that all the countries that are this programme are members of both NATO and the EU. Norway is not an EU member and is a NATO member. This shows that these are decisions that countries need to make in accordance with their own policies, and that there is no, either by the EU or by NATO, any connection, formal or informal, between the two issues. I think it is more important from rumors than the vice president of the largest country that is a member of the alliance, Mr Biden, who unequivocally said that America does not expect Serbia to join NATO to join the EU. It was also confirmed by the president of one of the two largest EU member states, which recently returned to NATO's command, and we see that things are not easy either, we see about these developments in Libya, but he also said that, as far as France is concerned, it does not expect Serbia to join NATO to join the EU. As far as the energy deal is concerned, we probably won't be satisfied with the fact that a loss-making company is going to make a profit. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that Serbia is a shareholder or co-owner of the NIS at 49%, so it is in our country's interest that the results are as good as possible, because this also means that the actions that the Republic of Serbia has and manages, and tomorrow we expect dividends, will be there. So, as far as NIS is concerned, it's not something that's suddenly packed and handed over as a gift to a partner forever, but we're active shareholders at 49% and, of course, it's of interest to the Republic of Serbia to exploit certain means, opportunities and development that this company will propose in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53003	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53004	I was talking about the countries of Eastern Europe that entered the EU from 1990 to today. We can use Austria as an excuse, but you and I both know it can't be an argument in a serious discussion. True, no one puts such a condition before us, but no one helps us realize the work that we are talking about in the way that other countries are being helped. I'll tell you exactly what I mean. I mean the situation where Croatia threatened the blockade because it was unable to arrest Gotovina, but Croatia had partners in Europe that, however, enabled it to continue European integration uninterrupted. Where are our partners today? If we're talking about NIS, NIS was sold for 400 million, and in the first year, it had a gross profit of 360. Nor do you know what you will do when you go to Brussels and they ask you, what kind of excise policy is this? So then they're retraining us, even though in advance, when we adopt it, we know it's wrong. What we want is a clean bill policy. The president of the Russian government knows what he wants. We get the answer here that no key questions have been discussed. Let's talk and say we don't want to go to NATO, make that decision as a society, know why we decided and take risks for such a decision. None of us ever wore a hen and marched with a rifle on the street. We all grew up in this town like normal people. So NATO is not a question of our ambition to fight somewhere around the world, but of our integration into the continent to which we belong. It's also an economic category. NATO is bringing security into this chronically unstable country. That's what we need. All around us are there – both Macedonians, and Montenegrins, and Bosnia is there, Croats, Hungarians, Bulgarians, Romanians... All of them. Well, if we're so different and smarter than them, let's see why that is and put an end to that question. And next time, let's say, we agreed on this, not to call on one sentence from the 2007 resolution, all of which we all raised our hands. In particular, I don't think we have the right to remain silent in front of the fact that we are wrong, as we were knowingly wrong a few years ago when we insisted formally on a policy that we knew in advance was condemned to failure. The Energy Agreement is a very serious issue. (President: Two minutes. We ask the government's willingness to discuss the correction of the anomaly resulting from the country's political impotence, which has sacrificed economic interests in order to gain the political support it needs in a policy that has failed in the meantime, I mean Kosovo politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53005	The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53006	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, a tender for the sale of Telecom was launched at the time of Mr. Cvetkovic's government. This time, it's not about some loser who's worth selling as fast as possible so someone can invest in it and build a good company. On the contrary, it is a highly profitable firm that has, in the last year, appeared to me, earned a 150m-euro profit, a clean profit, not counting investment. A minimum, poor price of 1.4 billion euros is required. It should be borne in mind that the 1.4 billion euros with this profit level is nine years' worth, and since it is a telecommunications area, it is certainly much faster, bearing in mind that it is the same, to say by a related firm, in its own time the "Mobtel" has been sold by 1.5 billion euros, although it is undoubtedly at least three times the weaker firm than Telecom, according to all indicators. You don't need any major economic analysis to understand that. A firm appeared in the tender and offered, sorry, an offensive 950m euros. So two-thirds of the minimum price. The Prime Minister declares in the first wave that this means that the tender has failed, but after a day or two, since someone probably explained something to him, a decision has been made to continue the talks (I don't know what kind) with the only bidder, so the talks by the system – give us at least something, even a million more, to sell to Telecom faster and better. Instead of declaring the tender a failure if this isn't already, and obviously it's not the time to sell, especially when all European sparrows know that we're bankrupt and that we need to sell Telecom to finish some of our jobs (I don't know how many urgent and good, but that's another thing now) and apparently people have estimated that at this point they can buy Telecom (if it passes) for some small money, the government enters a bargain with a buyer who's given a dirty price. (President: three minutes. My question would be addressed to the Prime Minister, but since he is not there for objective reasons, it is then addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister. The minister in charge's only been in charge for a few weeks, and I wouldn't ask him now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53007	The word has Božidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53008	Mr. Shami, the conditions of a good privatisation are known in advance and do not change during sale. That's why I'm here to say that today is about the possibility that an Austrian bidder will improve his offer and, if he meets the minimum conditions that are foreseen, he will eventually become the owner. But the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a conclusion ordering all interested partners that 51% of the capital of Telekom Srbija will not be sold below 1.4 billion and that condition will not change. So it will be if the conditions are met, and if they are not met, that privatisation will be declared void. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53009	National MP Zoran Shami, three minutes to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53010	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. He spoke for 43 seconds, probably aware of the fact that he wouldn't have had 43 hours to justify this. It's about something else, Mr. Djelic. First, it's about a billion and 400 million, which was a condition, but, I'm sorry, the condition that Mr. Cvetkovic's government has prescribed and that is pointless. I apologize for the expression, but this minimum price is pointless given the profit level Telecom makes. That's one thing. Secondly, when someone slaps you, and this country gets a slap by offering two-thirds of the minimum price... That's rude. I'm sorry, in the business world, it's considered rude. And the government continues to enter into some settlements with them. Third, it opens up a whole series of questions. Whoever offered it is already the owner, if I'm not mistaken, of a network. By buying Telecom, you would practically hold 75% of traffic in this area (60% of traffic has Telecom and 15% of what it already has). How are we going to justify this in front of Europe? We are always full of the mouth of Europe, and we are making conditions for a monopoly in such an important area. And it's not a small monopoly, it's a very big monopoly. Therefore, Mr. Djelic, any responsible government would be happy that it has not received an offer of billions and 400 million, because Telecom is certainly worth much more. I'm not saying this for patriotic reasons or for loving Telecom, but for being objective. You're an economist, and I'm just a poor mathematician, but if you're nine years from now using it, with the profit level that's in place today, and it's definitely going to be bigger (it's definitely going to grow because that's the kind of area), you can buy the whole company, there's no price for it. You know, abroad when you buy an apartment, even a small one, the value of the apartment is about ten years' rent. You know that very well, better than I do. So I ask the question – why does the government do it? Why does he keep embarrassing us, and why does he keep selling out what little quality stuff we still have to sell? I've always represented private property compared to state property, but, excuse me, what's going on with Telecom, and it's not just now, but back in the year and the change of days, how long the whole story lasts, it sure as hell won't end well. By country anyway, but trust me, neither are those who are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53011	The word has Božidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53012	Mr. Shami, I have no doubt that you are a kind of mathematician. But the numbers are numbers. You say it's absurd for the state to set a price for something, but the DSS has backed a price of 400m euros for 51% of NIS. That's something you supported. So if the principle of one company is acceptable, why is it not acceptable for another company? One more thing. Since the modern economy is largely mathematical, the explanation given by other potential bidders, and we know that because they bought the documentation, is precisely that this minimum price of 1.4 billion euros for 51% of capital is also serious for them at this point too high a price. And no one will be surprised, among those who were potential buyers but have not made that offer, if this bidder, and we will only see that in the days to come, because there are no secret negotiations but is only waiting to see if this potential bidder will improve this offer, so that it meets the minimum that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has drawn. There are no other conditions. The monopoly issue or the monopoly missing. Today "Telecom Serbia" has almost 100% participation in the fixed telephony market, but one of the reasons why it started to privatise is that this monopoly has been abolished and we already have some other companies offering these services. The most important thing is the fact that there is dynamics on the market. So, as far as the monopoly issue is concerned, it's a question for an independent body, which is a constitutional category and whose advice has been set up by this house, and it will be on it to determine this issue, but we haven't reached that point yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53013	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53014	I didn't discuss the price of NIS, number one. Under two, the fact is that the new owner of NIS has significantly increased profits, and it is clear why. But now we're talking about Telecom. I still claim that the price for a billion and 400 million is low. Consider the sale of a billion and 500 thousand in this same market, and it must be a threefold weaker company than Telecom. It's possible that the whole story is happening in some weather, when some serious companies don't want to go shopping, but it's also possible that serious companies have estimated that this government cares terribly about selling Telecom and that they're simply waiting for the price to fall. Every wise and serious man would at this point stop the whole story and wait (if one day it must be sold to Telecom, although I am still not convinced) for a moment, more favourable for us and for the state to sell it. Now, if you want to sell it post-poo, that's another thing. After all, the future will soon show what will happen next. I'm only sorry that this future doesn't guarantee that our state interests will be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53015	The People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53016	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, besides the incompetent government, are obviously the biggest problem of the state of Serbia and its citizens. All those involved in the measure of corruption in a country, whether abroad or abroad, have found that in particular in the last three years, the degree of corruption in the state of Serbia has been dramatically increased and that our institutions in a country of one of the most corrupt in the world, in Europe, are absolutely certain. We saw a police action yesterday, where seven people were arrested because the state was allegedly damaged for about two million euros. Interestingly, it has been announced that one of the arrested from G17 plus, one that is the assistant minister who is from the SPS, but is not said whether he is from the SPS or not. It's interesting that the media has only apostrophe, and for these five, they're silent. I guess we'll find out who it's all about. I wanted to ask Mr. Dacic today, but he's gone, so my question will be addressed to the government, and since there is Minister Malovic, who has shown he has a great desire to fight corruption, at least declaratively, but we don't see any results, I will refer this question to her today and hope to some answers. Namely, the Austrian "Pore", i.e. The consortium, which received the company in a tender for the construction of the bridge through Ade, hit a business worth 118,640,000 euros along with what it says in the tender, with a contract covering any unexpected and subsequent works of 5% increase. We can see today in all the media that a 400m-euro figure is being talked about, specifically that the cost of building the bridge has reached as much as 404.900,000 euros so far. It is true that it is a city government tender, but I am interested in whether the state will deal with this issue and whether the police and all competent institutions will react and check what is happening to the construction of this bridge and why has the cost of building the bridge increased so much compared to what was planned and has the law been violated in that case?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53017	Minister Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53018	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would not agree with the statement that the government of the Republic of Serbia's declared position to fight corruption is. This government has created five goals, one is the fight against crime, organised crime and corruption, and by our work so far we have shown that we are seeking to achieve that goal. I will only remind you that among the first laws proposed by this government and adopted by this respected home are certainly the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, whose full application we can see today, and then the law on the confiscation of property stemmed from the criminal act, where the previous confiscation of property is more than 300m euros. I don't think our results are declarative, they're also concrete, and right through these facts that I've cited they can look back on themselves. Of course, we are also preparing the steps that we will take in the next period, and I would like to point out this is not because of European integration, but because of the fundamental, qualitative changes and improvements in the lives of Serbian citizens, which, of course, also coincide with European integration. In the next period, we will approach the development and innovation of an action plan that should lead to better coordination between state authorities in curbing corruption. As far as the specific case you asked me about, I simply cannot give you an answer as a minister of justice because I am not involved in detecting criminal activities within the country. My role is to ensure the smooth work of the court and the prosecution, which I will certainly do in my work, but since you have stated that these days there has been one decisive action by the state authorities in curbing corruption, this shows that there are no protected personalities in this country and so there will be a future. Anyone who has committed a crime and for whom there is evidence will be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53019	The word has been made by MP Dragan Shormaz, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53020	Perhaps Mr. Gilas will still be prosecuted, or at least his associates, related to the construction of this bridge. I'll give you an example, and you can see that on a flyer that worked on SNS. The highest bridge in Europe is located in France, and when the bridge was built, it cost 160m euros. It is two and a half kilometers long, 343 metres high, has seven sawmills and has a total price of 400m euros. A contract with the Slovenian company SCT was terminated here, which was supposed to work only in the driveways. The bridge has cost 405m euros so far, and was scheduled, I repeat, below 120m euros. And you're telling me now that you've seized 300m euros in the fight against organised crime and corruption. You know what, first of all, the question is whether it's going to stay, because the trial isn't over, whether someone's going to be convicted or not. That's in advance... And second of all, you're talking about cases of organized crime again. I didn't ask you about fighting organised crime, I asked you about fighting corruption. It is known who can do and who can participate in it, except those who are in power. And this case, you said no one would be protected, it's 2006. I'm asking you what's going on right now. What happened yesterday was the arrest, which was the 2006 act, and yesterday was the arrests. Should we wait 2015 for someone to at least be checked for what's going on around the bridge on Ada? During that time, while the bridge in Belgrade is built in such a way that the price is obviously more than double, 40% is more expensive life in the city than it was two years ago, when the construction began. Warming is 36% more expensive, parking is 70% more expensive, 20% more expensive city transport, 40% more expensive hot water, 17% more expensive kindergartens and 45% increased number of people's cuisine users in Belgrade in just a year. Are these the results of those five goals you're talking about? I'm telling you -- there are no concrete results, because all the measurements show all the statistics that Serbia is more corrupt than in 2008. So you can have goals, set up agencies, but you don't have results, the result doesn't exist. I can believe you can't tell if it will be, but I guess you can try your authority to check the issue of building that bridge, to send UBPOK or someone to check the business, why this bridge is so much more expensive than the contract intended to cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53021	The word has Ministerial Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53022	Through this current discussion of yours, I see confirmation of the government's determination to fight organised crime or corruption decisively, since I see you separating these two phenomena. You're telling yourself that this object was created in 2006. I'm sorry he wasn't processed in 2006, 2007 or 2008, but here we now decided, when we came to the evidence, that this process was being processed. Also, I am sorry as a citizen of Serbia, not as a minister of justice, for having seized property worth 300m euros. If these items had been dealt with in time, we certainly wouldn't have had the largest drug group in the Balkans, which, unfortunately, was in our neighbourhood and has been doing these activities unhindered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53023	National MP Dragan Shormaz, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53024	If you're talking about this drug group, you're wrong about it, because, according to your data, it was only created in 2008, so since you're the government, and then they started buying businesses, since September 2008. I haven't said for a moment that this process has been done since 2006, but that the work was obviously done in 2006, and why it's only now that there's been an arrest, it's really not my job as a MP, I know. You're executive power, you have to do it. It's mine to ask you questions, it's yours to answer, not yours to ask me what happened in 2006. By the way, I asked the question, if we're already talking about bridges, as early as November last year to the competent Minister Mrkonjic, and I am informing you that I have not received an answer regarding the construction of the Žeželjev Bridge. I asked what would happen to that tender, when the contract would be signed, what would be the cost of building the bridge. I didn't get the answer. In the meantime, I learned that a contract was signed with a second-placer in the tender, that they had a job of five million more expensive than it was first-placed -- it was one Spanish firm, though others were complaining about the tender -- and now they're chasing Serbia, the region, and they're looking for who's going to do the work on the Želje Bridge for them, and they've got a hit job. So they're not bringing workers from Spain, they're not bringing machines from Spain to build a bridge, but now they're going after Serbia, not only Serbia, but also the region, and they're looking for who's going to build that bridge for them. So, tenders are obviously a problem, which is what the EU told you, since it also asked you 600 more questions about the sale of Telecom. Of course, that's what we'll do in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53025	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people is Zeljko Brestovici.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53026	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when will the great injustice be corrected against the rare agricultural producers of helde and helda flour on the territory of the Raška region, and above all on the territory of the municipalities: Nova Varoš, Sjenica and Prepolje? The injustice against farmers of the Raska area was committed by ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all by the ministers of agriculture and finance, economics and economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, the people of the Raška area have been fighting for years to exercise their constitutional right and become equal before the law and the Constitution. In 2005, then, Finance Minister Dinkic adopted a Regulation on the determination of goods and services whose turnover is taxed at a special VAT rate, which reduced the rate of tax applicable to the turnover of all agricultural products, and above all from 18% to 8% of all flour, but remained 18% compared to halide flour. This rule, as I said, brought in the said minister. For those in the government who don't know what a helde is like as a grain, I want to explain to them and others who watch this program, especially to the producers of helda from the territory of the Raška area. So, the word is a rare cereal, which is mostly successful in the Raška region, at an altitude of about 1,000 metres. This area of the Raška area is climate-friendly for sowing and production of this rare, and very healthy cereals, which contain a large number of specific nutrients, and are even used as a cure. This grain is used exclusively as healthy food to feed our citizens. I would like to show, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, that Mr. Petrovic is present (Held a pack of flour in his hand. ) – this is a bag of flour from Nova Varosha. The largest producer of the heljde is Ekoslav Puric from the village of Radijevići, below Zlatar. This flour is the only one taxed at 18%. What's this all about, government gentlemen? This hardworking educated man stayed in the country with his family, as a hardworking and respected farmer, to do the helda production. However, tax authorities forced him to sell cows and calves to the state to pay taxes and taxes to about a million dinars. How long do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, that's how you treat farmers?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53027	National MP (you have 10 seconds left), please have measures to ask parliamentary questions. What you just did... Imagine every MP taking the product of someone who produces something in Serbia and going to advertise on the benches. Really, please, ask the MP's question, Minister. Maybe there's another manufacturer of that, whatever you have. I don't have any members of the Rules of Procedure to rely on, but that's probably a question of good taste and common sense. Please remove the product first and ask the Minister which one you want. Sign up, you have ten more seconds, and please remove the product that you advertise one of the manufacturers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53028	Minister, will you put this rulebook, which the minister has brought, outside the legal force, because it violates fundamental human rights and places the other farmers in an unequal position, and there are a large number. I can't list them, Madam Vice President, it would be a big list. Excuse me for mentioning only one man. It's a man who, first of all, is qualified by agronomics, has been educated, has returned to the country and wants to deal with this product...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53029	National MP, three minutes, thank you. I don't think we understand each other, obviously, or you don't understand what you've done. You, as a MP, advertise the production of one manufacturer. I don't mind the production or the manufacturer, on the contrary, if more and more were to be done... But please imagine that your rights involve 249 more MPs. For the second time, I ask you to remove the product from the bench, so that you do not violate the reputation of the National Assembly. Minister Dusan Petrovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53030	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I agree with Mr Jojic that this is an extremely important culture. At the moment, the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing a whole series of measures to be contained in Serbia's agro-economic policies this year. Among other things, although there is no large production of helde, we are also dealing with ways to help grow this culture in the best possible way – you are absolutely right about the health properties of helde and helde products – and we will do so through one whole diapazon of the incentive of organic food production. It's neither easy nor simple and it's not possible to do it in a short time. I mean organic food in general. This food achieves a very high price, significantly higher than that of plant production, which is achieved by applying classical agrotechnics, which implies that everything modern agrotechnics implies is used. First of all, I mean plant protection and artificial fertilizer. Unfortunately, it is not in my competence to consider the issue of regulations that determine the VAT rate – it is, of course, within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance – but I am sure that we will have, as I said, a comprehensive set of measures and that we will very quickly go public with it, so I think we will have good conditions, among other things, and for the cultivation of this culture in the year ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53031	National MP Petar Jojic, the other three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53032	Mr. Minister, this is a great encouragement for the people of the Raška area, that you, as the new minister, will take appropriate steps to improve the position of farmers working on the production of helium in the Raška area. Since you are the Minister of Agriculture, there is logic, and there is room for that question, unless it falls within your jurisdiction, but within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, with a colleague of the finance minister, to find opportunities to put this rule outside the legal force. The same minister also passed a rule by which a bankruptcy manager needs to take 580,000 euros as a reward in one enterprise. These sublegal acts have, above all, corrupt characteristics. That's why I'm asking that at least these sublegal acts pay more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53033	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53034	I'll just take a minute. As I said, Mr. Jojic, among other things, tax policy will be considered as a whole, when it comes to the production of all kinds of cereals, in general, plant production and livestock production. We will have a comprehensive decision very soon and I would not waste Parliament's time right now. This is also very important for more than two million people in Serbia, because they are engaged in agricultural production. Of course, it is important for all citizens of Serbia, because how we organise agricultural production depends on the supply of food products, especially the most important provisions of life, so that we will deal with our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and, of course, with the Prime Minister as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53035	National MP Petar Jojic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53036	I ask a question about agriculture, and since the minister of justice mentioned this area when it comes to corruption and crime, Madam Ministers – when it will start to light up, discover and arrest those who have committed huge crimes in terms of issuing state agricultural land... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53037	People's MP, the rules of asking questions mean you've been using for two minutes to comment on the answer you received from the minister to whom you asked the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53038	I'm pleased with the minister's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53039	Then don't use two minutes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Zeljko Brestovsky, after whom the MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53040	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, we all know that agricultural activity is one of the most important activities in the area of economy. The fact is that in last year, agricultural production was at a significant level, but the technological process took place in difficult hydrological conditions. So a lot of rainfall, a lot of problems when agricultural production comes from the aspect of the agricultural producer. We know that prices at that time, just over a year ago, were disastrously low, that the wheat at harvest time was only eight to ten dinars, corn, too, we know that the problem with buying sugar tail also existed, but when we finished the business year, agriculture made one significant financial effect for the whole country and the system. The largest surplus has achieved agricultural production, which is commendable. All of this would not have been the case if the state had not properly involved itself in the problem of protecting agricultural production and its subsidies, regressions and aid to small-scale farmers in an adequate way to improve agricultural production. My particular question is – how in this year to ensure an even better success when it comes to agricultural production and how to meet all needs? These days, it's a good time, and our warriors are on their way to the fields. We had a problem with the supply of milk, oil and many other products in the previous period. How do we replace this lack of funds to our agricultural producers and help them increase the production and reduction of this market shortage? What are we gonna do? The minister made an unpopular but extorted decision on the first day of work, which is a ban on exports of wheat and flour from Serbia. I think it's an extorted decision. Are we going to have a problem with our processors, i.e. The dairy industry, when it comes to the market in the environment and the loss of our positions in that part? I think it is necessary to make some changes in this regulation, so I ask that all the regulations necessary for the functioning of agricultural production in the area of subsidies and regressed production be adopted in the coming period, so that our agricultural producers have a good basis for the coming agricultural year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53041	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53042	Dear Mr. MP, the government has passed a regulation restricting exports of wheat and flour from Serbia. I think you and all your colleagues have been able to see in the past few days that we have had very serious reasons to make that decision. More than 650,000 tonnes of wheat and flour were exported from Serbia until a few days ago, when the regulation was adopted. Our balance sheet provides that exports will not exceed half a million tonnes and Serbian citizens have been put in very serious danger, that there may be market disturbances in the supply of basic food products, primarily bread, and then other flour products and products of the bakery industry. As I said, the government has brought this measure to protect the citizens of Serbia, because it is our duty and our obligation above any other obligation. There are, of course, legitimate interests that are threatened by such a decision, which are the interests of the mill industry, which it had and still has agreed jobs with primarily neighbouring but also some other countries. In the past few days, we have very pedanticly checked everything related to the determination of the exact amount of wheat in the country and today the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision approving the export of 33,000 tonnes of flour in the next few months while this regulation on the restrictions of external trade in wheat and flour is in force. It was very important for us to protect the interests of the mill industry, as well as to protect the interests of our neighbouring countries, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, which are in trouble with the supply of flour. I think this measure will fully stabilise the opportunities for this issue. Exports of 33,000 tonnes of flour in the coming months will not endanger our balances when it comes to wheat and will not lead to destabilization in the supply of the market. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has today, by a regulation, for a certain period until half of June, completely abolished customs duties on imports of wheat and approved a 100,000-ton quota that will be possible for Serbia in the coming months. So we've completely opened up the space for everyone that, if they want, they can find an interest in importing wheat. On the other hand, farmers will not be threatened, because we will return the foreign trade regime, and above all I mean the customs regime, after 15 June. This is a set of measures that will fully protect the market in Serbia, protect Serbian citizens, and will neither damage nor compromise the interests of industry, which it has found in foreign trade. This is the answer to the second question, from the area of agriculture, and it first refers to the external trade regime. Very soon, we will come out with a complete proposal of agrarian policy before the government of the Republic of Serbia. So here we are talking about the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management. At this point I can say that we will do everything in our power to help and encourage livestock production because our country, unfortunately, has one very serious structural problem – in 2010 of the total production in agriculture only slightly more than 28% is livestock production, and everything else is plant production. Serbia must move towards a completely different structure, because we will have good agriculture when we have 60% of the livestock production and 40% of the plant production. We're going to have a very serious job and a task to find a way to do it. Subsidying interest on loans to farmers, on the one hand, and the food industry, on the other hand, will be the main instrument of our agricultural policy. There's the Minister of Economy. I hope that we will find agreement very quickly on this being an important element of the policy that we will use to help the food industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53043	Would you like an additional question? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53044	I am pleased with the answer, and I hope our millers are satisfied with this regulation and that this will condition better functioning of the market in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53045	The word has the People's MP Arpad Fremond, followed by Parliament MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53046	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question as the People's MP of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians regarding the pension and disability insurance of agricultural producers. At the end of last 2010, amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act were adopted. In the third position of Article 13 of this Act, who is considered a member of a agricultural household – a member of a agricultural household, a family agricultural land, or a mixed household within the meaning of this law is a person who lives and works on a farm, a family agricultural land, or a mixed household. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, since he is present. Otherwise, this issue is not only about the Ministry of Agriculture, but also about some others, but it is about you, Mr. Minister, and it is about agricultural producers. On what basis can it be determined if someone is working on a farm home? How is it handled if someone only lives in that address, but does not deal with agriculture? What happens if someone rents the land? How is it determined that someone works in agriculture? It's a key question, and we can only assume that, according to this law. Are the agricultural producers consulted on this issue? That's what I'm interested in. What happens if someone, for example, studied medicine, doesn't want to deal with agriculture, but has a country in his name because he inherited it, lives in that household, hasn't been employed yet, and the state runs it as a agricultural producer? This is just one of the problems. The second is that the Tax Administration and the Fund, under this law, are asking each member of the agricultural household, whether or not there is a country in its name, to pay PIO, which is at an annual level of 42,818 dinars for agricultural producers. The Fund and the Tax Administration shall, on official duty, oblige members of the household to pay PIO, without any consultation of the agricultural producers. It could happen, for example, that a whole family with four members must pay by person 42,000 dinars, a total of 170,000 dinars to the state, with only three hectares of land. We of the Union of Duchy Hungarians believe this is an impossible mission and that the members of small agricultural land have nothing to pay off so much money on an annual basis. What's going on in the field? Unfortunately, payment of PIO is required from those who rent agricultural land. In some tax administrations, such as Bačka Topola, they will not issue a solution to the contribution paid if only one member paid the PIO. They're asking everyone, every member of the farmer's family, and they say they won't get a grant unless they all pay the PIO. I'm sure this is why a huge number of manufacturers aren't even registered right now. We talked about this problem already on the Committee on Agriculture. The representatives of the agriculture ministry said they would still receive a subsidy from everyone. So it's just enough for one member to pay. I now ask you, Mr. Minister, that you and Mr. Ljajic, Mr. Krkobic and Prime Minister find some solution to this issue and I am interested in your position on the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53047	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53048	I agree we have a serious question. What I can tell you at this point is that a few weeks ago this issue was open, even before a decision was made in this House on the reconstruction of the government. I am sure that because there have been personal changes in the government and because the whole process has occupied more or less everything in a certain way, no specific decisions and proposals have been made. You're absolutely right, we have one question that's been established by a new law. That question, if it would change, it can only be changed by law. On the other hand, there are certain misunderstandings that could be resolved by sublaws and just the members of the government you spoke of, the resolutely in charge of Minister Ljajic and Deputy Prime Minister Krkobibic, are dealing with the matter. I think the solution will be found very quickly. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, I can say that, in any case, anything that can be incorporated into the existing law, in sublegal acts, not contrary to these regulations, and that it is necessary to be a solution, will not be more difficult for farmers than last year. Since, of course, in the period of the year when it is necessary to very quickly define all conditions for this year's agricultural production, all these solutions and all these decisions will be made in the shortest time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53049	MP Arpad Fremond. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53050	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your reply. I'm asking you to be the initiator of the solution to this problem. What's even more important is that we should find some kind of solution for the PIO. In fact, will the subsidies, for example, be related next year to the payment of pension and disability insurance? That's the same key question for the future. This has only been applied since 2008. It's not right for someone with 0.5 acres to pay the same amount for PIO as the one with 100 acres. We have to insist on this, too, and somehow change it. Thank you for your response, and I'm asking you to be the initiator of the solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53051	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53052	Somehow, I'm just not lucky to have a minister to whom I'd ask a question to be physically present. Namely, I had a question as to whether M.M. fenced by S.H. Because of PP? In translation – will newly-roasted Human and Minority Rights Minister Milan Markovic be fenced against the action of former Human Rights Minister Svetozar Ciplic over the PP, or the Pride Parade? On 25 November 2010, I asked Minister of Minority Rights S.C., who was absent, and then, on his behalf, Prime Minister Cvetkovic answered. Asked whether the proceedings against ten members of the Patriotic Association "Obsation", arrested on 10 October 2010, are a violation of the elementary rules of criminal proceedings, because there is no evidence in the court files to support the suspicion that the defendants committed the work they are being charged with, Mr Cvetkovic replied that he did not know what to respond because he was not referred to. It was also not directed to the fact that the PP was not a public, but rather a private set. The prime minister did not, when I asked him a question, address that then human rights minister Svetozar Ciplic went with a "Death to the State" transparency. A state official propagates death to the state. That's why I wanted to ask if M.M. would. at least deny these activities to the S.C., and this is how I'm going to have to ask the question of the physically present Ms. Justice Minister – is this the behaviour of a state official, who goes along with the transparency of "Death to the State", something that is the basis for raising criminal charges? In addition, you, Madam Minister of Justice, were extremely correct and supported by the proposal of the deputy head of Mr Markicevic's parliamentary group to form a parliamentary delegation that would visit all detainees and determine what conditions they were in, whether they were extorted and whether torturers or any provocations were exposed. In the office of Parliament Secretary Mr Markicevic then spoke to the newly elected head of the Security Committee, Mr Bajatovic, who also expressed his readiness to determine whether, as well as how respected the rights of young people who have been arrested preventively, are now being held in custody for nearly six months. The initiative was also supported by DS counterpart Srdjan Milivojevic. So, I'm asking you, Madam Justice Minister, are you behind Mr. Homen's statement that the state's response will be creepy and that the creepy behavior of gay activists, who were led by one famous director on March 3rd and 4th, when the trial of ten men from the "Okraz", walked into the prison part of the Court of Justice, just ahead of ten arrested members of the Resistance, provoking them before the trial? How can any of the civilian faces even enter this department of the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53053	Three minutes. The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53054	I think that all of us, and the MPs in Parliament and us who are responsible for the functioning of our resources, care about getting in the way of the violence that has been happening on the streets of Belgrade, but also at some sporting events. We've talked about it many times in this House. I had this duty to defend the laws that imposed certain measures, which were meant to contribute to the state's response being what it deserved when it came to such incidents. At that time, we all realized that these were, of course, repressive measures, and that the state needed preventive measures and that it was necessary for us to have adequate education and adequate interest for young people in the schools themselves in order to take them on the right path. I'm not going to go into the work of the courts and the prosecution. It's not my jurisdiction as minister of justice to interfere with their work and of course I won't. I just said that the Department of Justice is responsible for ensuring the smooth work of courts and prosecutors, and we will do so, and we will not get into what decisions they will make. As for Secretary of State Slobodan Homen's statement, I think she was thrown out of context. I will remind you that on that day, there was a major destruction of property on the streets of Belgrade, that some people were in danger and in their lives, and that he thought there had to be an adequate reaction from the state authorities, primarily the police, to bring about a calming event on the Belgrade streets, and that, of course, depending on whether there was evidence against certain persons, there was also evidence of their processing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53055	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic, the other three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53056	Mrs. Malovic, of course none of us have the idea of meddling in the court process, but as a psychologist, I am fundamentally saying that Mr. Homen's statement that the state will have a creepy answer cannot contribute to any calming of the situation. Besides, nearly six months have passed, and there are still 35 people in custody. One of the questions I asked is: what happened to the initiative to determine the state of human rights of young people still in custody? Is it, say, waiting for the wife of the leader of "Obraza" Mladen Obradovic Jelen to give birth to her son turning 18, so that they can finally defend themselves from freedom? So they're being preemptively arrested because it's about people who didn't even participate in the famous PP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53057	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53058	I'm a little bit of a lawyer right now, but here, I'll try to answer your question. The Code of Criminal Procedure regulates that anyone who has committed a crime and who is found guilty of committing a crime has an obligation to do so. I've never heard of criminal charges for a sense of injury. There are some other kinds of proceedings when someone who is offended can press charges against the person who has offended them and made them. Also, on this occasion, I want to answer what you said was a violation of the rights of detainees. I don't want to go into detention grounds. They are regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure and can be different from repeating a crime, influence on witnesses, etc. I don't know what basis those faces are still in custody and, like I said before, I'm not getting into it. As far as prison behaviour is concerned, I can responsibly claim that, given the situation in prisons, they are treated as any other prisoner. Serbian prisons are also open to all international organisations or organisations authorised under the Law on Criminal Penalty to exercise supervision. It seems almost every month, depending on the organization that does it. Therefore, both in relation to them, but also in relation to other detainees and prisoners, the human rights situation can be checked.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53059	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53060	Of course, this situation can be checked, but we have had a promise that a parliamentary delegation will be created that is made up of different parties and that can determine the situation. So this knowledge that I have of the fact that on March 3rd and 4th, gay activists practically provoked people who are in custody is something that already indicates that their human rights are not respected. Secondly, Mrs Malovic, my question is real – what can be called the order in which peaceful protests are banned, in which are banned applicants, even youngsters of cardboard are arrested? I don't know if you know that there were SNP members in custody, "Our 1389" because they had General Mladic on the chart? The police eventually released a member of the Management Board, "Our 1389", but left a cardboard general in police custody until further notice. That's very interesting. So I'm just curious as to what criteria are held in custody by the same young people who are the idea makers of the whole "Serbian" brand. Vladimir Putin realized and happily accepted the message from the "Found" poster – "Putin Serb". I hope you will, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53061	The word has an MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53062	The respected presidency, respected ministers, is again a response, no matter what the new government is concerned, the same as in the previous government. Most of our favorite ministers didn't show up again, headed by "Mother" Vuk Jeremic. But we'll wait for him, of course. No problem, we're here. I have a few questions and they're all about the economy. I'm sorry the Prime Minister can't come, but I'm sure there's a capacity that will allow you to answer these questions. The first thing I'm interested in is reforming public enterprises. We had a session in Parliament right before this government's election, where the prime minister, then and present, said that the subject of coalition talks was not a division of public enterprises, nor a political change in that regard at all. Then the government was elected and we heard in his exposé that there was some kind of plan that would apply to this reconstructed so-called. a new government that will reform public enterprises, and all in the sense that they are no longer partyly deployed by a coalition agreement. My first question is, how long has it been, and what exactly does that mean? What has been arousing us politically is that for three and a half years there was no need for this, and now suddenly even the prime minister said that he is not thinking about it, that LDP MPs are wrong when they insist that they become in the first step and the rights of public enterprises that exist in the civilized world, and whose fundamental difference compared to today would be that they are independent of the political furniture that is in power. This is in some way called or all united by their independence and expertise in the concept of corporate governance. The first prerequisite would be for a public competition to take place in public enterprises, which is the fundamental disadvantage that exists today. I'm sorry that Mrs. Kalanovic isn't here, but I'm sure you can answer my other question too, and that's guillotine regulations. The other day, we saw that out of the 340 proposals the government found necessary, only every fifth was adopted to this day. First, is that true? Secondly, if true, what is the reason for the failure of the plan, which is also the basis for the functioning of the economic system in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53063	Thank you. Do any of the members of the government want to respond? Yeah. ) Minister Nebojsa Ciric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53064	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Andric, I thank you for asking. I'll start with the other questions you asked, as far as guillotine regulations are concerned. The Giljotina rule is one of the priorities at the start of the government's mandate in 2008. When asked if every fifth regulation that was to be abolished, amended, completed, and the others did not pass successfully, I will answer you directly that you are only partially right. In some areas, such as registration of companies, registration of workers, making so-called One place or one stop shop, that's where we've made a lot of progress. The Agency for Business Registers – now, the example works, when you report employees if you own a company, you do it in one place, you don't have to go on how many counters. There are exact data on how much savings are in the money related to the lifting of the rules, but in one other part I agree with you. There is definitely resistance to democracy both at the republic and local level and in terms of issuing permits and simplifying procedures. I'll tell you what, we've improved in some segments. There must be plenty of room in some. I think it's one thing that hasn't changed in decades, so maybe it's unrealistic to expect that something that's present as a big problem can change quickly, but we'll certainly do everything in our power to do it. As far as reforming public enterprises is concerned, the issue is partly in the power of the Ministry of Economy – in particular, public enterprises are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance – but in any case, as someone who comes here and comes forward on behalf of the Government, I will try to answer you. In terms of the corporation you mentioned, some of the public enterprises have already begun the process. The case works, Telecom. The government has ordered Telecom to establish corporation. As for Belgrade Airport as a public enterprise and some others, the process has begun. What is, for example, in the power of the Ministry of Economy, as regards the representatives of capital, we have called through the Agency a public call for the selection of exactly the managers, managers (call them whatever you want), which are chosen on a professional basis, based on their qualifications, education and work experience, not on the basis of the party's booklet. On the other hand, we did a similar thing in some 15 agricultural enterprises where contracts were broken. They're all in Vojvodina, for example. Alexa Shantić, Gakovo and others, where there are also representatives of the capital and directors of the companies of people chosen on the principle of expertise. The same thing was done with PIC Zemun, with the PKK. They're not public enterprises, but just to spread them to state-owned enterprises. There are certainly a large number of public enterprises where directors are selected by party key, but I think the process is started and will be completed in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53065	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53066	Thank you for your response, but I expected a little more political response, because the question is political. If we look at public or state-owned, however, state-owned or state-controlled enterprises, there is not even some register that unites them, but we say there are about 700 in Serbia, which at the local level and that small number of 30 or 25 at the republican level. When we compare that number to that number that you said, let's assume that you didn't mention everything, that process again is negligible compared to the total number of enterprises. This issue is very important, because the basic or one of the main problems that the Serbian government is also struggling with, and which bothers citizens, is the problem of corruption. And we need to speak openly. We're interested in this subject, actually. We don't care if the director is from another party, but exactly, when we link the issue of guillotine regulations, you called it red tape resistance, and that's a twisted answer to that, of course, that no one wants to abolish a place or a decision that will be able to blackmail citizens of Serbia, and there should not expect consent, especially in depth, by the locale, because that is the main basis of corruption in our society, and the second largest basis for corruption is the management of public enterprises and we can put these topics into one. If I understand you correctly, you say that some process has been initiated. There are some individual examples, we see it ourselves in the media, but it simply leaves the impression that it's just stories for the sake of it. It's as if the government has realized that it is one of the basic problems, that it is something that bothers citizens and that there is one area that the government will deal with, but the essential responsibility for it does not exist, nor is anyone willing to take over it. It's similar to the blanks. So, the government wants to lift the blank resignations, everyone's talking about it, and MPs in the ruling majority have blank resignations. There's some kind of gap between what's said and what's real. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must also say that these public enterprises are the biggest losers in Serbia. Their accumulated debt is estimated to be about five billion euros. On the other hand, this debt causes one whole chain in the economy to stand still and not move. That is why we think that this question is crucial and that the answer you have given does not give us confidence that in the government, and thus reformed, however, there is enough strength and energy, and above all a political desire to deal with this problem. And that's another thing we're obviously going to leave behind for some future government and during the post-election elections, because that means opening up some deeply painful social issues, public sector reform, and it just doesn't give us the confidence that the government is going to do it in the last months of its term of office. Something like that isn't even real to happen. What we were interested in was how did this change in the prime minister's position within just a few days when he said it was not the subject of the talks. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53067	Time. Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53068	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, let's get back to the story of the scandalous sale of Telecom and get that stuff out of the way. We heard what the left-hand side said about selling Telecom and how the whole process was going, and I'm interested in what the right-hand side is going to say here in the O.R., from the ministers present. The whole Telecom sale thing began about two years ago, when the incompetent government, which led Serbia to enormous borrowing and practically bankruptcy, decided to sell the most profitable company in Serbia after-time, to get ahead of the elections by getting little money to extend its rule. The whole process has been going in a scandalous way, under covertly, full of illegal procedures, full of controversy, and, practically, is a disgrace to the state. To be able to talk about a clean setup, he says the very course of the privatisation process of Telecom. In April of last year, the government launched a public procurement or tender for a privatisation consultant for the sale of 51% of Telekom Srbija. Only the "Siti Group" reported on the tender with its incomplete offer, which was not correct and was also in a deep conflict of interest, since it works for one of the most interested potential buyers, Deutsche Telekom, and the Public Procurement Commission decided at its session to propose to the government that the offer be rejected and that no contract be concluded with the only company that submitted the request. The government decided in a magical way differently and concluded a contract with the City Group. There's a tender in October. A number of companies, the largest in the world, have been announced, will participate in the tender. It was auctioned with numbers. We came by the end of the year, when there were no bidders, and it was extended by another two months. Within that extended time period, we received one single offer, which has all been marked rude, humiliating and scandalous. We have received statements from officials that Telecom will not be sold below the price, so I ask you, Mr Ciric, since you were a member of the task force – why has the task force decided to give an additional deadline and on the basis of which the rules are given an additional deadline for the only bidder to correct his offer? If the tender said the minimum price had to be 1.4 billion, and Telecom Austria offered 950 million, thus failing to meet the basic conditions of the tender, on what basis did the task force decide to accept the offer and to add an additional time limit to the bid?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53069	Minister Nebojsa Ciric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53070	Mr. Lapchevic, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer your question as carefully as possible. I was a member of the task force, however, for three or four months, if not more, I have not been involved in the work group. As far as I'm aware, and speaking on behalf of the Government, this is not an accepted offer from Austria's Telecom, but it's given an additional time, i.e. an additional deadline for them to complete their offer. As far as your price objections are concerned, the terms of the tender are clear. The minimum price is 1.4 billion euros for 51% of capital. And I publicly said a few days or weeks ago, here I will repeat as part of my answer to your question, and I speak for myself and for the Ministry of Economy -- I don't think the price should be reduced below 1.4 billion euros and I certainly won't vote for it. I don't think anyone else will. As far as your question is concerned, who could, is in accordance with the law, etc., you have the right, as a seller, to give an additional deadline. It's not the first time. In any sale of a private, state-owned company, a mixed company, you have the right to give an additional deadline to advance your offer. If I recall, one part of your question was about the end of 2010 and the extension of the deadline. As far as I know, the deadline for submitting an offer has been extended due to talks with OTE. Let me remind you, OTE owns 20% of Serbia's Telecom. The contract and the company statute, as well as the action contract, provides extremely large rights for OTE. Accordingly, in order for the process to be possible at all, it was necessary, of course, to agree with OTE and the conditions of sale. That's why the deadline is extended. As far as counselors are concerned, he's been elected. The relevant bodies, the independent authorities, as well as the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers, have made a statement on this, so that I would not take this issue into account. As for the price, I think the minimum cost of 1.4 billion is real. It is a minimum price and it as such is not the subject of down negotiations, but only worse, if possible. I'm expressing my personal position again, but I'll remind you that Telekom, like any normal company, is, if I may say so, a company that has obligations. I'd like to refer to Mr. Shami's commentary. As far as I'm aware, Telecom only took a loan from international banks close to 700m euros for the 2006 Telekom Srpske acquisition, and it is a loan that the same company should repay. So, if we're talking about Telecom, I still think it's important for you people's MPs, but also for the citizens who are following this session to have the whole picture. I'll do it again once again, since the price question is raised here. I think the condition of the tender is very clear – the minimum price is 1.4 billion. If Telecom Austria believes that its price of 950 million by 51% wants to increase to 1.4, that's their right, but on the other hand, I don't think anyone will accept to sell below 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53071	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53072	Here's a few comments on what you said. First, the story of the extension of the deadline and OTE. So, OTE here owns 20% of Telecom Serbia since 1996, as I recall. Is it possible that the government, which is the majority owner, entered the sales of Telecom without speaking to its partner, who has great rights in that company before any tender at all? So you went into sales 51%, and you didn't talk to your partner. It's completely unserious. As for the story of the minimum price – if Telecom Austria will, add that minimum price – what happiness is it when you sell gold coke that fills the budget of the Republic of Serbia for a minimum price? Do you expect to give more than 1.4 billion? What kind of competition is this going to be with one partner who's going to add up to 1.4 billion to a minimum price? That's completely pointless. I asked you clearly on what basis, if the tender says, in a public call, that the conditions are that there is a share in the market, that there is a leader in that area, that there is so much traffic, etc. and give a minimum price of 1.4 billion or more – if Telecom Austria did not give 1.4 billion, how could you accept that offer as valid? Why wasn't she rejected? Why wasn't that offer rejected? How can you extend the deadline? What about the other bidders, who were interested but said – we can't offer that? Shall we invite them, too, to think about adding up to 1.4 billion? What kind of way is that? So, you've been, from the beginning, from the City Group, from the fill-in of the City Group's bids, the extension of the deadline, now supplementing the deadline for completing the documentation, or meeting the tender conditions of 1.4 billion, all the time you focus on one buyer. You are literally looking for and you are now asking Telecom Austria to supplement the price to a minimum price. Well, what luck is it when you sell the market of 51% or 70% of the inflow, or in the number of users, at a minimum price of 1.4 billion, which is, in doing so, very disputable?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53073	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53074	I'll try to answer your question again. As for Telecom, I'll remind you that Telecom no longer has a monopoly in fixed or mobile phones. It has the single largest market participation in mobile phone, i.e. on the mobile operator market, but this participation has been dramatically reduced due to the great competition coming from Telenor and VIP. As for your remarks that as Government, we entered into the talks or negotiations or the sale call without OTE's consent, the sale process began in June and July. That's when the OTE talks started. Of course OTE had to give consent to start the sales process, that he had to give consent, for example, this is a technical matter, to open a data room where all interested customers, among them and some of those you mentioned, could look at the documentation and talk to management. It wouldn't be possible without OTE's consent. What's important is that, given the great minority rights that OTE has, and that was given to them in 1997 and 1998, to them and Telecom Italy, then he went out, I'll remind you, that's something you need to talk about. You can't, although you're a majority owner, in a situation like this, act autistic and say – I don't care what the minority partner thinks. As for the minimum price, Telecom was estimated at 2.48, let me say - 2.5 billion euros. This is the estimated value of capital. The market value of Telecom or any other company is that achieved in the process of sale. When you mention a minimum price, in conditions where you sell a company, you have a right, but you don't have to, to set up a minimum price. It's not the price that degrades the company you're selling, it's the price that you're not going to go below. As for one customer, I'll remind you that last year has speculated that the whole process has been initiated because of one buyer, and now we have another. The process is such that at one point there were six companies that purchased the documentation and were interested in Telecom, and eventually one came forward. So they gave the price they gave. I also said before, and I will no longer answer the subject of Telecom, but I am telling you -- the working group has decided to give an additional deadline, which they are entitled to and can be required by law to complete, improve, call it whatever you want. It's up to them to say whether they want to give 1.4 billion euros for 51% of Telecom or not. Again, if the tender condition was a minimum price of 1.4, that condition must be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53075	Here you go, Mr. Lapcitza.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53076	I ask you one thing, and you answer the other. Here's to quote what you said. Minister Ciric – refuse to offer "Telecom"; Minister of Economy and Regional Development Nebojsa Ciric announced the return of money to the economy and voiced his opinion that Austrians should not accept the offer to buy a majority package of "Telecoma Serbia" because it does not formally meet the conditions of the tender. That's all you had to say, Mr. Kiric, when I asked you, nothing else. Your party leader said the following -- the whole process for selling "Telecoma Serbia" is poorly led by a working group and therefore needs to be annulled. Dinkic also told reporters that only one company appeared in the tender, and that is enough to indicate that the whole Telecom sale process is poorly managed. He estimated that Telecom Serbia should not be sold under conditions offered by the Austrian Telecom, or below the price set by the government of the Republic of Serbia. And the whole "Telecom" and the tender thing was probably just like in the "Mobtela" case, that on that offer, more firms would come to that public call, so when they give a minimum price of 1.4 to go to auction sales to raise the price to two, two and a half or I don't know how many billion euros. This is how we fight as a state, we ask the Austrians to supplement us to a minimum price. As your Minister Markovic said, we don't sell mocart balls, so we're looking for a minimum price of 1.4 billion. The DSS finds it humiliating, that it is absolutely unnecessary to sell Telecom Serbia because it is the largest profitable company, because it maintains our sport and culture, because it has 150m euros in annual profits, because it fills the budget of the Republic of Serbia and because Telecom is the country's golden coke. A hundred thousand citizens of this country supported a petition against the sale of Telecom, ten times as many citizens of this country believe that this should not be done and ask you to honour that request.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53077	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53078	I sincerely hope that you will now, as a reconstructed government, create discontinuity in the conduct of a socially responsible policy that adorned the original cabinet of Mirko Cvetkovic, in order to, for example, try to solve some of the three problems that I will present to you on this occasion. The first concerns a memo that came from the Kragujevac, Arangelovac and Mladenec military pensioners' association and the fate of at least 150,000 damaged and disbursed military pensioners and, of course, members of their families. The problem is that for six years, the agony of military pensioners, who wander through courts, are paid by lawyers, by court experts, at high litigation costs, in order to pay off the debt incurred from 1 August 2004 to 30 November 2007. The government has resorted to the education of a working group that should find a solution to the final payment of the debt, but unfortunately, the primary goal seems to be, through imposed solutions, which will formally be followed by a working group, mutilates and removes both moral and material responsibility due to such a relationship with military pensioners. So, six years ago, the defence ministry put out of force a legally strong decision by the Serbian government guaranteeing payment of the debt to military pensioners within 90 days. Today the authors of the aforementioned draft law, so-called Advocacy to correct injustice against military pensioners offers to tighten interest rates from the day of appeal, not by law, from the day of the beginning of the debt, that the court's litigation costs are not taken over (thousands of judgments have been made, costs are on average of 500 euros) and that the debt left behind is paid by the end of 2013, which unfortunately will not be welcomed by many sick and old users. Second thing, last year we passed a law on compulsory employment of disabled people. Some companies have refused to hire disabled people, where the MTS is an example, and on behalf of that refusal they have paid a certain amount of money. So the question is, what happens to these means, are they available to the disabled? According to some information, companies that didn't want to hire people with disabilities have so far paid over 700 million dinars. So, where's that money and can the disabled use it? The third concerns relations with pensioners who have acquired this right in the countries of the former SFRY. In particular, Serbia and Slovenia's Social Insurance Agreement -- it is intended not to apply to the acquisition of the right to fines before its entry into force. About tens of thousands of pensioners have acquired this right, but they will not be able to reach their pensions precisely because of one such agreement, which apparently did not take much into account the interests of people who have acquired their pension abroad, and citizens are the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53079	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53080	I just want to say you'll get an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53081	The word has a folk MP, Professor Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53082	Madam President, my question concerns a phenomenon that we have witnessed for several years, which has had terrible consequences for the lives of citizens, by economy, general security and for the cultural heritage of this country. It's amazing how many years you can't trace a copper mob that, on the one hand, threatens people's lives by taking down every possible copper cover on the road and anywhere else, breaking cars, people's legs, etc. On the other hand, it takes off railways important parts that threaten traffic, where hundreds or thousands of people can die. In addition, they rob trafostations, abruptly disrupt the flow of electricity into households and businesses. More amazing, they're destroying the entire cultural heritage of the monumental character that's made of copper. When the Chukur Chesm Boy got up, broke and carried away, a little bit of dust went up. But they also download monuments to our writers in Calemegdan. He can't keep any Vuk Karadzic monuments. So, is it possible - this is a question for the police or the government - not to launch a big campaign, an investigation, to see? Because it's impossible, and it's not about drugs now, etc., where we show results, and here we can't show results. Drugs in some of these little boxes, and this is where they carry tons of copper. Where are they going? What's all this stuff? Who got into that? Where does that go? Are there trucks that control customs when someone's exporting copper? I'm monitoring that all the world's stock markets have raised the price of copper. So it's a big request. Who takes it and where and who controls it? This question became first-class for me when I saw that there were over a hundred reports of captured thieves that amount to dozens of tons of copper in Bor. So the copper has become something deeply sought. Every criminal always goes for it. Of course, in a big job like this, he's a great organization, and he needs a fat organization. But since it's such a huge thing, which tends to sink, I'm amazed that the police can't trace this criminal system for so many years, so I ask the government and the police - do they understand all the alarms of this phenomenon and the social and cultural danger?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53083	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53084	Mr. Micunovic, in the absence of my colleague Dacic, I can only tell you that the government is aware of this problem and that this problem is not only of the economic category, but of the safety. As you said yourself, the very important parts that are being built into the entire rail system can endanger safety. Our country is not alone. In fact, the price of copper is, quite unexpectedly, multiplied by four over the past two years. And the director of the French railway in a recent interview justifies one serious incident, where one of those so-called. TTV trains, high-speed trains, almost there was a very serious incident, even a very serious car accident, just by stealing copper in that country as well. So it has become a global phenomenon and you will get, Your Honor, Mr. Micunovic, and a response from the interior ministry on the scope of these criminal charges and actions that have been taken. It is certain that attention should be directed where copper is produced and where it is transformed, and we know where it is, it is not just Bor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53085	Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53086	Mr. Djelic, I didn't expect you to answer me with a lot of information about what it is, but people in charge of the security of this country. That's what I'm talking about. Of course, I know who can be hired people to do it. My favorite writer is Chekhov, and many of his parables "The crime of premeditation" are known when peasants take off the rails whose thresholds are tied to the rails and when the train trips, the people die, he wonders – how, so I didn't go to prison for a handful of bolts in Siberia for life? These people who do, who break, carry monuments, they don't know what it is, or those values judge, but there are those who know very well how easily they can make huge money. But since this is such a social danger, as far as cultural heritage and the security of citizens and everything, I think the situation is alarming and that this government should pay more attention to creating one crisis headquarters, to control all controllers, both police and customs and all, because it couldn't do it without some big system of joint crime to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53087	Thank you. MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53088	President, honourable ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Djelic, however, I still need to return to this debate that I believe we have launched about Serbia's entry into NATO membership, that is, the challenges in those integrations, the reasons why they are not being talked about both the potential benefit or the damage that Serbia could have. I believe that you know that the LDP does not insist on it for some reason that might be called populist, for the need to court anyone in any way, but because we honestly believe that it is in the best interest of this country. I'm going to rephrase a question that was at the beginning of this debate. So -- are you personally, as Deputy Prime Minister, a politician, as someone who even among the ministers who are here today has absolutely the longest experience in performing governmental and European integration (I think this is the fourth government in which you are minister or vice president), you believe that Serbia would come faster to full EU membership with a decision to join NATO? So it is not disputed that Serbia is likely to enter full membership without membership, only the question of what would benefit this country and what the EU would look like by that time. The second thing is it's really hard to understand this need that every time and at all costs we have to scribble and differ from other countries. I believe that we share the view and experience that this country rarely benefited from any benefit in the past, when it was quite an exception in such situations. We can be an exception to being such a small country, and we have a second or third world tennis player, but we don't have to be the only country out of this, let's not use another harsh word, the eastern bloc, the eastern lager, that will try to join the EU without NATO membership. It may also be good that what has been happening in recent days, to refute many claims about the small role of small countries in NATO, that Serbia would be completely on the sidelines in such a membership. Two or three days ago, the ambassador, the Croatian ambassador to the UN, was elected NATO Secretary-General. That's what he's saying. In some situations, it is much more than any other small country can get at the moment, especially after reforms of the Lisbon Agreement, even within the EU frameworks. If we do not talk about it, then it is quite difficult to create that policy, as we say in the LDP, of joining NATO and the EU with spine and character. That's why we intervened last week compared to a rather problematic intervention of certain Western allies in Libya. It's simply the only way to normally go into those integrations. So my question is -- do you believe as prime minister in charge of the EU that Serbia will join the EU faster if they make a decision to join NATO? You don't have to give the kind of analysis clearly expected by Ambassador Konuzin, who recommends Serbia... I expect your analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53089	Time. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53090	Government members have no personal opinion. The members of the government are implementing state policy and that resolution voted by this Assembly. The answer is that both EU leaders and NATO's own leaders do not link membership in one organisation to membership in another organisation, nor condition it. This gives Serbia freedom to determine what it is to do and should not be determined according to what those who support NATO's alliance and those who are against it have to tell us about it, too. Of course, everyone's welcome. What is important to say is that in deciding in that alliance there is a need to know who determines which decision, and we see, contrary to what you just said, and we congratulate our Croatian colleague on that choice. In any case, depending on its own decisions, it is good for someone in our region to play a observed role in any regional or global organisation. But we will notice in these recent events in Libya, that there was excess tension within the alliance itself, among the older and much larger members of the alliance, about decisions and how this intervention should be conducted. It's a minimum, which anyone who looks at the functioning of this alliance must notice. The answer to your question is that every member of the government, including myself (rightly, with the longest duration), must maintain the decision of those who, above all, have determined both the composition of this government and its controllers, as we see today, and that is a decision that expresses the vast majority of what our citizens want at this moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53091	Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53092	We need to get in line. I hope that what you just said, that the ministers in the government cannot give their opinion, is not a criticism of Mr. Ciric, who has just delivered his opinion that he would vote or that he would decide on an offer that came from Telecom Austria. I asked you for your political opinion. You are a high-ranking party official of the ruling coalition, and in this capacity, you have in some way changed the policy in relation to Euro-Atlantic, or NATO integration in the last few years. You were a member of the government after October 5th, i.e. after January 2001, which had a very clear view of the need for Serbia to integrate into both NATO and the EU. You will hardly convince anyone today that, at least by 2006 or 2007, Serbia's EU integration was not tied, practically at any time, and to make a decision to join NATO. What changed in the meantime? You have recently instructed here the reasons that burden, so to speak, the possibility of a decision on Serbia's entry into NATO. And those challenges that exist are real, they're true. It is true that NATO bombed Serbia, it is true that there have been other misunderstandings, but this has not happened in the last two, three or four years. The only thing that happened after 2003 and after your party left the government was the March pogrom in 2004, when NATO forces in Kosovo managed to protect the Serbs and Serbian assets in Kosovo in some way and to some extent, limited and perhaps insufficiently. The only thing that changed in the meantime was the fact that at one point there was a coalition with DSS Vojislav Kostunica. I hope that's not the only reason you changed the attitude you had a few years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53093	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53094	Mr. Djuric, I certainly am not a supporter of some formalism that has no place, but should still be reminded that the late Zoran Djindjic was the prime minister of the Serbian government who was in a larger state and that foreign policy, including defence policy, was determined at the federal level. We know who was then Foreign Minister – Mr. Svilanovic, and we know who was commander-in-chief – Vojislav Kostunica. Under these conditions, the government of the Republic of Serbia never discussed the issue, nor could it be discussed because it was not its ingenuity. The only thing I can say is that this is an extremely important issue, and I think it's a good thing that you and your party are regularly asking arguments about this issue and looking for answers – the NATO Alliance is reality. Does it need more evidence than what we see on TV these days? And we have to determine ourselves at every moment compared to one such reality. We can't ignore her. Serbia's response was to join the Partnership for Peace in 2006, Serbia's response is the military neutrality voted by this assembly, Serbia's response is to take an interest in the initial Russian proposals that have already been the subject of a discussion between the Russian Federation and the EU on the new concept of common defence of our continent, and surely in our country, because of the specificity and history that cannot be erased, it is reality and it is part of not only our history, but also of what is politically directed to work at a given moment, what happened between the NATO Alliance and our country. But, on the other hand, let's look at the recent interview of the American ambassador, the so-called ambassador. for us, of course, in so-called. the state of Kosovo. He announced the closure of Bondsteel. Those who, in what was absolutely unacceptable to us, in the unilateral declaration of independence of our southern province, see some form of the project of the alliance, as the crown proof of Bondsteel, and today we see that the US High Representative in our southern province announces the closure of Bondsteel and the departure of the last American soldier from that base. So you don't have to go and look for more enmity where there isn't one, but look at reality and define yourself exclusively in the interest of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53095	Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53096	I'm afraid I didn't understand this last claim and, if I understand correctly, I hope it's not the official position of the Serbian government, even if these parties are making it now. I am sorry that I brought you into this situation, unintentionally, to claim that Vojislav Kostunica and Goran Svilanovic, or the DSS and the GSS, pushed Serbia into NATO, and the Democratic Party was against it. I really don't think anyone who remembers those times would be able to confirm and, finally, it's not fair to a party whose office you are, but I'm not going to comment on it any further. I said it was not disputed that there were serious disagreements between NATO members over the interventions in Libya, but regardless of what decision NATO finally makes, it always refers to the country in which it intervenes or with which it has some kind of relationship or some other kind of problem. It is clear that NATO countries, which are members of NATO, could have had a much greater impact on any decision-making than we are outside NATO. Mr. Djelic, I only have one last question, and you can't answer me, you'll answer me another time - how much will it cost to excise on motor gasoline when the Excise Act changes?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53097	Thank you. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53098	Dear Presidents, dear fellow ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is about the Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society, Mr Predrag Markovic. I asked him the day before yesterday in the form of a classic parliamentary question, I expect a written reply, but today I will ask you the same or very similar question. Question number one -- do you think and think, as competent minister, there is censorship in Serbia? Or do you agree with me, and I believe you agree, that state and national interests are objective information and free media, and do the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you as the competent minister protect them? I'll remind you of a few affairs, cleanups or problems that were in the media, in the field of information, until you became a minister, who found you. I will remind you of a cleanup on the weekly "NIN", where, among other things, the other journalists Nikola Vrzic, Petar Igna, Borislav Papić, Ruža Ćirković (who received the prize for journalist of the year, and at the same time ran out of work; I hope you remember that), that without a job on the weekly "NIN" there was Slobodan Reljic, who was the longest editor in the history of this week, seven years. Then I will tell you about an event that you may have missed here in this room, when Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac openly said that he called the editor-in-chief "Politicals" and intervened about one text and asked how one text could happen in the paper, where the editor-in-chief Bujosevic replied that he did not know how it happened and that it would no longer happen. That's the press pressure of the ministers. I'll remind you of the case of Raja Rodic, a political prisoner. Don't let us deal with euphemisms and turn away the topic, we know that Rajo Rodic, the owner of Kurira, was a political prisoner for a year and a half. Let me remind you that the person on Interpol's TV warrant with a national frequency has been trying to influence public opinion in Serbia. In such an atmosphere, after all that, you come, and I hope something changes. You have the first exam for you, the Atlanta show case on Radio Belgrade's Second Program. I'm sorry, we know that this show was lightningly shut down, under very strange circumstances. We know that the RTS Programme Committee, whose chairman is our fellow MP Dragoljub Micunović and whose member is our colleague Zeljko Ivanji. What do you know about how you can tell the public what happened and how you think you're reacting?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53099	Here you go, Mr. Minister. The word has Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53100	First, I thank my colleagues for their help. You won't believe it, Mr. Djelic is more experienced, he says, in the Assembly than I do, when it comes to new technique. Thank you. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament, thank you for asking, although I am not sure that it is set in a way that you can get an answer in accordance with what the Rules of Procedure foresees. I, of course, will, above all, adhere to rules which I hope is clear to all, as it is clear to all who are building true democracy that MPs, whatever electoral law it was, if there were no objections to the election process itself, certainly representatives of the citizens, and that the executive power of Parliament is, more specifically, the majority in Parliament. In the same way, I stick to the rules that it says – Serbia is full of volunteers to do other people's work, mostly in political statements, media statements or in the pub, but I advocate, so I hope that you too will respect it, Mr. Tomic, that first those in charge of a particular job give answers and facts. Of course, it is up to you, as an MP, to accept or interpret them in one way or another, and a whole series of what you have rhetorically marked as 'I remind you', it is not possible to remind me, because it was not in my jurisdiction, and mine, you will allow, private opinion is a private opinion. As Mr Djelic said almost correctly (just as he was in a hurry), therefore, there is certainly a personal opinion of the minister, but it would be very incorrect to say it from the minister's post and in response to the MP, because he respects him, but he can make it personal. But they don't serve these sessions we're in right now. They serve to get the right answer, because I believe you're putting it on behalf of the interested. The only question that, in that sense, was really addressed to me – do I think there are censorships in Serbia. If you ask me from the point of view of the state, censorship is established by the state that some regulation is censored. The state of Serbia doesn't do that. The state of Serbia has laid down certain rules with the decisions of this parliament. If you ask me (I hope I won't get out of the time frame much, Madam President) is there anything else, which may seem private to me – yes, it seems to me that there is self-censorship. Autocensorship, Danilo Kish says, is much more dangerous than censorship, because people often, thinking it's important that you keep quiet, they shut it down. The state can only establish rules, this Parliament does and I will be able to do only one thing within my jurisdiction, and that is that additionally, because it is terribly important everything that you have counted, and which is part of the oath that we have taken, I will especially, and I have already made a proposal today and I hope that tomorrow the Government will execute the appointment, set up within this Ministry of State Secretary for Information. Why? So that everything about media strategy, media laws, concrete cases, and believe me, I'm not sure that the cases you claim to exist are part of it, that the additional state would deal with the point of law enforcement and the establishment of a strategy relative to the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53101	MP Zeljko Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53102	Mr. Markovic, I asked you if there was censorship, and you answered me a lot longer whether or not you confirmed that there was auto-censorship. Please explain in such detail whether you think there is censorship. In particular, the "Atlantis" show case on the Second Radio Belgrade Programme. I've described to you the atmosphere that has welcomed you. I didn't ask you to comment on what was on the media scene until you became Minister of Information. Now I'm asking you for a specific case. It's about the Second Radio Belgrade Program, I'm talking about the national frequency. So you are directly here in front of the Serbian public to respond to a specific case. There's something I need to tell you. The show "Atlantis" on the Second Radio Belgrade programme was not abolished because of the RTS Programme Committee, but was done by the Management Board and the editorship of Radio Belgrade -- programme board president Dragoljub Micunovic said. Academik Niksa Stipcevic, chairman of the RTS Management Board, said he was not informed of this change and knew nothing about it. Someone's not telling the truth. We will, Serbian citizens, listeners to Radio Belgrade, we MPs, we need to know what's true. Due to two opinions, out of 18 members of the Programme Committee, the programme is no longer available. The public didn't get an explanation. It is unfortunate, in my opinion, that two MPs participate in all this – Dragoljub Micunović and Željko Ivanji. Unfortunately, I claim censorship exists. I'd like to be reassured by your actions in the coming months until the election. You personally, which I know what he does, what he does in life, and that he has a certain kind of integrity. We expect you not to see censorships in Serbia, at least on the media with a national frequency. This is a clean case of censorship. Elimination, no adequate explanation on any side, one radio show, what else? What kind of explanation did you hear as a minister? Here, as a man, as a citizen, as a minister, however you wish, what reason did you hear and from which competent authority that could deal with this case? You haven't heard any, let's be honest. This is a drastic example of censorship. Let's make sure it doesn't happen in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53103	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53104	He's laughing. Excuse me, please, and smile is part of democracy. Mr. Tomic, I personally appreciate you, and I ask you to consider that my obligation, in accordance with my powers, is to answer your question and in this way to express my respect. If you're quoting me something, which I, of course, don't know if your quote is correct and where you quote it from (the news is full of different allegations that are being transmitted), if I respect you, then I don't know how to understand your second part of the question in which you tell me that you've never heard what people have said, and you just read it to me. I come from only one fact, and that's that all about fellow Members, I'm sure there's a willingness, it's not necessary at this session, and you don't need a minister, ministers are just executive power, a passing matter, that you can exchange between yourselves as accurate information and it's not correct for me to do so. When it comes to the show and the way you presented it, I have no reason not to believe you, but I have also learned, by leading a Parliament's call, that I must and how to be aware of exactly what that legal basis means, which says that MPs also enjoy full immunity for what they say, and the same immunity, as you know, enjoy ministers, and everything you reminded that a minister has said or not, I think it's within the scope of immunity and it's not for me to check. But I guarantee you that I would certainly not take an oath to enter the Serbian government, and this oath has a clear text, that I expected any of the MPs (I believe that you have done it in the best of terms, with concrete examples that bother you) to ask that the Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society will be someone who will guarantee the introduction or non-introduction of censorship, then should not need a democratic procedure. I respect exactly what you said, that the authorities are giving answers and, as you've informed me now, and I'm gonna give the warrant to check it out, the authorities have given their answers. Whether it's true or not, let's be a little modest. Besides, I've seen you, this isn't according to article 107, that I'm giving a private grade, but I've seen in the media that you're all cheered up at one game, I guess there's emotion here, independent of the results. It is possible that at that moment your team is losing, but you are still rooting from the bottom of your heart, and I believe that this discussion is also for that. If it's true, it's not up to you or me to decide. It's my duty to give you the exact information, and you'll get it in writing, on all these issues. Thank you very much for your trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53105	Mr. Tomic can comment on Mr. Secretary's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53106	Yes, but, Mr. Minister, you haven't answered anything about a specific case, and it's about informing on a national frequency. Did he, who and how and how, and how, download "Atlantis" from the Second Radio Belgrade Programme? Why did you not answer? Why, who, how? It's a crown question. Let's tell the truth, that this show has been lifted because of its content, that it has been abolished because certain people such as Noam Chomsky, such as Edward Herman, such as Diana Johnson, such as the quoted ideas and thoughts of Borislav Pekic about freedom, democracy, etc., because one vision and one truth are different from the one declared by today's rule in Serbia. Let's just ask ourselves if every show that doesn't share the government's Eurofanatism is doomed to take it off the agenda and whether it's inappropriate. That's the real question. Citizens need to know the answer to that question because they pay the subscription, at least because of it. Five times I repeat, it's a program with a national frequency. Does this mean that the government's strategy is to provide people with work and bread to compensate for bans (it's about bans, don't baptize them) and repression under whose blade both DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, its president, and one radio show, and tomorrow perhaps our entire people? I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, at first I told you, I suppose we agree that state and national interest and objective information and free media. It's been two minutes. I'll be right there. You publish books as a publisher, but don't issue national interests, provide objective information...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53107	You have no more words. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53108	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a few questions. I'll just try to ask him some questions and then he'll give me some answers later. The peasant pensioners belong to a group of non-commercial households, with a pension of 8,300 dinars, so I ask you, can they handle their households with this pension, because they have no right to use subsidies? The second question – when will it be paid and why is the fourth one not paid, the last war of late pensions since 2010, i.e. for 2011, because it was promised to be paid? The third question – will the Ministry of Agriculture lend loans through commercial banks for spring sowing? You know very well that the spring sow is on the threshold, so will the peasants be able to sow their parcels without money or dinar? The fourth question is about the social-health insurance of agricultural households, meaning peasants, and that is whether the farmer of the agricultural land can verify the book, that is, that all other household members can verify the book, but that it does not happen that everyone in the household should pay social-inhabited insurance? The fifth question – why has not all subsidies been paid to agricultural households so far? In contact with the peasants, I've seen that by now more than half the subsidies have not been paid? The sixth question is very important – is it true and who is responsible for the import of contaminated wheat, because the Vinci Science Institute has made an official statement that the wheat imported by MK Komerc has been contaminated, and that the raw materials from which the mineral fertilizer imported are also contaminated, that they have radioactive matter, and that radioactive waste? You know I spent over 30 years in a mineral fertilizer factory, and I'll give you a certain explanation later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53109	Mr. Minister, come in. Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53110	Last year, the way one set of conditions has been established so that agricultural producers could exercise the right to grant and the truth is that pensioners, unlike previous years, have no longer found themselves in this circle of persons, because this is about the commercial side of agriculture. It wasn't an easy decision, but the Ministry of Agriculture proposed at that point and the government stood on that view that it was necessary to get out of one kind of social policy through subsidies and to strengthen this other vision, and that was economic policy, and that was the reason. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia had at their disposal a certain amount of money, and with that sum they tried to make the most possible shift that was meant to lead to an increase in agricultural production. Last year we had a record export. I think it's good that the structure of these exports is different than it was in the previous year, but the government's own intensity to increase the economic strength of agricultural producers has been achieved this way. Of course, farmers who are retired have been denied the ability to get one piece of that money, but it is always, unfortunately, that every government has to try to achieve the greatest possible effect on the resources available to it. On the other hand, as far as the questions of certification of books and all other matters related to the exercise of social rights are concerned, the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible. I'm something, in one of the answers I've tried to answer the same question that you've now asked. We are having a very serious debate on how to find an answer to this solution set up by the Social Security Act. I think we'll have very soon all the answers, both to your question and to the questions that have been asked here before. I will collectively respond to all that concerns the upcoming agricultural policy, that is, economic policy in agriculture. The agriculture ministry will quickly come out with a system of measures before the government and the government will, as authorized, make decisions. Of course, we're at the beginning of corn sowing, there's a set of sugar tails, and I think we'll have a quick answer to how much money will be available to subsidize loans. Loans have already been subsidized since the beginning of this year. At this point we have made a small delay, only to be able to see what the effects of the subsidies from last year and from the beginning of this year and very soon we will continue. About the problem with imported wheat and artificial fertilizer, what I can say is that all you have as information, that it exists as a problem, please deliver it to us. There is a very strict control in all import jobs, so every kilogram of wheat must pass all control of the phytosanitary inspection, as is sampled and artificial fertilizer imported into Serbia. So I'd be very grateful if you'd make the information you've got available, and I'm sure the inspections have been doing their job very closely. But, of course, we'll check everything you've got.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53111	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53112	Thank you. However, I don't think you've answered my second question – when will the fourth war of late pensions be paid? What I would further like to answer you is about this sixth question, importing wheat. You are well aware that this issue of quality control of imports and wheat and raw materials for mineral fertiliser factories has been raised on the home Board of Science and Technological Development. I must honestly tell you that there has been this knowledge at the Vinch Institute, that is, that it has not allowed engineers to exercise adequate control, because we know well that the Vinch Institute is today the most qualified to give certain parameters regarding the radioactivity of imported raw materials. You know very well that the raw materials used to produce mineral fertilisers are nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphuric acid. Therefore, these raw materials are very susceptible and have to be strictly controlled. It was also done when I worked in a mineral fertiliser factory and as a man from that branch, I know well how and how it could have been misused, or increased radioactivity in these raw materials. What I said was actually wheat imported from Chechnya, which was of increased radioactivity, and that was then a big problem, which I did, when it was a list of agricultural goods, where individuals didn't realize that it was the use of mineral fertilisers, and then, in the process of vegetation, it was passed on to wheat. So I'm telling you it's one of the big problems, because Victoria Komertz imported such components for production and it came under control. The second thing I wanted to say to you, and you said in the beginning, about these agricultural pensions, they are less than social assistance today, and I think that today's beneficiaries of agricultural pensions, you know that well, these are nursing households, so to speak, abandoned households, and I think we need to adequately turn to these citizens, or we need to give them some help, go around, see how... Because it's not just a question, you know, and you said well that a surplus in the export of agricultural products has been achieved, but I'm asking if the state has helped so much agricultural production that this surplus could be achieved. Because that surplus was symbolic compared to the surplus that makes Holland and other countries, but know for sure that the surplus was still a straw of hope that in such a difficult situation, the economy would still stop this economic tragedy of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53113	If you can respond at a short time interval, Mr. Minister. That's another minute, a minute and a half. If not, let's close the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53114	I'll answer you in a very short time. With regard to any irregularities identified by the competent inspection authorities in respect of imports of any wheat, any artificial fertiliser or components for the production of mineral fertilisers, we will forward the question to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy concerning the payment of residual pensions to farmers, and I think we will get a quick answer to that question. I'm going to answer you for something I skipped on purpose. He remained a certain debt for last year's subsidies. Far from the fact that this debt is greater than what has been paid, it is far less, and it will be a priority in paying for the agriculture ministry. We are making financial plans these days on how to end this debt, to end up with the previous year and that we can enter the agricultural policy for 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-31-0.u53115	Respected members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable MPs, it is 19.00 hours, we are finishing a session in which MPs are asking questions to members of the government. I thank you all for your participation in the work. We'll continue our work on Tuesday, April 5th at 10:00 p.m.
