ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60776	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, almost two years have passed since the start of the H1N1 flu vaccination affair. It has been confirmed that earlier doubts have been expressed that the Republic of Serbia's budget is damaged is correct. Deeply personal reasons led the former health minister to resign. It seems to me, very similar in our environment. The chronicle of the vaccine purchase against the new flu is next. The government has decided, not the minister, I guess as a collective body, to protect its population from pandemics and disease from the new flu, which is fine. The proposal to obtain three million doses of vaccines to the government was proposed by the then health minister, probably frightened by both the fact and the notice of the working group, which he himself chose, that over two million people would suffer in Serbia. The government is forming a working group, its working group, which is now a health minister, now former, minister of education, now minister and science, and Minister of State Administration and local self-government, and now a minority, and makes a recommendation, i.e. making a decision to obtain vaccines. One of the bidders, who offered the lowest price, I guess by feeling like a minority, giving up. Interestingly, the contract was concluded with one company, which was probably the majority, which later turned out to be one of the larger financials now the non-existent G 17 Plus party, dressed now in the URS. This vaccine is obtained at a price of less than eight euros. My question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why do the ministries, which are trying to solve the problem of the damaged budget for nearly 120 million dinars, have different views on how to conduct an investigation and inform the public of Serbia of the anti-legislative spending of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget? The Democratic Party of Serbia warned the government at the end of 2009 and notified the public of events happening during the purchase of the H1N1 vaccine. Some parties welcomed it to the knife, saying it was a demagogue approach to the problem and a collection of cheap political points. The effect and epilogue of that is known. The public of Serbia and Serbian citizens is not interested in the conflict between the two main parties in the ruling coalition and their public bickering over the problem, the public of Serbia is interested in how the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged by 120m dinars. So my question is - is it true that the government of the Republic of Serbia has reached a conclusion on the purchase of three million doses of vaccines? At whose recommendation did the government conclude on the purchase of this amount of vaccine? Is it true that these same vaccines were offered to the tender commission by Torlak, at a price of 3.9 euros? Is it true that the government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded a contract with "Yugochemy"? What are the institutions and individuals covered by the investigation into this supply of H1N1 vaccines?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60777	The word has been made by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. Excuse me, MP, you and MP Bojan Đuric joined at the same time. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60778	Dear President, honourable MPs, my parliamentary question has been addressed to Minister for Infrastructure and Energy Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and it refers to the road route Novi Pazar – Tutin. This traffic connects the Tutino municipality, not only with the neighboring town, Novi Pazar, but also with other parts of our Republic, as well as with the world, which speaks of immeasurable importance and strategic interest in our municipality. The car is in a very bad state, one of the worst in the Republic and wider in the Balkans. She's very devastated, with countless hatches, narrowings, slides, she's completely devastated, without a minimum of road-transport conditions, with countless impact holes, partially dressed asphalt. Due to the specificity of this field of high altitude, long winters with lots of snowfalls, it is very difficult to maintain it in winter conditions, so it is rarely curtained for a few hours. The length of this section is about 33 kilometers. To cross a passenger car takes more than an hour and cargo vehicles with cargo, it takes several hours. The Tutina municipality is one of the poorest municipalities in the Republic, with a gross social product much lower than the republican average, with an unemployment rate of an incredible 70%, which in numbers means 36,000 inhabitants, only 3,000 work. The National Employment Service records 7500 employees. The difficult economic and social situation further complicates this poor road infrastructure. A very good idea about the industrial zone on the Cave is currently impossible to realise because of very poor communication to Sandzak and within Sandzak. Our citizens rightly expect Mr. Mrkonjic to make an effort, as he has promised so far, to find a way to completely reconstruct this traffic station, cover it with an adequate layer of asphalt, because it means life to my fellow citizens, meaning communication with the rest of this Republic and in general with the world. Then there will be new investors and new investments, because now there are absolutely no new production plants or new investors in our municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60779	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60780	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question concerns KIM, or northern Kosovo, today is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the Prime Minister. Today is the eighth day of the blockade that has practically paralysed life in northern Kosovo as well as in the southern parts of Serbia. Mr. Hamzagic spoke of ways that mean life, the need to pave the way for that part of Sandzak. I totally agree with that, but that's impossible. At the same time, we have a completely amazing process, that something called alternative roads and alternative roads, that all life in that part of Serbia, and then the region, depends on these forest paths which are one part the only means of communication for these unfortunate people and, on the other hand, the space for uninterrupted or just slightly reduced smuggling, which is also one of the key problems that caused the whole issue and the whole block and created. What's the question for the government – how long does he think he's holding that frozen problem? Whether the president is in any way announcing in New York, so to speak, copying the model between Israel and Palestine, which is probably the longest frozen conflict in the modern world, or by recycling today some ideas that involve the Wesminster model, the two German models, etc. These were first issues for the early '90s, if not then, for 2006, 2007, 2008, when some of these solutions could have been on the table. Today, these solutions are not realistic, they cannot be an answer to the problems Serbia has, nor to the problems that Serbs in northern Kosovo have, problems which have almost the same number of Serbs living south of Ibra, but also to the problems of people in Sandzak, in southern Serbia, around Vranja, who are most threatened by the fact that again, practically, trade with Kosovo is closing. This type of stubbornness between Pristina authorities and Belgrade authorities, the issue of whether on the stamp, and then on customs papers, Kosovo and Metohija, the Republic of Kosovo, is a beautiful word of Kosovo, only leads to the impossible situation of Serbs from the north, leads them to a situation that they managed to build a barricade or wall around them in one and a half days, which has become larger than the Berlin Wall, which has been built for decades. Three-and-a-half metres was the average height of the Berlin Wall, and a wall broke down five metres a day in northern Kosovo Mitrovica. In the end, there will be only this piece of heaven that will be able to look at these people and depend on the smugglers. The problem cannot be solved by the fact that the headlines of certain Belgrade media indicate complaints that the government in Belgrade is not controlling the so-called. parallel institutions in northern Kosovo. The LDP talked about it 15 or 20 days ago, that they could not lead these unfortunate citizens or organise protests by people holding under their paws by a parallel institution, who were voted by several times by fewer people than the number of people working in them, who received compensation from the Republic of Serbia. The problem cannot be solved by the government's administrative measure, which allegedly returns Kosovo's north to Serbia's VAT space. Even the income that will be generated on this basis is 10, 15, 20 times lower than those 550-600m euros that go to Kosovo every year and actually north of Kosovo. The answer is neither cynicism nor Mr. Ivanovic and Mr. Bogdanovic, particularly Oliver Ivanovic, who felt the need for Serbs south of Ibra to declare traitors. It doesn't go parallel to big TV contributions about how the Prezren Bible is finally opened after 12 years, which is a great thing, but south of Prizren space where these people managed in some way to organize themselves, and without these insane performances that involve cousion, so folklore, then literary and sports evenings. It was following folklore barricades around Knin, barricades around Sarajevo, all those barricades that brought us into these problems. That's why, Mr. Hamzagic, there's no room for asphalting that road. That is why 10 or 11 drivers from Raska and the environment are deprived of freedom in Kosovo. That requires the state's response and cutting off that Gordi knot. We cannot rely on a TV feature in which a darkened truck driver testifies that his life was at risk yesterday in Kosovo. Of course his life was at stake, but the way out of it can't be waiting. The idea by Mr. Ivanovic that Europe, NATO and the new world order have lost ahead of time a battle in which Serbs will no longer be able to withstand these barricades and blockades, because of the preservation of a completely defeated policy that has hit the wall or because of the preservation of the interests of several criminals hiding behind those barricades.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60781	The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic, and Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60782	Dear citizens of Serbia, respecting all the topics and issues previously asked by fellow MPs here and asking for information and answers from the competent state authorities, I think that in what I ask in some way everything they have asked will be sublimated. I have a question for the finance minister, namely the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. We have witnessed the last few years of all his statements concerning the economic, financial, economic situation in our country. Of course, this is the most important issue, because of the success of implementing government decisions and resolution ministers related to economy and economy, it concerns the standards of millions of citizens of Serbia, families and their children. Since Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic recently said that we came out of the crisis, though on our feet, sportsly said that as a state, as an economic society, as an economic society, we were in a "nok down" and we came out of the crisis on our feet. Some other ministers, whose portfolios are directly related to the economic and economic situation in the country, differ from Mr Mirko Cvetkovic's statements. We heard and read the day before yesterday at a meeting attended by a major economic expert from the world, otherwise the maker of the euro, it was said that Serbia has prepared measures, as Serbia reportedly is now entering a new crisis. I would like to know whether Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can come out loud and precisely to the citizens of Serbia, and to say in what state the budget of the Republic of Serbia is, as it is, full, and since this is indeed the government's social responsibility, how obligations are being met to the citizens of Serbia who, according to the laws of this country, have the right to social contributions from the budget. Since the start of the school year, that many parents couldn't even get their children's equipment in an adequate way, not to tell the champions who first go to school, that yesterday, or today, as anyone sees, started in the fall, that winter is approaching, that they announce an increase in energy prices of which some citizens and heat up, and we all know when energy prices increase that then there goes the chain of collection of products that are most important for the basic existence of citizens. Not to mention the poor pensioners who have their own party here representing them, but I can barely hear them here in parliament. As they comment on IMF leader's statements that pensions will have to be reduced, that retirement conditions will be tightened, I would like to hear what their reactions are. Is that why there is more and more talk in this parliament and in the public speculation that the elections may be held in January because in February the IMF will set the conditions for the government of the Republic of Serbia and this state, a 20% pension reduction, a 20% layoff from the public sector of 20%? These are all issues that Mr Cvetkovic should, if not in some public service interview, then perhaps in addressing parliament, it should, given the economic situation and the standard of citizens who are desperate and more and more people have poor people, turn around, explain, that people are getting ready to survive the winter that is coming, so that we don't finish how it ends these days, about the already famous purchase of vaccines, and some of us were asking questions about these vaccines in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60783	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60784	We call this institute the Rules of Procedure a colloquial question. Citizens expect us to ask questions that do not come to the answers to the competent authorities or stop to solve the problems that concern these explanations here in front of the citizens of Serbia, thus putting some kind of positive pressure on some issues to be resolved. I'm going to ask a parliamentary question about the situation in "The Trustee" and try to force the company to go bankrupt. I will specify the number of times repeated details in the address of employees in the company where they inform the public that in this year for the third time, bankruptcy has been launched over the company "Trubnik", which is normally in restructuring, and that the previous two-time attempt has been rejected since the company is in the process where a solution is to be found and to continue to work. What I have accepted to ask this parliamentary question is a situation that concerns not only the "Trudents" but many companies that have been privatised, and later it turns out that the reason for privatisation was actually the arrival of certain assets or assets of non-recorded enterprises, and it would have to be on the accounts and on the records of the state of Serbia. They claim that "The Trustee" in the account of the Serbian Bank has a $12.8m worth of money, but that account is not registered in the NBS. This means that the NBS does not have a record of certain foreign exchange assets that the domestic company, on some legal basis, is glass, and I point out that as a question of the NBS, because we have specifically insisted that the Ministry of Finance and the NB cannot transfer a ball called the control of foreign exchange flows between one and the other authorities and that the state of Serbia because it lacks funds from exports for many purposes, including the return of foreign credits, the import of repromaterials must by law provide a principle for the recording of these funds. I ask that information be checked that the account at the "Serbian Bank" has an amount of $12.8m, which is the money of "Trudents", but that there is no record of it, and that the company "Monter" that privatised this company is conducting a 580m-dollar dispute, but that a report of the Privatisation Agency has been rejected, because the court experts designated by the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade have found that there is no continuity of the business on which the "Monter" could demand these funds, and it is very likely that this dispute will be brought to the benefit of the "Trudent". For the second and third initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings, according to employees, I have no documentation for this and therefore I say hard employees, the order was issued by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. In addition to the questions about foreign exchange records, I ask the question – to whom it contributes that KMG "The Trustee" in restructuring goes into bankruptcy violently without finding a way for people to continue to work, receive salaries, support their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60785	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to ask three parliamentary questions. First, it refers to an SRS parliamentary group initiative based on Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 40. The Law on the National Assembly has asked for the following agenda to be discussed at the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: 1. A report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the development of events related to KIM on the implementation of activities and measures to protect sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the adopted Declaration of the National Assembly. I propose that a session of the National Assembly with the proposed agenda be held in Kosovo's Mitrovica, and I will appoint National MP Dragan Todorovic as representative. The request shall be submitted by the Members of the SRS to the Members of the People's Parliament. An explanation of this proposal: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at a session of the 10th extraordinary session in 2011, held on July 31st 2011, adopted the Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current state of play in KIM following unilateral and violent acts of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina." In point 6(d), the National Assembly obliged the Government of the Republic of Serbia to regularly, at least once every three months, report the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the development of events related to KIM and the implementation of adopted activities and measures to protect sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. This deadline expires on 31 October 2011, but given the events of 16 September 2011, and the attempts by the Cypriot separatists to help Eulex and take over the administrative crossings round their country in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we feel it is necessary that this session be held as soon as possible, i.e. the Second Regular Session in 2011 is dedicated to this topic in order to really show the Serbs in KIM that we are serious about protecting their rights and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We believe this session should be held in Kosovo Mitrovica where there are technical conditions for holding a session. Meanwhile, we have received from the Vice-President of the Assembly that, for business reasons, this session cannot be held in Kosovo Mitrovica, but I want only once more to be considered, because if the Law on the National Assembly, Article 40th and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, gives us the opportunity to schedule this session, I believe that the Rules of Procedure as a minor act are irrelevant and we should, with good faith, overcome this problem and still schedule this session in Kosovo Mitrovica, which would show that Serbian institutions continue to live in the area of KIM, and that obligation we have and we have the possibility under UN Security Council Resolution 1244. On the other hand, this session is also necessary because humanitarian disaster is possible. In fact, every day is getting harder and harder to be down in the space of Kosovo Mitrovica. Did you hear that they would listen to the contributions that a Serb driver who wanted to enter Merdare was beaten up and his truck would be carried out in the same way as Serbs but not from Raska and from the King but from the Serbs from Mitrovica, from Zvecan and Leposavic, arrested 13 just for carrying some goods. It is the will and one demonstration of the forces of the Shyptarists and terrorists who want to show how they exercise some authority. If in the past 12 years, Serbs have provided themselves with the conditions to live, as they have accepted to live in the worst conditions currently in the world, in wires and fences, then I see no reason why parliament should not help and show good faith and bring all the necessary logistics to these Serbs in their honorable and honest intentions. On the other hand, I wanted to ask what the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija should do, to pardon the president, the head of the negotiating team and his deputy, as well as the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, to come to the Committee's meeting, for Kosovo and Metohija. I remind you, we held five sessions and did not attend any sessions, and these sessions were scheduled in agreement with them. The third question, which I would like to ask, concerns the Law on Restitution and I am asking the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why the law on restitution has been in force since 9.3.1945 and is beginning to apply. Why not since 6.3.1945. That is, from the day Pop Vlad Zecevic banned the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija by his regulation and when Serbs could not return to their properties, and those properties were usurped. These are Albanians who came from Albania and settled on Serbian estates back in 1945, so I don't think it's a big problem to write instead of 9, written in 6.3.1945 and help the Serbs who were then damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60787	The word has a folk letter from Jadranka Jovisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60788	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I would like to ask the NBS and the governor of the NBS about the reasons and possible obstacles to the introduction of the electronic payment market in Serbia. Or whether there are obstacles to the approval of online electronic payment services, such as papal because Serbia, unless you know one of the five countries, unfortunately, in which the paint fails, and that no one really knows the real reason. I ask the question, because I have learned that a huge number of citizens and citizens of Serbia are failing precisely because of the lack of beeps and similar services, that they are doing their business on the Internet normally and in the legal frameworks. Therefore, I ask a clear and unequivocal response in the Rules of Procedure as foreseen by the current information, which is officially and semi-officially, both from the NBS and the Ministry of Finance, are confusing and contradictory and raises suspicion that someone in charge of enabling the electronic business market is not able to do his job. I believe otherwise, and I believe that the answer will be both in favour of the NBS and in favour of the Ministry of Finance, and most importantly that it will benefit all those who operate on the internet in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60789	Does any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward to take advantage of their right to Article 286(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If so, please sign into the electronic system. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we will continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: National Assembly President Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, MP Milos Radulović, MP Nikola Krpić, MP of the people, Đuro Peric. Notification of the invited to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, called for the sittings to be attended by Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Svetlana Markanovic, adviser to the cabinet of vice-presidents in the government. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoranć Krasić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Pošurica, Gojko Radović, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Boris Šormazić, Momo Čalović, Vjerica Radetojko Obradović, Nebojta Popović, Nebojša Ranjelović, Zoran Ostoić, Bojan Čurić, Marija Bjavić, Milo Šurić, Miložar Buh, Gorač Buh, Gordan Pop-Lazić, Gordan Pop-Lažić, Žalić, Žarštarštarić, Mirić, Mirović, Drag, Dragnaktar Žarović, Mirović, Dragažar Žarović, Žarnović, Žarnović, Žarović, Žarović, Žarić, Žardić, Žarić, Žarić, Žarštić, Žarić, Žardić, Žarić, Žarić, Žarić, Žarić, Ž. You have received the Report of the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted as well as the Report of the Legislative Committee on certain amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Before I give my word to the first interested MP and to the amendment to Article 1. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working even after 18.00 hours, that the break will be given at the usual time at 14.00 hours, and that our work today will end when we have completed the search in the details of the agenda point which has just been opened, given that we have 142 amendments and that every amendment, according to the Rules of Procedure, has two minutes to explain the amendment and that we have time at the disposal of parliamentary groups as well as the time of authorised representatives of 15 minutes, it is necessary to extend the work beyond 18.00 hours and until the end in detail. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60790	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this 1st member and he's in fact defining the subject matter of this law. It seems to me that the promoter has given quite a narrow formula and we have tried to clarify it, because it is not only the right of public property that is governed by this law in the opinion of the SNS, it is also the bearer of public property and it is the subject of public property that is defined through this whole bill, and it seems to us that our proposal, which is clearly defined, is this subject of the regulation of this law that is more complete and should have more understanding by the promoter, but it has not been and we hope that there will be more understanding in the vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60791	Anyone else want a word? A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60792	In view of these introductory members, as I said, we are not defined by the law itself, and this other member refers to only 3 forms of public property. We think that this is a very tight member and the title above this article itself, and that it is not fully defined whether there are any other forms of public property in the Republic of Serbia and whether this member will influence that the law in some of its parts is insufficiently applicable or useful in practice, some problems, because there have been a lot of wandering in the design of this law, and given that public property implies a very broad leprosy and we felt that there was a need to redefine space for some new forms of property that could arise and we submitted this amendment, for which, as for the first, there was no understanding by the promoters.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60793	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 3rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momo Colaković submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60794	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, I have filed an amendment to Article 3 in agreement with the Deputy Prime Minister and the State Secretary, and these MPs have been corrected. I'm asking the vice president to come forward about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60795	The President-in-Office, the MPs, first of all, I would like to say that the Government will accept this amended amendment and perhaps comment, since 1945, everywhere in Europe and in Serbia, on different social circumstances, of course and politically, various funds and various elements of mandatory social security have been formed. We can say unequivocally that this is one of the greatest achievements since World War II on our continent. It is very clear that these social insurance organisations are all over the place, under great financial pressure. He's got two big causes. The first and biggest demographics, almost everywhere without exceptions, and even in our society, our country, natural growth is negative and our country loses 0.5% of the population every year, and there is a lot of talk about it and there should be even more to it, but one effect is that Serbia, like other countries of Europe, must be very responsible for accessing the pension system reform system. With the expectation of citizens, and with what is a little harder to explain, the trend of rising prices everywhere in the world for medicines and medical equipment, we have, above all, an increase in health care costs and that is a question that we cannot avoid and that is a question for any government in Serbia in the next two or three decades. Finally, unfortunately, when we look at the third aspect and this is an aspect of protection against unemployment, there is an acute problem at this point and it is everywhere in Europe, even in our country. I mean, this provision was in the previous law, so there's no reason it doesn't exist here. To be aware of one fact, this is that the agreement that existed in the triangle of government, employers and trade unions must continue to work to ensure the financial sustainability of these systems. This is not a question of the good or bad will of any government, it is a matter of demographic tendencies, the fact that in the era of globalisation we are inevitably expected to be further fiscalized by the social protection system. In clearer words, the increasing amount of tensions the health care issues, such as today's case and unemployment, will come from the budget, wanted someone to admit it or not. We can talk about it and a lot of demagogy can be said here in one direction or another. This is our reality, and it is the fact that the government accepts that the property, the organisation of mandatory social security, is theirs, but we need to be aware that in the future and these assets and these rights will become more and more effective, and everything under the pressure of globalisation that allows, as far as the burden of net wages, whether for pensions, for health or for unemployment, we have this maximum which gives us competition that is not in Europe, but from Asia and other continents. That is why no matter who is the finance minister, no matter what the government is for the next ten years, will go one step at a time into fiscalisation. It can't, and it doesn't have any effect on the functioning of mandatory social security organisations, or on their assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60796	I am asking the Deputy Prime Minister for the Parliament's procedure just to make it clear whether, as a representative of the motion, he accepts an amendment with an amendment submitted by MP Momo Colakovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60797	Madam Chairman, I did it. I made it clear that the government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60798	It was said he would accept, I apologize. Before I move on to the next amendment, just to remind myself that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised, MP Đuro Peric, PUPS, MP Zoran Kasalovic, SPS-JS parliamentary groups and SRS MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. If any of the MPs want to have the authority of one of their representatives, please inform us of this so that we can inform the National Assembly. I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal for a law on public property, and we have highlighted this in principle, is almost impossible to correct with well-intentioned amendments, because when this law appears in the procedure, to this day, new amendments are coming in, which is certainly a business law, and we do not dispute with anyone's right to propose an amendment, because that is the job of the Members of Parliament, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia. To remind ourselves that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted its amendments to this law to nearly 1/3 of its members, because they did not have an agreement, and the law must be put on the agenda, it must be voted on, because it is an EU order. Now, your internal problems in the ruling coalition are solved through the most sensitive thing, which is public property, or state property. The law is, the concept of law is bad and harmful. This law is, ladies and gentlemen, a legal framework for the bulging of separatism in the AP Vojvodina. As much as you try to distract yourself from it, it's unfortunately a state of fact. This morning we could hear that the fate of this law is still unknown, whether you will provide a majority of the assembly or not to continue the Prime Minister, Mrko Cvetkovic is talking to Nenad Canak, because Nenad Canak has some amendments that are in the interest of Vojvodina. Well, I guess this law, Mr. Djelic, is in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, in the constitutional frameworks of the Republic of Serbia. We are already making some in this debate and you are clearly showing separatist aspirations when it comes to public property. Then you're covering, I don't know by giving a piece of property to local self-government, which is also very problematic in terms of attitudes and concepts of the SRS programme. So the fundamental problem is what you will do under this law in the AP Vojvodina, as if you had no experience with the AP Kosovo and Metohija, which you have otherwise singled out of this law in addition to all the problems that exist there and which could well be covered by this law and if it were all state property what you are predicting here is that you are tampering with the province and the property of local self-government then you could otherwise talk to international representatives and the UN when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Resolution 1244 does not mean what you are predicting by this law, Mr. Djelic. A very harmful and dangerous law and Serbian citizens should hear it and should know it. Article 6 says – anyone who decides on matters in public property that he uses or manages is obliged to act as a good host and is responsible for it in accordance with the law. We don't think this is a good formulation. We've given, in our opinion, a much more precise solution. We said public property funds were used in accordance with the law, nature and purpose of these funds. You say you can't accept the amendment because the proposed solution is more appropriate. You know, when MPs submit an amendment to you and if you don't accept the amendment, we expect you to say really some particular reason and argument why you don't accept the amendment. We gave you an argument, and you say it's more appropriate. Now, whether on the basis of our amendment, or your member, it is in any case expected to be domestically and responsibly handled by means of public property. Now, Mr. Minister, you're trying, answering the questions of the MPs who are being brought up during the public debate, here's the third day you're with the MPs today, but you haven't answered a single fundamental question, we expect you to answer specific questions today during the debate and during these days we're talking about a law in particular. Don't tell us a story. We have your stories on every television channel, in every media, printed and electronic. Your story is unargumented. Your story is - I'm telling you a story. We want the Deputy Prime Minister to answer specific questions. We want the government to finally seriously advocate the interests of Serbia's and Serbia's citizens in general. If you're talking about household behavior with funds in public property, you were talking about how local self-government should be owned by municipalities in principle. Mr. Djelic, we really don't know what that means to you. Does this mean that some good host of yours is going to judge that the municipality can operate in a park, under some tent, and that he's going to sell the building to a tycoon or sell it to a bar or don't know what? Why does it bother you that what really belongs to the state of Serbia is state property? The fact that the Constitution, which you are calling upon, provides for the adoption of this law and foresees the form of property, is not a distraction, Mr Djelic, that what it really is is a state property remains a state property, and that the law regulates the way of use and property by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, KIM and local self-government. You're saying that you want domestically, in accordance with this law, the users or owners of this public property to behave. Mr. Djelic, how many locations are the Government of the Republic of Serbia located? At 90 locations, the government of the Republic of Serbia is situated in the most elite facilities. Is that household business? At 400,000 square metres, officials of the government of the Republic of Serbia sit. It is truly a miracle how you scattered around Belgrade ever meet. That's why it's no surprise that even such important decisions as this law are made in phone sessions. Who in this traffic mess can pick you up in one place when you're divided into 90 locations? Mr. Djelic, until you came to power, until you first set fire to this building, is it household business, that this building of the assembly was burned and robbed, and today we're sitting in two buildings? Is that housework, too? Isn't one facility enough to function in the National Assembly? You're making double expenses, you're good hosts, and when it comes to the government not twice, but 90 times the cost of being in 90 facilities, and it comes to a half-empty Serbian Palace where all the competent state authorities could settle. Is that household business, Mr. Djelic? I remind you that, before you came to power in that famous "buldozer revolution", the government of Serbia with all ministries used two buildings, Germany's 9th and Germany's 22-24 and no one was close, but at that time it was in the interest of Serbia and Serbia's citizens, in constitutional frameworks, and not as you do today, and what you create by this law conditions for the expansion of separatism in the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60800	Seven minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Before I ask if anyone else wants a word, for a stenogram, I failed to read with the amendment to Article 3 which was submitted by the Government that the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment and that the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone else want a word in search of the particulars of the amendments to Article 6, which was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radet? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60801	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Djelic, in principle debate, we pointed out that the essence of this law is not only property, to change the titlemaker, and that the property now headed to the Republic of Serbia becomes the property of a unit of local self-government, autonomous province and all those whose law allows it. The bottom line is that property is increasing over time. In the spirit of this, we have proposed, since Article 6 provides that anyone who decides on public property must act as a good host, a solution that exists in most developed countries, which is that one level of government cannot reduce the value of the property during its term of office. It's the only way to ensure that the property is managed properly. You did not accept the amendment because, in your explanation, you said that the law correctly defined responsibility for deciding matters in public property. In a way that we can read the law, reading these solutions, there is only a Article 6 that says that it will be considered as a good host. If that's enough, then why doesn't the Republic of Serbia have a list of assets. The law says there should be a list of assets. Then why isn't there, who's responsible for it? The second thing is, why don't you follow the fiscal rules because there are fiscal rules in the Budgetary System Act. How could you adopt budget rebalancing if he directly violates fiscal rules? Is that a good host then? The third thing, to give another example, if the Law on the Budgetary System and the Public Procurement Act is respected, how is it possible that a state body or a public undertaking owes money to anyone if, under the Budgetary System Act, you have to put any public procurement into the annual budget? In order to initiate the procedure, you must have the funds provided in your account. If that is the case, if the Budgetary System Act is respected and the Public Procurement Act is respected, then nothing that is related to the State can owe no one a single dinar. The state is the biggest debtor in Serbia. Now you're saying that what the law says, that the state will be a responsible person, a good host, that it's responsible. Well, that's not enough. You have to specify exactly what are the conditions that need to be met and how they will manage that property in order to make sure that it is truly a good host.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60802	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60803	The same thing, in order to be sure that this property will not be destroyed, that property must be taken into account and what this law does not say is how this property will be changed when the owner changes how the financing of that property will be provided. At this point, there are laws that allow the Republic of Serbia's budget to receive adequate revenues to finance the maintenance of complete assets. How will local self-government with serious financial problems, to which the government of the Republic of Serbia has owed 50 billion dinars over the past few years, in what way will they be able to care for all this property that becomes the titlemaker in a few days? If no solutions are provided that the administration provides for this member, then they will only be paper owners, and that property will continue to fail. I don't think that's the interest of this law, not above all, of the citizens of Serbia. You, of course, rejected the amendment, because it's quite clear that the idea is that only in the public books in which ownership is changed by the owner, and that everything remains the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60804	Anyone else want a word? The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60805	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Djelic, this is a key question for us that speaks about the character of the law itself and in a very clear way to the members of the 9th and 10th. The government completely disproves the argument with which you have performed here, explaining this law, with the ambition to convince us that it is a major step towards decentralisation and if this law affirms a form of regulation of relations within a state that is completely different from the way we lived in the previous period. The key question for us, Mr. Djelic, is, in fact, who has the right to property of natural resources in this country and who has the right to property of good social importance and social interest? That's much more important than how many miles of railroads are going to be able to make one of us tomorrow and in what way? The point, Mr. Djelic, is that the government's argument, which you rejected our amendment, is wrong. You are quoting a member of the Constitution that does not give you the right to reject our initiative, which treats natural resources in the territory of the APV as a public property of APV. That argument that rejected the amendment is absolutely wrong. It explains that the property issue has been resolved by Article 87. The constitution in such a way that natural wealth is exclusively the property of the Republic of Serbia. Article 87, Mr. Djelic, is very precise. It's a disaster, but it's also very precise. Natural wealth, a good for which the law stipulates that they are of general interest and property used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, are in state property. There may be other things and rights within the state's assets in accordance with the law. Mr. Djelic, we do not put an equal sign between public property at the disposal of the republican administration and the state. Property rights are regulated by other laws. There is no concern that the province administration of natural resources will abuse or treat them in a harmful way, worse than the Republic administration does. We can support this with concrete examples. See what happens to mineral wealth in Vojvodina. Eight hundred million dollars of Gazprom oil has taken out the previous year in the space of Vojvodina's oil and gas worth $800 million, with a mine rent of 3%. There is no country on the planet with such a low tax rate – rents. Is there another way to regulate our relationship? The one that we need to really be a modern society. Natural wealth cannot be alienated. Is that so? They're here and they're ours. It's just a question of who's going to deal more effectively with these natural treasures. We think that the republican administration has too much to do and, obviously, as many people as there are capable people in it, I don't want to talk about your abilities and incompetence at all, let's say that the best sits in that republican government, it has so much work that it itself can't end effectively everything that is set before it as a challenge. Partnerships are needed. We need a modern Vojvodina. Here's a way to start developing something like that. The constitution is no obstacle to that. I'm just talking about the amendment. If the government had said -- there is no political willingness to transfer natural resources in the area of the APV into public property of the province because we have a problem in Kosovo, because we are thus pressured by criticism of the works of the political public, which it believes we are giving too much to Vojvodina, then it would be a political argument and we could compromise on it. Among other things, in the situation in which the ruling coalition is located, we support this law because it draws us closer to the only goal that we consider important, since without it we cannot change anything in the country, which is the EU. Mr. Djelic, there's an unsustainable argument from the government. Article 87. The constitution is no obstacle to the adoption of our amendment, which requires natural wealth in the territory of the AP, to have the AP, because they are treated as the public property of the province in accordance with the laws of this country, no different. These laws prevent any possibility of abuse and the decision we insist on, I believe that it would only allow for more efficient management of natural resources and give the necessary motivation in the Vojvodina space for that kind of policy and social change, without which Serbia can neither be transformed. This is how we antagonise the republican administration with the province, even within the ruling coalition there are obvious antagonisms, although we are still talking about a common goal. It is absolutely unacceptable for us, and I think there is still room for you to accept this amendment. Dealing with that public property is prescribed by law. There are courts in this country that control whether we act in accordance with the law or not. And that's quite enough. Now let's make one such step, it'll be better for everyone. We invite you to vote for this amendment, though we know how different this is than anything that the ruling coalition has quite confronted. This is much more serious than the requirement that someone has the right to have rail infrastructure. As far as we're concerned, the arguments on which these demands were built may be arguments that we're polymize about, but this is the essence. The right to have natural resources, the right to have goods of general interest, that is something of general importance, that is something that is the essence of any government. The state is not equal to a republican administration. This makes the kind of difference that we all deny and do not want between the province and Serbia. Does this mean that the province is not a state, part of the state of Serbia? A wording like that, yes. We think it's worse. The Republic Administration has a different kind of work in a modern country and we want to talk to you about it, and we're opening up the possibility that by accepting this amendment, we're already starting to do it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60806	Seven minutes have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60807	Mrs. Komic, an effective radical solution. Let's shut down the AP, we don't have any problems. It's all settled. But let me go back to this amendment. I must commend the government for changing Article 10. Why? Because it made the necessary difference between goods of general interest and goods in general use. So, the waterway, the defenses, the embankments, and the markets, the public roads, etc. etc. It's a kind of definition of things, a definition of immovableity. I'm coming back now, Mrs. Comic, to a member of the 9th and natural wealth. Why am I going back to natural wealth? It's impossible in some orderly state that the holder of the right of disposal, use and management will be a few persons, but there must be one. The one, the job must work on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of all states. Who is this representative of all citizens? The Republic of Serbia with its organs. And by definition, this is state property. When the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was written, some songwriters were racing, who would rather master European terminology. Instead of using the term state property as something commonly known and widely accepted, public property is being pushed here as a kind of synonym for it. As soon as public property is inserted, "public" should mean state property in Serbia. I'm talking about the authors of the Constitution. I know who wrote these provisions, they're what I'm talking about. He planted you with cowardly eggs, so that now every free-minded individual would say, public property is not state property. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, words -- public property -- must be interpreted as state property. If they were interpreted in another way, it would be social property. You've cleared up with communism. When you cleaned up, you and Micun started to be clear. If we're talking about state property, and we need to talk about state property, then let me remind you of something, Mr. Djelic, which exists as a standard in all normal civilized states that hold to the notion of a state and which elements should meet some territory, people, etc. That's the lack of this whole concept of your law, Mr. Djelic. The state property implies one holder of the right to have, use and management as the original holder of that right, and he can decide to move or move to use someone and can decide who will manage, above all, to think about maintenance, but the right to availability is only in the hands of the Republic of Serbia. Is the right to dispose of natural resources? Can the state deny the right to dispose of natural resources? He can't. Remember, he can't. It's an exclusive. If the state of the Republic of Serbia, through the authorities of the state government, does not have the right to dispose of natural resources, we are not a state. Excuse me, please, what's called AP Vojvodina, AP KiM, units of local self-government, that's not state power, not even when you trust them with some government affairs. You've made public property a social property. You can't give up Tito and Cardell at all. That's what you started with – the public service of European Serbia. It's state television, it can't be Alibego's. The competition with the state is private. Natural resources are in state property. The state can allow someone to use natural resources under legal conditions, but it's not this law. And the markets and the streets and the roads and the defenses against the floods, and everything must be state property. Why? Because the protagonists of this variant of public property forget only one thing – within property there are rights, but there are obligations, and you are obsessing about rights, and you forget about obligations. He who has property also has many obligations in connection with this property, to guard her, to keep her safe, to prevent her from jeopardizing other immovable property from being threatened with some real estate that she owns. I don't want to talk any further. Here is the system of how to fold and how much easier it will be in Vojvodina citizens if those who pull them are no longer in Belgrade but in Novi Sad. When he pulls Cvetkovic, it's disastrous, and when he pulls Nenad Canak, it's kind of mellow. What's the principle difference? We've tried amendments to prevent both variants. Public property according to this law regardless of what matters must be interpreted as state property. We can talk about other provisions regarding use, about governance. Please, the lease is not available. I don't know who learned that? For 15 years, we've been talking about leases as something that's the right thing to do. The right to be available means to acquire and alienate. This isn't about all the funds, it's not about the money, you've left it to other laws. Absolutely no amendment, nor does the bill violate the basic principle – the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia are state property. That is why we have called to draw your attention and to reduce this experience of public property and provisions of the Constitution where it is said that it can have public property local self-government or AP. No one in the interpretation of our Constitution will slow you down, but we need to define what public property will be. Here, we say, when it comes to this provision on local self-government and APda have public property, they can have, but there will be no natural wealth, there will be no good of general interest, there will be no good in general use. You'll have chairs, pens, computers, buses, trucks, containers, but you'll have your own, so we know what you're like, you'd sell the square, like in that Italian movie, when that guy was selling the Di Trevi fountain to tourists. He presented himself as the owner of the Di Trevi fountain and told tourists – just give 2,000 marks, buy this whole thing and pick up all the coins they threw out in love. That's Nenad Canak. That's Bojan Pajtić. Discuss with the Capital Investment Fund, and you'll see what the right to have on the money and on the rights of the securities of value. Then you can imagine what will happen to the immovables. Why are you doing this? Well, he recorded some immovableity, but he's got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60808	It's been used 10 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60809	Mrs. Komic, I don't think we can discuss such large issues, bypassing the fact that responsibility for all this is within the ruling coalition. You, Mr. Djelic, having taken the Constitution as the basis of your law, should respond to Article 12, which very clearly defines the notion of state authority as a government limited to the rights of citizens to province autonomy and local self-government. No one will take Fruska Gora from Vojvodina. We just think that it will be more responsible to deal with this Frusko Gora when the authorities of this country are taking care of it as their property, which is the authorities – the province parliament, the province government, or if we talk about goods of general social importance, let's say, the City of Novi Sad, with its City Greater and with its City Assembly. Look what's going on today. Because of the complicated relations in the ruling coalition, you end the Ministry of Energy and there is no longer anyone who can effectively respond to the problem "Tent" and "Kopova" in Kolubara, the problem "Kostolac", such as the exploitation of mineral wealth in this country and the unacceptable criteria, and I have told you an example of $800 million per year of income from NIS through the exploitation of oil and gas in the Vojvodina area. What happens to Kickindo once that gas's out? Is money invested in kickind so people can live without these sites and without NIS tomorrow? What happens if someone closes the refinery and goes somewhere else? That's what this is about. It is absolutely unacceptable to separate the state and identify the state with the republican administration, and to declare all of this to foreign institutions. That's absolutely not true. The only way to solve our problems is to start facing the causes of our situation seriously. Vojvodina is today one of the poorest areas in Serbia. The poorest municipalities are in the Vojvodina area. Less than 20% of the farmland is in the Vojvodina area. The Danube-Tisa-Dunav canals have been destroyed. It's not the roads of the second row, it's the highway and corridor that's a disgrace. Property relations are not solved only by the Public Property Act. There are also very precise laws that define property rights. If someone violates the law, then they will be prosecuted in accordance with the law in front of the court, but because of the assumption that everyone is interested in harming this country, in which they live, with their families, with their constituents, with our fellow citizens, we are passing laws to fight them, and not solve the problems that have been caused by the chaos we have been in for too long, then we are destined for failure. The first step is to bring people closer to the core of the problem, if we expect these people to help us solve it. Let the province administration or the city of Belgrade take over solving problems that are serious, which are fundamental. If the starting position is the position in which we have found ourselves by applying the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia, which the government of the 1990s has brought to disprove local self-government or province, then we are the hostages of that continuity that will lead us to a dead end, as it has dragged us to Kosovo. That's true. We can understand the political arguments. They should be the subject of our debate, whether there are majority for such a policy or not in the ruling coalition and what is the price. We are not prepared to sacrifice the European future of the country, however compromised it is at this point, by tripping ourselves to one of the two laws that are a condition for obtaining candidacy. It is important that Serbia gets candidate status. There is no generation during our history that has succeeded so close to bringing the country closer to modern and Western Europe. It's our responsibility. Whatever the obstacle is, we need to solve it rationally. If this is a law on public property, we must not take any chances on the subject of public property law. If this is Kosovo, we must not do so on the subject of Kosovo. Or at least we have to solve everything else, and then we see it as a serious problem that requires a common response. But natural wealth cannot be monopolized in the way it has been the case so far, and this is what continues. That's what's wrong. The Law on Public Property only makes sense in those elements where part of public property, local self-government and provinces become good and those assets that the Republic has agreed to use in the meantime. And that's that positive shift in this situation, and that's some result. But it's much less than what we need and what we want. And the argument is wrong, absolutely wrong, and that argument doesn't stand. If it is permitted within Article 10 to correct relations with the good of general importance and those of general interest, so if the path of the second order can, then we have already formed a principle in which the question is now just how far we can go. But it is a topic for a political conversation that should lead to a reform policy that will have concrete answers to a whole series of problems that exist between us. Among other things, the antagonism, unnecessary, between Belgrade and Novi Sad, which is not only present among different parties but also within the parties themselves. Our political life is so pointless when we analyze the relationship to Vojvodina's autonomy that it is compromising for anyone who is its actor. And these two romanticisms that deprive the Vojvodina of every right to exist, and the other by which everything is valuable in Vojvodina, sees exclusively as the consequence of internal relations that will be regulated in a new way in Vojvodina. Both, in our opinion, are wrong, but these are facts. The problem is that this law will not eliminate the causes of our current conflicts and that the problems we face because we leave this problem unresolved tomorrow will be even greater. That should be said very clearly now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60810	Six minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60811	I've volunteered as an applicant for the amendment. I would understand these remarks concerning the text itself and the contents of the Constitution that came from the parties that were against him. We have come to a rather paradoxical situation, that here practically the last dam and those rare good or open provisions of the Constitution come from parties or parties that were practically the only one in Serbia against its adoption. In a constitutional referendum, for which I remind you that on the territory of Vojvodina, if we are already talking about it, he did not get the necessary majority, this two-day haranga, a two-day vote, the execution of the late Patriarch on television and the threat that Ramush Haradinaj and his terrorists will celebrate in Pristina if the referendum fails. In such an atmosphere, there were not enough voters in Vojvodina to adopt it. It is not just a question of supporters of LSV and LDP, there were many more people who did not vote. So, people who voted for your party a few months later, Mr. Djelic. I would also understand this kind of concern for state property if in the meantime we hadn't handed over part of our natural resources practically in possession of another country. So, when we discuss what is public and what is state property, it certainly can't be a natural wealth in the property of another country, and today it is, above all, in the territory of Vojvodina when it comes to oil, natural gas and other mineral raw materials. You'll say it's not formal. It's not formal, it's essential. On the oil and gas sites in Vojvodina, all we have left is naked property. It's like having that protected tenant or tenant in your apartment, you're a formal owner, but there's nothing you can do with that apartment and it doesn't have any practical market value for you. What can the Republic of Serbia decide today to influence the use of oil and gas from Vojvodina, with the protection of the position of the Russian Federation in the contract, with the debt of damages in each situation? If we decide today to raise the mining rent, even at the Romanian level, of 12.5-13%, not to remain at this 3%, so that the Kikinda and other municipalities and the entire AP Vojvodina will not suffer such losses as they are suffering today, what does the Republic of Serbia have of it today? What does it have to do with the formal owner of the underground warehouse "Banatski dvor" as an object, as a natural wealth or good in general use? He has the right to buy gas from another minority owner, at a price that is 30% or 40% higher than the market or from the one given to other countries and proudly hold a board on that underground warehouse until one day, when the Russian side has mercy on completing it. In such a situation, I do not believe that bossing by the province's administration would be bad or that it would be less in the interest of both Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia than that of the Russian Federation or Gazprom Njeft. They protect interest, but, of course, their country and their government, which is their majority owner. But it can't go on forever. In Croatia, procedures are being conducted because management rights have been handed over under suspicious circumstances in a situation where "Mol" would sooner or later, otherwise, according to his contract. In Serbia, this assembly has ratified by a vast majority of the votes of the MPs an international treaty that bypasses the law, including this law and its members who speak of the rights and conditions for concessions or the right to hire. Unfortunately, Mr. Djelic, you were in this awkward situation to defend the law together with Minister Skundric, or ratification of the treaty, by representing him, among other things, as another step on the European path. I believe you knew back then that it wasn't like that, but we have to take these things into analysis when we're talking about the position of the Duke. I do not believe that the new Yogurt Revolution in the Assembly will save the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia this time, nor do I believe that it can be done by the President of the Republic, who threatens not to sign a law on public property if it goes just one step further than those rights that the AP Vojvodina has today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60812	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60813	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Djelic, dear colleagues and colleagues, only one brief addition to my colleagues' presentation and consideration of what we heard, regarding our amendment. Our amendment is clear, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and the Legislative Committee has unanimously declared that. I'd just add that the term "public" and the term "state" are neither linguistic nor legal. Is that how it should be in the Constitution, we can discuss it, but the fact is that such constitutional solutions were voted by fellow radicals and were involved in all anomalies of the process of adopting such a constitution. However, it was at a time when their boss was Tomislav Nikolic, so they may have been, but that's their problem. As far as constitutionality and legality are concerned, our amendment is clear. As for all other attributes of our amendment and its usefulness, it's also clear. I thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60814	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60815	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, we have also said in principle that this law is one big nothing and that Serbian citizens will not benefit from it at all, but will have fundamentally enormous damage. If that were true, it tells us that the government itself, after the adoption of the draft proposal, turned into a bill, 15 days ago, submitted the bill to this Assembly and delivered 18 amendments to the Government on a proposal seven days before this. Meanwhile, we've received 30 more amendments, which are likely to be adopted. So half of the legal provisions are proposed for a change. You see how unserious that is. Why? Twelve years is your promise to reconstruct, reform your property. The pre-election promise in 2000 was that you would make a reconstruction in the area of property. The Constitution has obliged you to do so by the end of 2008. Three years later, back-to-back. After all these promises, after the constitutional obligation, numerous meetings, commissions, alignments, seminars, professional counselling, etc., here, we get something that's twice as naked. We have absolutely nothing from him. Inapplicable. It will be even more inapplicable the moment you adopt individual amendments that will be mutually in collegiate, and whoever needs to apply it will be disabled to apply it. When we talk about application, no one here mentioned the Property Directorate. The Property Directorate is an administrative authority and must act in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. He's an authority that conducts proceedings against the government by the users. Deputy Prime Minister, you mentioned a case where you said the Directorate didn't follow the law. What did you do to make the Directorate act according to the law? The general administrative procedure law is clear. It is a system law which obliges state authorities and all those acting in the field of administrative law. There are two deadlines, one of 30 days, and the other of 60 days. None of these deadlines are handled. What have you done to appeal to the responsibility of those who do not act? You've been in power for 12 years. That Directorate in this or that form has worked throughout this period. Is the Director responsible or is the Government responsible? Was the government aware, in any form since 2000, of this situation. We heard here from representatives of individual parties in power that in the meantime several billion euros were denied to the provinces and local communities. Were you not aware of that after the victory of October 5th? Who's to blame for going into the Republic's budget a few billion? You held the power, you did it. Who's responsible? The opposition is responsible, which now wants to make a constructive law, a applicable law and, within its political objectives, do what is the position of a particular political party. The position and strategic interest of the SRS to make use of property, to benefit the Republic, the province and local self-government, by being the strategic objective of the SRS to bring the autonomous province down, given that it is communistly constructed, as such it needs to be brought to a protocol level, and to strengthen local self-government. You are now inauguration through this law something that will be least applicable. In particular, I'm going to tell you a few sentences about the material-legal regulation you've proposed here. First of all, we don't know what public property is, there's no definition. You don't have a term here. You have unified the legal rule of the bill and you have certain normative, sublegal acts that oblige you to a certain standard when you make the law. The conceptr has to be somewhere in the beginning. He's not here, but he's in every other member. When you define public property, you talk about the subject of public property – natural wealth, and define them, etc., and say, "if it is not regulated by other law." Then each member - either is governed by a special law or if it is not contrary to that law, etc. Then we have one cheese that's been pierced with multiple holes and then it's one of the curves from which the administrative and other authorities that apply these provisions will be able to apply it. What else does it matter? The DRI warned you and made it clear to you that what is the basic task of the Property Directorate, it is the register, and the registry of it exists. I asked around the Department of Catastrians. According to their data, 80% of the former state property, now public property, is not properly divided and entered in the immobilities books. There's an even worse situation in mobility. It's our practice. So do we know who's using that property? We don't know, there's no register, there's no record. Do we know the real value of this property? We don't know. From this ignorance, those who enjoy the fruit tomorrow will profit, for they know what the real value is or who buy it. This law is passed precisely by allowing privatisation, alienation, or some other form of availability through other certain laws. Then there will be expressions of those who have money, and they have tycoons and they will take it. To return to a concrete amendment. In Article 9(2) of the SRS proposal, which I have said in this amendment, it is that the word "using" is replaced by "uses". It's perfectly natural and normal, because in legal terms it's been "use" for many years in use, but "use" is unacceptable to stand here because you're talking about "use" in Section 2 on "use", in Section 3 you're talking about "use", in point 4. about "use". You need to level the legal norms. That's perfectly normal, that's understood. You cannot use two identical terms. If the term "use" is common, if he's in legal use, then it's appropriate to use it. From the point of view of the SRS are unacceptable both in legal and economic terms and in economic terms, and in a normative sense, the provisions of this law and they will in practice create huge problems and we will all have damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60816	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, the Republic of Serbia, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently following part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Present are: Trajković Željko, Baltic Rajko, Jelić Milan, Frgić Ivica, Mihailović Jovica, Dokmanac Milorad, Damjanović Sreten, Štefanek Davor, Maksimović Aleksandar, Bulatović Goran, Balo Petar, Franjković Dejan, Spasic Milos, Nemes Mate, Nemesh Viktor, Pavović Nemanja, Gazdrag Kristian. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could use the wrestlers here in the benches to deal with the Serbian government, but they are also representatives of all other wrestlers. We welcome them for that. And we are representatives of the citizens of Serbia and we speak here on their behalf. (President: National MPs, if you will do my job, I will do yours. I'd love to. (President: I don't believe it, since you won't pass the amendment. Please, about the agenda. Since I was in your shoes, it wouldn't be too hard for me. (President: It would be, believe me. About the amendment. ) On behalf of the SRS, the amendment submitted a logical trail of the previous amendment. Unfortunately, we have failed, and it seems to me that we do not have an adequate talker, to convince the government's representative that the law is absolutely unacceptable, that it is not consistent, that it is written from the hills of the valley, that it does not know what is what, that adequate legal terminology is not used. How can we now talk to Boza Djelic, who is taking us to Europe on a fast train that this term does not exist in our legal system, because it is understood that if you use something to make use of it for free. It's common. If you had introduced a term here, we'd probably know what you meant. We're always afraid there's something behind this. Believed to be hiding something, only no one will tell us what, and since we know what you are, we are warning in time and trying to make the law clear and enforceable, that those who, after the adoption of this law, have to rule under this law, know what to do. From the position of those to whom the law applies we submit amendments, but unfortunately there is not much understanding about such a thing. You have an understanding when Bojan Kostreš comes to you and talks to you and gives you arguments that are absolutely unacceptable, and you have no understanding for us when we give you arguments that are acceptable. Then give us an answer – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more appropriate. I think you're dressed up today, say, for this gym, someone might think you're dressed inappropriately, you should put on a bow tie, but that's not the language we need to talk about, but you have to give, at least here in the explanation you had to tell us what you were thinking under this use. When Kostreš says – we have pointed out that over the past few years the province has built more than 1,500 kilometers of roads in Vojvodina and it is logical that the roads belong to Vojvodina, it is acceptable to you, it is like decentralisation to you, and you do not wonder whose pockets it is made from. The constitution clearly states, even the Constitution says, that we are not talking about the budget and the Budgetary System Act how much the percentage of the funds go into the Vojvodina budget and how it is charged and filled with all Serbian citizens and that the province has not built it, neither has the Republic built it, but the citizens of Serbia have built anything in this country, but someone has decided where, when and how much to work. There's a vision of what to do, there's a program, there's something the government calls its policy in all these segments. I would really appreciate it if, not because of us, but because of those who are going to apply this law tomorrow, you would have to be responsible here now to give us an adequate explanation of what it means that natural wealth can obtain concessions or the right to use, or use, in accordance with a special law. What's this special law gonna tell us? He'll probably tell us then, maybe he will, and maybe he won't, what's taking advantage of it, but then why is that even standing here? You could have erased that, which is why we asked it to be deleted. It is perfectly acceptable for you to adopt that amendment now, and to see what this special law will then regulate. Maybe it'll be a dispute, maybe some when they tell us what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60818	It was used three minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Đura Muchenski. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60819	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, I have submitted an amendment to this bill. Although my colleagues in the previous discussion have said that this law is bad, that this law is big nothing, I don't think so. I think this law is good and I say in advance that I am giving my voice to this legislative proposal because it better defines property than it is so far, but I am going to try, and I am not going to blackmail my voice by making a contribution, or by voting for this law. I'd like you to consider this amendment of mine and accept it, because I think I'm going to be able to fix something in this legal solution. My amendment refers to Article 9 where natural resources are defined and the payment of compensation for natural resources. In my amendment, it says that the right to use geothermal soil properties via heat pumps for the purposes of heating and cooling of individual objects or complex facilities has the owner of land without compensation to the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the unit of local self-government. As a state, we have taken international commitments from the energy saving area and as a state we need to take measures to stimulate renewable energy sources. As no charge is paid for the use of solar energy in solar collectors, such as no charge for using wind energy in the windwinds, no compensation should be paid for the use of energy at heat pumps. For those of you who don't know what heat pumps are, here's one brief piece of information to know what this is about. Heat pumps are a device used to heat houses, i.e. residential buildings that use soil energy, and this is a renewable energy source and as such in today's time when we all witness that every day we need a large amount of energy either for cooling or for heating up buildings, one such amendment would be useful because it would establish the possibility of using that energy without compensation, not for commercial but for its own purposes. I would ask the vice president to consider this amendment and accept it. I think it would fix this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60820	It's been used 40 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60821	Dear People's MPs, this question is relevant, but it needs to be regulated in another law. In fact, the Public Property Act only needs to lay the foundations of the system, say what belongs to who, what can be sold, what can't be sold, and if it can't be sold, is there any compensation? The fee can also be zero and this is a question that will be current in the weeks to come because the government of the Republic of Serbia is preparing a new mining law currently in public debate and I believe it is available on the Internet presentation of Mr Dulic's Ministry, which is now a different name, environment, mining and spatial planning. I believe that the question as well as the question Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic spoke of earlier, which is a matter of renting and sharing that rent, we know that today there is a 50% division for the Republic, 40% for local self-government and 10% for the province, and I am sure that it will also be the subject of the debate in the weeks to come. In any case, it is a question of renewable energy sources, the optimal exploitation of our country's capacities is on the agenda and we expect this to be the subject of a big debate in this home when the mining law is proposed. To remind ourselves, our country, I can say it openly, does not charge enough for what is not renewable, and in fact there is not enough incentive for what is renewable. The result is that we, as a country far from being rich, spend six times as many units of energy on the same amount of GDP if we compare ourselves with the richest 15 EU countries. So, this is why we have not accepted this amendment, but this topic remains as alive and as being the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60822	The People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic and the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60823	Of course, if the government is willing to discuss changes in that tax policy, we also want to do so without any ambition to slow someone down in business activities in Serbia. As for us personally, every capital, including Russian, is welcome in this country if it enters, among other things it is in line with the interests of the citizens of this country. We do not think that there is a state agreement in the interests of Serbian citizens that was concluded three or four years ago between Serbia and the Russian Federation. Since this is a state agreement, those of us who are his opponents commit to the extent that we cannot act in such a way that, practically, we say the state begins the day we come to power and stops the day we come down from power. It's gonna be hard for us to step out of that living mud that we entered into with that state agreement. Which means not only the agreement of one government, but the state of Serbia. When we talked about natural resources, Mr. Djelic, it was just an illustration, that mining rent. We are confident that the province administration would never make such an arrangement, and therefore we set an example of NIS and privatisation. With the natural resources we're talking about, the titler should be, if they're in the territory of the province, the province, and the property rights, they come true with the laws that we're adopting here in parliament. Their application is being handled by other institutions that we also form here. Courts, we've implemented a judicial reform that exists, they're unique. The judiciary is unique in Serbia. So we just think it would be better if we had just stepped out of this messy position where we're confrontationing with ourselves and taking our chance to be more efficient tomorrow, among other things, because at least we've modernised our country at that level. That is the essence of our amendment, and we look forward to discussing the mining law. We think that then our society will be able to correct those mistakes most of us made a few years ago. Only this example is really sufficient, as a valid argument for our request that natural resources in their own sense belong if they are on the territory of the province. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60824	People's MP Đura Muchenski has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60825	Thank you. I see that I have an understanding of this amendment and I can accept in part an explanation of why it cannot be accepted now. I hope to have your support and this amendment will be submitted safely if it is not defined in the basic text of the Mining Act that it will have your support in doing so. The idea was to define it right here in front of the public and define it as soon as possible. For one simple reason I will give you another example that all MPs and citizens had to see and hear. These are, for example, certain taxes, as it is called in public companies, which were determined in local self-government. We really had one wide diapazone. When holes in the budget appear then the source of the funds is sought and the amount to be charged is not chosen. So we had cases that retail million amounts were determined to charge the company. It's something that shouldn't be a practice. I think we need to set some boundaries that shouldn't go beyond, and that was the idea of why I submitted the amendment, because I think this National Assembly should give absolute incentive and assistance to renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60826	MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60827	For a minute, I would just go back to this announcement of yours, if I understood correctly that there would be a change in the general tax policy, as well as questions of the mining law's mines. I'd just like to be serious and take advantage of your presence here. We have a contract with the Russian Federation which, according to what I know, provides for the following restrictions – that we cannot change fiscal and any other rules unilaterally, or without the obligation of some kind of damage or satisfaction to the Russian side, until the moment when the profits of NIS "Gasprom Njeft" reach the value they have paid for its purchase, so 400m euros. I believe that you're following it, and I'd like to know at this point what the current situation is, or what our passing time is like. How many months or years do we have to wait for that profit to come to fruition of 400 million? Last year, the profit was 165 million, I see that for the first 6 months of this year over 200 million, it is 365 and by the end of the year it will be 400th, we only have that problem that in the first year of NIS – Gazprom Njeft reported an enormous loss that is much greater than that, so I'm simply curious that the current state of this formal profit that has so far, allegedly acquired "Gasprom Njeft" from using NIS resources and when we come into the situation to operationally apply that possible increase in the rate of the mining renet. Not to come back to that situation we had in January, February, March about the double excise duties and all those problems we had to meet on the one hand and Brussels, on the other hand, Moscow, where the interests of the Serbian citizens remained third to not say the last place.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60828	One minute and 40 seconds. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60829	What's the deal, i.e. which is the agreement is that this specific treatment lasts until the investment cycle is completed, but is not related to any profit. And according to the contract it is until 2013, so from that moment on, all the provisions and all the changes that we can have in our system will apply to that economic operator.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60830	National MP Boja Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60831	I have no doubt that such formal provisions are contracts but we have had a similar provision since 1 January 2011 as the day of the full liberalisation of the market, and then indirectly resorted to the protection of the interests of the Russian party through a double excise system. On the other hand, I have to tell you that the Russian side, that is, the Russian administration of NIS "Gasprom Njefta" does not plan to carry out its investments in this way. The company's general director in Belgrade said weeks ago they gave up investments until the election ended, or the Serbian election process. So, I'm not sure that on 1 January 2013, that date, I think the Russian side will operate on who will possibly win the next elections in Serbia. I will not say in this place whether it is a violation of the sovereignty of this country or a interference in its internal relations. I think that when we have such a powerful, so-called partner that I don't tell the boss on the other side, then we should think about those limitations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60832	One minute used by the parliamentary group. On behalf of the 10th and Article 10th Amendment, the Government submitted. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 10th and 10th of the amendment, said MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60833	The criticism we had on Article 1 and Article 2 which defines the concept and subject matter of the regulation of this law also includes the amendment that we have submitted to Article 10. Because of the unclear terms, not the clear terms, of course we have problems in the individual views of this member. So let's say in paragraph 5, we have the term "other good" where it doesn't define which ones are good, and we have the fact that at the very beginning we haven't clearly defined the concepts of this law. Also in Article 6, we have some term other good, so that's pretty general, vague, too broadly set, and that's the dissatisfaction from the very beginning when it comes to the concept of this law. We have a proposal and an amendment relating to Article 10(1), where we believe that there is a mix of concepts of good general interest and good use. Thus, in general use, they are subject to a good general interest and a vague concept of public property itself. So, in that part, we intervened, and what's also a problem for us is that in this Article 10th and in Article 9, we have one part, one attitude relating to concessions. It seems to us that the subject of a concession that has been defined as something that we're going to talk about in some special law should also be made more clear in this law because it did not include good of general interest. In fact, Article 9 refers to concessions on natural resources, in Article 10 on concessions on goods in general use. There is no big difference between these terms, but to the good of general interest such as forest-water land we do not seem to be related and there is intervention of SNS,.... It seems to us that there are different rights, different legal regimes, and that all of this is very bad under the application of this law, we are afraid that since we already have so vague what we have in the state property so that by law and such ambiguities, we will further expand that problem, or we will solve it and explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60834	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Here you go, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60835	The Honorable Presidency, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The bill that I have proposed to change the first position of that member and reads: "good of general interest in public property within the meaning of this law are good in the general application and other things which are laid down by law as good of general interest" and then there goes the listing of these goods of agricultural land, forests, forest land and all other terms which have otherwise been defined in this article. The aim of this amendment is to count together in the first position all the good of general interest in public property and good in general use, and not to be particularly listed in several places in this article of the law. The government's explanation for not accepting this amendment states that the amendment to the Government has made a more precise formulation of this article, which is not true. Namely, the amendment of the Government has made certain concessions between the AP Vojvodina while we have submitted three amendments to Article 10, Mr Nenad Popovic, Mr Aleksandar Pejcic and I, which are interlinked and the meaning of these three amendments, is to clearly define the good of the general interest in public property and to define which of these goods remains in the possession of the Republic of Serbia and which in its unit of local self-government. It is saddened that the government has submitted 18 amendments to this bill, namely to amend 20% of the members of its law that it proposed only a few days before. This speaks of the government's insecureness, talks about relations within the ruling coalition, and says that for the sake of preserving authorities, they are ready to make rotten compromises to the detriment of Serbian citizens. I urge you once again to consider and accept this amendment, which really defines the good of general interest and defines the division that remains good in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, which in its units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60836	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60837	Thank you. The 10th amendment, which the Serbian government has submitted to, is regulated by the good of general interest in public property and in this position 2. Even lists what it is, what is considered to be good of general interest, and among other things along these public roads, public railways, bridges, public road tunnels, railways and public parks, border crossings are listed and administrative crossings. We have also made it clear in the principle debate, Mr. Djelic, that there is no administrative transition in the Constitution or in the Law of the Territorial Organization. I'd like to return you to that Law on Territorial Organization there writes nicely that, let's say, one county of Belgrade or Colombian or any of them make up municipalities and so on, and each of these municipalities now make up some catastrian municipalities, etc. So there's no administrative passage, where do you see it? Although we were in KIM on Friday we got there to some barbed wire, to Jarinj and Brnjak, but it can't be an administrative transition to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, unless you in this indirect way want it to be true. If the EU also dictates that this must be found here in this law, then your responsibility is indeed great for something like this. But this isn't a small oversight, look out, it's a very serious matter. There's not an alley or some public toilet in a public park, so we don't know who it is. Whose is this? Where is he? Which way is he on? Where these lawyers who prepared you this law to give you an answer, where they found in what law in our legal system administrative transition as well in general terms, and that good in general use should naturally be used by everyone. We are not dissatisfied, beware, with this amendment of yours. You've really made this a little bit more specific, this article on the 10th, and now it's a much better amendment solution. But the explanation for that amendment that you have submitted yourself, and you have given your own explanation, you have actually adjudicated your amendment, because by trying to give something, let's say, here's the AP Vojvodina, because you're only treating it and when it comes to Kosovo, you're just stating the administrative crossings and maybe you're introducing them according to Vojvodina. You say that the state roads of the second order as well in general use should be owned by the AP Vojvodina since the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is prescribed that the AP Vojovidna regulates and provides for conditions and means of protection I call on you to seriously consider this amendment, if you are not ready to say immediately, and you should be really prepared to say yes immediately, because in this law you cannot find it, nor in any law, the term 'administrative transition'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60838	From the time of the authorized representative? (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: Yes. Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60839	Thank you. Given this argument and possible interpretation, on behalf of the Government, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60840	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Balint Pastor. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Balint Pastor. Here you go, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60841	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about our submitted amendments and I will use the time of the authorised representative. Of course, I won't report to each amendment because the nature of this bill is such that it's hard to explain in two minutes what individual amendments are related to, so I'm going to try to share with a united debate all the things I have. Mr. Djelic, you have not accepted any amendments to the SVM, and there were nine. That means you don't expect us to support this bill, but I'm not going to plead on it, you seem to have another majority to pass this law. You just said, Mr. Djelic, that his amendment was not accepted because the subject of this amendment was subject to the regulation of another law. I could accept that, but you have accepted on the other hand another amendment that certainly regulates the issue that needs to be regulated by the Public Property Act, and this amendment, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, says the directors of public enterprises and agencies are named after a competition. I have to say that we absolutely agree with that solution and we have nothing against that solution, so we support the directors of public enterprises, regardless of whether it's a municipal, city, province or republican public enterprises, being named by competition, but we don't think that this solution is a place in this law. You have accepted that amendment and we have nothing against that solution, once again to underline it, but then you should not tell other MPs that their amendment has been rejected because the subject of this amendment is subject to the regulation of another law. These days there's been an impression, and that's what I was talking about last time, that the point of dispute between the SVM and the Republic Government is the question of the railway. That, of course, is not so. And last time I explained that railways are not the only point of dispute, that it's not about us pushing it to the finish line and that at all costs we want railway infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, it's about us thinking that this law, which is not passed every year, is probably passed once in a decade, at least until now it's been a practice when it comes to public property, we would like this law to predict the possibilities that, on the one hand, are sustainable, and sustainable and comprehensive can only be those solutions in the Public Property Act that allow essential decentralisation. The solutions from your bill, no matter what they improve from day to day, are not so. Last time we talked about channels. We suggested that the province be the owner of regional channels in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and all channels, and you gave us your amendment, as I said last time, reed and chess. We still believe that the province should be the owner of a channel network in the territory of Vojvodina. On the other hand, you have not accepted our amendment that referred to a solution that provides that the Republic authorities can use for free parts of buildings that will now be owned by, for example, the AP Vojvodina within 10 years. There is a slight improvement, because in the original version you suggested that it remain that way and that the republican authorities could use parts of the building or buildings of other owners by the end of the world for free. AP Vojvodina. Mr. Djelic, our rules of procedure are forbidden to present the facts of other persons' private lives, so I will remain only on the facts that relate to my life. Mr. Djelic, I'm a tenant. I don't have any real estate. My family lives as a tenant. I would like to, and there are many more of these citizens of the Republic of Serbia who would like to live in the immobilities of another person for 10 years. I think it's unsustainable, that it's unfair and that it's not celery. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment that the Republic Government has the possibility, or republican authorities, to use free immovableities, for example, AP Vojvodina within three years. We think it would be fairer and more celery. Ten years is an inexplicably long deadline. Last time, we also discussed the dilemma of establishing the right of property of an autonomous province and local self-government and the acquisition of the right of property of an autonomous province and local self-government to things that will pass over to the property of the province, municipalities and cities. I said this was a solution that you predicted contrary to the other law, the Law on Planning and Construction. I told you, but I didn't get the answer, that the current Law on Planning and Construction is designed to move the construction and construction of unbuilt land on the territory of the AP Vojvodina into the property of the AP Vojvodina by force of the law that is "ex lege". You are now predicting that Vojvodina and local self-government in one process, in one procedure, will have to carry out this procedure and thus acquire property over objects, over things they should have property over. We think this solution is unsustainable because it's contrary to the other law, on the one hand, and on the other hand because this solution is illogical. What the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly adopted as a committee amendment this morning is the sale of fog. This amendment provides that the autonomous provinces of the units of local self-government as the applicant for the registration of public property rights will be exempt from paying taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, freed and paid by all possibly administrative and judicial fees, as well as labour costs and services of the Republic of Geodetic Office. Well, thank God. This should be so in the same way as provided for by the Restitution Act or this latest draft law on restitution. If something was taken away, then I don't know why the former owner would have to pay court or administrative expenses. That's not the point. It is that, where possible, property in Vojvodina is possible because there are both land books and cadastres and everything else, they should be entitled to property "ex legions", by law enforcement. So it's supposed to be about establishing property rights, not about acquiring property in some kind of process that can last for years. You've forgotten all about joint investments. There were words that those facilities built by the AP and the Republic's funds would be co-owned by those two levels of government. But there's no such thing as a solution. These were just some examples that show that we disagree with the concept of the bill, and it's not just about the railroad. By the time we get to the railroad, I need to react to some of your sentences from the day before yesterday. They said in the principle debate that the goal should be our common goal, to build a train 21st and not the 19th century. We absolutely agree with that finding, our goal is exactly that. You said this question had to be put in a historical context. We agree with that finding of yours, Mr. Djelic. As we are already putting things in a historical context, it should be said that in those years, when Vojvodina was the owner of railway infrastructure on its territory, in the 15 years of the 70s and 80s of the last century, 10,000 kilometers of railways were built on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and 540 million dollars were invested in railway infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Our goal is this one. Our goal is to return that time in the sense that the AP Vojvodina and the possibility of investing in rail infrastructure on its territory, in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of all passengers transported by rail. Mr. Djelic, you said one interesting thing. The day before yesterday, you said that you saw that Austria is the only EU Member State in which rail infrastructure can be owned by other levels of government, not just by states. I've been looking at a little parallel practice these days. I can tell you that this case exists in Germany, Italy, the Czech Republic and Hungary. I have cited only a few examples of EU member states. For example, in Germany, DB-NET AG is organised on a regional principle in seven regions. I'm not going back to Austria, for example, since we talked about it the other day. In Italy, the railway infrastructure manager is RT Feroviari Italiana, it is organised on a regional basis with a total of 20 regions, in agreement with the administrative organisation of the Republic of Italy. In the Czech Republic, national and regional railway lines are owned by the state, and part of the regional railways are privatised. In Hungary, regional infrastructure intended for public transport in regions is used mainly for the transport of passengers is given to local authorities. If that's the way it is in these countries, as you've seen, not all states are complex. Not all countries of the regional type, or the federal state, then I don't know why it couldn't be in Serbia? In particular, when we know that our Constitution makes it possible, so do the laws, as well as the strategy that I quoted the day before, which predicts that the infrastructure will gradually be transferred to local self-government and AP Vojvodina. The strategy was adopted in 2008 and nothing happened in the meantime. So much for the railroad and so much for our pre-election demagogue objectives. In the end, I would like to refer to the accepted LSV amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the LSV, this amendment is disastrous for the AP Vojvodina. This amendment provides for the following. The AP Vojvodina also belongs to the funds created by the investments of the AP Vojvodina that are necessary for the exercise of its competence in the affairs of the regulated Constitution, the law and the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. In the second position of this amendment the following is said: The Government of the Republic of Serbia will, by means of its act, set out the funds under Article 1 within 180 days from the date of entry into force of this law on mining and energy affairs, fairs and other business events, public information, protection of public and cultural goods, science, technological development, etc. This amendment, on the one hand, means that what needs to be done and has to be legal, that it will be regulated by a sublegal act, i.e. Government regulation. It is humiliating for the AP Vojvodina and for all citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, a 180-day deadline is foreseen for the government of the Republic of Serbia to decide on what Vojvodina may have property rights. That's scandalous. Not to mention, the government of the Republic of Serbia in 180 days will work in a technical mandate and will not deal with this issue at all. I think it would be better to withdraw this amendment, not to create an impression and try to create the impression that this is something that has improved the law, thanks to which LSV will support this, in the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, harmful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60842	The word has a minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60843	Dear People's MPs, logically looking at it, it's hard to see what's disastrous for anyone, and especially for Vojvodina in this law. The debate we had on certain domains, we discussed parallel practice. To come now, when, looking at the amendments your political party has submitted, literally, all of what was fundamentally the subject of the debate, is now, in one way or another, in the text of the law. It is not the idea to see who it is and what it has suggested, if it is a few political parties, and now I will be careful not to be warned by the chairman and MPs, because technically it has proposed similar amendments, although the government has made synthesis and proposed amendments that can represent a common denominator for the same purpose, so I don't see what's really wrong with that. I guess the goal is to make everyone better, both in Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia. I guess the goal is to make the best possible arrangements for relations within our country. Absolutely not what you started with, which is that the government has rejected the amendments. If we're looking at the form instead of the essence, maybe you can say that. I guess the point is more important than the form. I think when you talk about this last amendment, I believe he's opening up new opportunities for Vojvodina. I don't see how you can say that one thing that will ensure that the AP Vojvodina gets additional opportunities, that it's something that's wrong. As far as the railways are concerned, we saw recently during a debate on the railways of this home that it was a necessary and expensive system. There are no countries in Europe that we could ask and say – are you satisfied with the way your community works, and that we will get one unanimously yes. Literally, there are countries that have been fortunate to provide significant resources, to invest in infrastructure and signalling, wagons, other means of transfer of passengers and goods, but are now facing serious problems at this time of crisis. You're talking about regions, at this point in Italy, there's an entire debate about how many regions will be abolished. That's what we're talking about at this point in Italy, not because it has some political impediment and that the country has some sudden major centralist urge, but because it turns out that one Italy is not able to finance such a number of regions. So it's all living matter. You're right about what you said about railway infrastructure. There are local cases. I've asked further questions, and I'm going to give you another example number. As you said, there are three departments in Germany, and there are three departments in France, which are given a total of three 10km railways and in Corsica one railway belongs to Corsica and 99.93% of railways belong to the state-owned company Rezo Fere de France, i.e. The infrastructure of the French railways. It's not a question, of course we're looking at models, you said in Hungary it was administered to management. And today you can do it. We're just discussing property issues here. And today, according to the Duchy of Vojvodina Act, it is possible to form such an enterprise and be given to manage a number of stripes. We're only talking about a very specific and very narrow issue here, which shows very clearly that if the AP Vojvodina still wants to do so today according to the Constitution and the laws voted to move forward, it's absolutely possible. Then we will all, because we are all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, meet with restrictions called financial resources and opportunities and priorities. I believe that no one can be independent of his or her political principles to say that this law is disastrous for the AP Vojvodina at the moment when it is right under the Law on Public Property that allows what the 2006 Constitution has opened. On the contrary, when on Monday, as I hope, the National Assembly with a large majority vote this law will be extremely good news not only for all citizens of the AP Vojvodina, but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60844	Thank you, Mr. Djelic. Mr. Krasic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's got two minutes to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60845	Mr. Novakovic, I must warn you that there are two members of the Rules of Procedure who oblige you to intervene. One is the general member of 27th and the other is 107th. I don't know if it slips, but even if Mr. Djelic gets lost, you have a duty to warn him. This is not about Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia. What is "the rest of Serbia"? KIM and the rest of Serbia, what is your formulation? The Republic of Serbia is the Republic of Serbia. There is no remainder of the Republic of Serbia. You advertise the rest of the Republic of Serbia. What is the rest of the Republic of Serbia? Belongs, fruits, what are you talking about? There's a lot of mistakes in that termology. Talks between Belgrade and Pristina, what are the talks between Belgrade and Pristina? What are you talking about? In the day of voting to vote on this, and that you who chair are learning lessons. Serbia can't be the rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60846	After this, it's not worth it to explain. The assembly in the voting day will certainly plead at your request. The word has Mr. Jovanovic, also advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60847	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Mr. Pastor, you were talking about the amendment we submitted, and the government accepted in a scandalous way. Then I'll say why it's politics and demagogy, not just your own or your own party, but the entire circuit administration. If you want to fight for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, fight with us. Don't throw crumbs in front of the republican government that you're blackmailing, because you know there's no 126 without an MP from Vojvodina. What country do we live in, what atmosphere? How can you say that our amendment the government has agreed to is a meaningless amendment, to which no place is in this law? The chapter is called – Management of goods of general interest. For the management of goods of general interest in public property, public undertakings, public agencies and capital companies can be established. Under the management of goods of general interest within the meaning of Article 1, the dependence of the nature of good, breeding, ageing, construction, maintenance, etc. shall be understood. Our amendment is very precise and he says that public undertakings and public agencies and capital companies under Article 1 are obliged to manage the security, legal and protection of the sole public interest, that it is forbidden to use the goods of public interest in private, partner or other illicit purposes, that the directors who manage these goods are elected in a public competition. Where is this supposed to say, if not in the chapter of the law on public property called – Management of goods of general interest? We said what are the key amendments. Why didn't the circuit administration take them? Why did you cancel the circuit assembly? Why did you not support the amendment that speaks of the management of natural resources and properties on natural resources and good of general interest? That's all that matters. Everything else is politics. We're interested in transforming the country. We don't think anything in Vojvodina can be done by constantly antagonising Vojvodina with most of Serbia that has been poisoned.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60848	Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't get it right. This was the right line to the replica you had anyway. The word is Miss Jerkov, and so is Mr Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment that Mr. Pastor called scandalous, catastrophic and believes it should be withdrawn speaks of what all AP can belong to. This is the property it needs to exercise the competence it has in accordance with the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I don't see how there can be a scandalous amendment allowing the AP to take possession of property in the fields of energy, fairs, other business manifestations, public information, protection of cultural goods, science, technological development and other businesses provided for by the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I also don't understand how someone who advocates the autonomy of the Vojvodina can consider scandalous anything that represents an improvement in the sense of Vojvodina's assets compared to what was originally proposed. We will not withdraw the amendment, since it has been accepted, that it has become an integral part of the law, that it represents more property for the AP Vojvodina. We don't find it scandalous that Vojvodina has more property. For example, I personally believe that it is scandalous 10 days to cause a crisis in the ruling coalition, that it is scandalous 10 days to insist that those who have collaborated with the occupier be placed in the same level as the people who have been taken away from the property and that in such a way you allow those who primarily took away the assets of the AP Vojvodina, viewing them as potential coalition partners, creating a space for political action, for claims that do not stand and thus work directly against the interests of the citizens of Serbia and those citizens of Vojvodina, because I do not see how the arrival of Alexander Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic in power can be different from that of their arrival in the 1990s in power when the Vojvodina takes possessions. Mr. Jovanovic, if you don't mind, we won't fight you for Vojvodina's autonomy, since we've been fighting without you for 20 years. For a while we fought against you for the autonomy of the Vojvodina at a time when you could decide about it, and we'll work our way into those things that we can influence ourselves to do, and where we can agree, we'll cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60850	Please do not address the other MPs directly. The word is Mr Balint Pastor, so Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60851	Mr. Vice President, if I understand correctly, then I have the right to three replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60852	Please, replicas don't add up. You have a word and you have a right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60853	Okay, then I'll call Mr. Deputy Prime Minister first, and then I'll get back to you, and that's how we'll do it. I didn't say, Mr. Djelic, that the legal proposal was disastrous. Check the stenographic notes. I said amendment LSV is scandalous and catastrophic. As far as the bill is concerned, I commended you, saying that it is getting better and better every day. I don't know if he'll be good enough by Monday, depending on how you look at things, because according to the draft law of August of the current year, which was created by the task force, led by Mr. Kostresh, it was envisaged that over the infrastructure facilities of the AP Vojvodina and units of local self-government could not have the right to property. The draft ruled out the possibility that Vojvodina had any infrastructure in its possession. It is now foreseen that the roads will be adopted by local self-government and AP Vojvodina and that is an improvement, but it is only a question – can we consider this to be a sufficient improvement when other positive applicable laws have already been provided for, except that it has not been applied? I didn't say this bill was disastrous. I think it should be better, that it should allow local self-governments and Vojvodina to create assumptions for economic development and therefore we believe that this proposal should be improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60854	Time. Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60855	Miss Jerkov, I think it's more serious than your desire to do something with us for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, the question of your ability to do anything, and I'm very serious about it. I think the representatives of the province need internal mediation, because all that's going on is compromising the idea of modern autonomy. Vojvodina today is the hostage of two types of romance, of occasional primitiveism, of one that denies the right of the Vojvodina to exist and is present in Vojvodina by standing by the neck boot of anyone who thinks differently, he is now dominant in Vojvodina, but also of another who is justifying for everything that is bad in Vojvodina to find in Belgrade's evil intention there, and we disagree with that. If we want to work seriously on the Public Property Act, then it is impossible to resolve the property issue of the AP Vojvodina under the Constitution that was adopted in 2006, and then you worked together with the LDP. Today you are closer to the Constitution against whom you were then than we are at any moment. In doing so, those who are reasonable in Vojvodina can count on partnership with our party, with our committees in Vojvodina, but not on the basis on which a party partnership in Vojvodina was mainly developed for 11 years, all with everyone and everyone against everyone. One of the problems with the Vojvodina today is the fact that you don't know who has to leave to make something positive happen in Vojvodina, because everyone in Vojvodina was power.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60856	Thank you. I ask the MPs not to address each other directly, but the subject is interesting. The word is for Mr. Pastor. You can have the word, you have the time of the parliamentary group. (Baline Pastor, from the post: Replica to Mr Jovanovic. He never mentioned you, nor thought of you, but looked at Miss Jerkov and his whole exposure was... It's gone before, we've been through it. So you can get a word on this basis and I'm giving it to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60857	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Jovanovic mentioned my name in his previous replica and misread my words, saying that I said that the LDP amendment is pointless. Check the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60858	You got the word, you don't have the right to a replica, and I'm not taking it away from you. You've got 25 seconds more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60859	Mr. Jovanovic, I did not say that your amendment is pointless, I said that we support this solution that you have proposed, but I said that the place where that solution is not in this law. I'll tell you what. Because this member of the Public Property Act deals with property management, not company management. I'll tell you, Mr. Jovanovic, that I made this note because cancer is the cancer of our legal system of cohesion. I'll tell you the most well-intentioned that this amendment of yours will be part of the law on public property and, unfortunately, that provision will be in collegiate with the other law, which regulates public enterprises. The government of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, will not apply this solution of yours, which we absolutely support and consider to be good, but will apply the older solution of the second law, which is also valid, which does not foresee this possibility. I haven't been worth your amendment at all. I didn't even mention your client. That's why you had less rights to the replica than I now have to replicate, Mr. Jovanovic. So, the fundamental differences, Mr. Jovanovic, between us are, in that regard, but we'll see what this solution will look like. I hope the government applies this solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60860	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic has a word. Once again, I ask the People's Messengers, don't speak to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60861	I understand your suggestion, but, believe me, the only place I wasn't talking to my interviewer was a special court, because I thought whoever was in front of me didn't deserve that. I don't think it's a problem for MPs if we talk like that, to look at each other, but okay, I'll respect it. I accept your suggestion, but I really think it's pointless if you put one good idea in the wrong place. If we are talking about the Public Property Act, Chapter - management of goods of general interest, Section 1 says - public enterprises and public agencies of capital can be established for the management of goods of general interest, and then we add to the amendments that specify how these public enterprises function. We think that's the place here. I agree that this solution will be in collegiate with a whole series of other regulations, and that is the problem of organisation of our society, it is absolutely not controversial, such as the Rehabilitation Act in conflict with the Code of Criminal Procedure or Criminal Code. But it's a whole other topic now. We believe that it is the place of this amendment in the section of the Law on Public Property, which specifies the management of public property, behind Article 41, in which the concept of a public enterprise managed by a trustee is very clearly formulated. We believe that this is certainly the way to determine how this public enterprise is handled and how the leadership of the public undertaking is chosen. This property of general interest must by no means become property that is being abused for some political purpose, so that we no longer have villages or constituencies in which we have our candidate, and an electoral unit in which our candidate has no right to a new gas infrastructure or to those famous Prijepolje bandits, when our political competition by house has divided the bandits and thus received votes. This is about it, and I don't want to say anything else about it. I agree that, on many issues, there is agreement, with the fact that you are making a mistake at first, because the topics you are discussing are issues that require the unity of institutions in Vojvodina, at the level at which the country's fundamental reform policy is formulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60862	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Balint Pastor, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60863	I'll try to explain to you, Miss Jerkov, which is why I think this amendment of yours is disastrous to the interests of the Vojvodina. Because, unfortunately, in this country, neither the Constitution nor the Budget Law applies, and for years. Do you really think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will by its act determine within 180 days what things are in the possession of the AP Vojvodina. That's not even legal. This, ladies and gentlemen, is law matter, not sublaw. That's why I think you should insist that these things be regulated by the Law on Public Property, not that we deceive the public now by everything being okay in 180 days, when the Government adopts this regulation on something that is legal matter. As for Alexander Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, etc., I don't think that should be the case, it's not a topic at all. They're our coalition partners, roughly, just like you. I don't know where we are in the SNS coalition. Miss Jerkov, do you know a local self-government, a local community, anything where we are in the coalition with the SNS? Don't scare the public, don't deceive the public. Instead, explain to the citizens why you gave up your legitimate demands that are identical to our demands regarding creating assumptions for the economic development of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60864	I'll give Miss Jerkov another word based on the replica. This would end this circle of replicas. I'm almost sure we've fully understood each other and made every single one of our views clear. Thank you for understanding me. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60865	First of all, for the sake of truth, I didn't say that they, Mr. Pastor, are coalition partners, but potential coalition partners, acceptable coalition partners, and these days they're advertising you as the main future partner, which is not happening to others. As far as the answer to this question is concerned, it comes down to whether we believe we live in a country that applies laws or does not apply laws. If it's impossible within 180 days, you're saying to determine what all this property should belong to, I don't know how it's possible to do it in a law that's being passed today, when we don't have that information yet. If we believe that the Assembly won't pass laws that will apply, then this institution doesn't make any sense at all, and then this conversation is on a slightly deeper level than it does at first, because then we really live in a state that doesn't have the basic elements of the rule of law, which we can talk about, but not in terms of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60866	According to the amendment, Mr. Lapčević has the word, and Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60867	I must say that this debate today on amendments is very interesting and amazing. Instead of discussing a law that should qualitatively improve the situation in its own relations in Serbia, instead of discussing a law that will restore certain property to local self-government, we today have a pointless debate between MPs coming from the territory of Vojvodina, who have certain amendments and are literally asking for everything and everything to be transferred to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. The debate, in practice, was more like a partial balance between Vojvodina and Serbia than a public property law. It's just amazing to me, and I'd like to ask you who's here to propose public property laws, is it the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or is it the Manjina parliamentary group or the parties coming from the territory of the AP Vojvodina? We got a proposal from the government. On the day of the debate, after the great halabuca by minority parties and those parties operating in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, we received more than 20 amendments signed by the Government, as it requested a certain structure of people, I would say bureaucracy in Vojvodina, because it suits them so that they could manipulate as many voters in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There is no law that is of this nature, that in the last two or three years we haven't had here, literally, instead of discussing the law, a debate about who gets what. (President: Mr. Lapčević, you spent two minutes, and I still don't see any connection to the amendment to Article 10 submitted by Mr. Balint Pastor. I speak in the time of my MP group. (President: But about the subject. The theme is, as far as I know, all the time in my presentation. (President: Amendment to Article 10) So I really don't understand how much more Serbia's state will be a hostage of Vojvodina, where everything is measured by what Vojvodina will get and what Serbia will give. Such laws will be adopted, which shall be at the will of the parties from Vojvodina or the province administration. Someone here mentioned the word hostage. Yes, there are such blackmailing relations here, but Serbia is a hostage, because today Serbia cannot pass any law without the consent of the Vojvodina parties, because it is the majority and because the government must maintain its century until the end of the term of office... (President: The amendment to Article 10 does not speak of any hostage system. He's talking about how. The essence of the law speaks of it. The full character of the law has changed, and instead of making a qualitative move and local self-government getting property in the way, we have a partial balance between Vojvodina and Serbia, where Vojvodina is blackmailing whether it will give something or not. If you don't give the railway to Vojvodina, then there won't even be a vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60868	Thank you. It's not the subject of an amendment. Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60869	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will have to be a little more general in the discussion, because the amendment promoter in his discussion was not only in general, but he also announced it in the interpretation of the amendments, explaining other amendments and speaking of the law in principle. That's what you let him do. I'm not gonna take much time, but I'm gonna waste my time on the parliamentary group, say I'm gonna be a little more general and talk about the amendment, but I'm gonna remind you of some invoices. So this is the first government since 2000, from democratic changes, which have gained power and which has managed to make public property law and thus finally return property to municipalities, cities and provinces for management, i.e. property. Of course, there was plenty of time to discuss, there was plenty of time to propose amendments, there was plenty of time to criticise this law. However, some parties felt that this is a topic on which they should earn some votes they needed in the next elections and yet the debate in principle, especially now in particular, has turned into politics. Do you think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also the Government of Vojvodina, didn't think enough about the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia when they first made a proposal for this law, and after that, when they gave amendments to this law and when these amendments were discussed afterwards, and when this amendment was discussed, which we are now talking about. As a representative of the DS, as someone from Novi Sad, from Vojvodina, I believe that this law, with all the amendments the government has proposed, is a good measure for the citizens of Vojvodina, a good measure for the citizens of Serbia, because the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia and there are no denominations. This is a law that needs to improve the position of an ordinary citizen, to allow cities to exercise their rights faster and easier, to have building land, etc. Whether something is a joke or something is watery and whether an amendment of a particular political party has been accepted or not is not accepted, so it does not want to vote for the whole law, but enters the sphere of politics and I do not think it has anything to do with the interests of the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia. Given that the DS is primarily concerned with the interests of Serbian citizens, so the citizens living in the APV area, the DS will vote in favour of this law and amendments to the laws that contribute to this interest and will not deal with the competition in who contributed more and whose amendment has passed, but whose amendment is better and which gives more opportunities to citizens who will be able to benefit from this law, as well as all the laws we have passed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60870	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS has proposed in Article 10(4) that after the words "good in general use are in the possession of the Republic of Serbia" point and to delete that part of attitude 4 that says "the streets, squares, public parks are in the public property of the local self-government unit on whose territory they are located". The SRS believes that the political system and the legal system in the Republic of Serbia is extremely complicated without any need and that such a complicated legal-political system does not have a real economic basis. Today, we are attending a divorce case between parties that have the exclusive right to represent the interests of Vojvodina and citizens living in the territory of the APV. I don't know if there's any peace proceedings or any other phase of the divorce process, whether you Mr. Djelic will be the concierge of these autonomists and fighters for Vojvodina or the verdict will finally be passed and the marriage will be divorced. Here things are completely upside down, Mr. Djelic. We have the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations of 1980. I haven't yet done research on whether the law was passed before or after Joseph Broz Tito's death, but in any case it was passed in 1980. Perhaps you know Mr. Novakovic, you're a little older than me, so you'd better remember those times. The Serbian government instead of proposing a new law on the foundations of property-legal relations to finally see what property is in the Republic of Serbia, no, you keep the communist law on the basis of property-legal relations, and you want to be reportedly in a modern way to regulate the matter of public property. As far as I understand it, the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations is more general law than the Law on Public Property, because public property is only one kind of property in the Republic of Serbia, apart from private, cooperative, etc. That's one thing and one problem. The other problem here is, you don't know who's a major advocate of the interests of Vojvodina and citizens living in the territory of the APV, whether SVM, whether LSV, whether DS, whether LDP, who knows, maybe SPO, are in great love with Canka, who is the exclusive representative of the interest of Vojvodina here. Give him the final license and tell him – this is the authorised representative of Vojvodina in the Serbian parliament and he alone has the right to speak of the interests of Vojvodina. I don't know, Mr. Djelic, as economists, I guess the next thing is quite clear to you. It doesn't matter here at all whether the streets, parks, parking lots are in the possession of local self-government, in the possession of Vojvodina or in the property of the state, if neither the municipality nor the province, nor the state has any money. Go now, Mr. Djelic, in front of the government building APV. There you will see the most recent, very luxurious cars, there you will see a building that shines at night, there you will see a bunch of some regional officials who, on the day of day, drink coffee in nearby cafes, and at the same time, after you look at what the government building of APV looks like, go to Plandište, go to Opovo, go to Vršac, go to Shid, visit 50% of municipalities in the territory of APV and there you will see that there are no living people, that real estates are sold for five, six, 10,000 euros, that everything is dead, that the economy does not exist, that in these municipalities, which you now intend to give the right of public property, corruption of unprecedented proportions, public procurement procedures are being set up, tenders are being set up, and citizens who live in these municipalities. What do you need to do now? Here we hear stories – the Budget Law should be applied, the omnibus law should be applied. No, Mr. Djelic, it is here that the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure should finally be applied to criminals, mobsters, thieves, secics, municipal robbers, finally put behind bars from the province, because if you give thieves and criminals the right to public property, I do not know what progress you expect in Vojvodina or anywhere in Serbia. You'll have tomorrow, Mr. Djelic, I apologize, I won't disturb Mr. Minister while he conducts important talks, Deputy Prime Minister. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Omeragic, you're interrupting the speaker. I'm sorry to bother you, Mr. Djelic. So, I don't know what kind of progress you're expecting, Mr. Djelic. Tomorrow you will have a situation where hotheads in municipalities in Serbia, including Vojvodina, will be remembered to sell those same streets, sell those same parks, sell all these items in public property. You're surprised. Mr. Djelic, there are now huge abuses of state property, so with objects, with immobilities, with moving things in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, you now have as much as you want in the municipalities. You have examples of local, business spaces that are state-owned cannot be leased, and it is a mass phenomenon that municipalities do, now that it is property of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine how the situation will be when you give them property, when they no longer have to ask the Property Directorate or the Government whether they can do something about it or not. Mr. Djelic, freedom is a very nice thing, but freedom also involves a huge responsibility, including a huge commitment. I don't know if you're aware of one thing, it's nice to give it this way at first sight, great, it's going to get the municipalities of its streets, the parks, who knows what it's not, all the real estates that are now in the possession of the Republic of Serbia will now be municipal. In municipalities where there is no economy, in municipalities where, to a large extent, or in certain situations, people at the head of very suspicious political morality, have become encumbered in crime, in municipalities where there is no money, you will give these municipalities these immovableities in public property. Tomorrow when you have people from the municipalities that I have listed to you from many other municipalities from central Serbia and people say – we have no money to pave the way for 500 meters of street, we have no money to arrange these public parks. What are you gonna tell them? Gentlemen, you've got your property, it's yours, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got Tell me how Mr. Djelic will take his streets, his roads, his parks, his buildings to, say, maintain Opova, Plandište, Shop, Bosilegrad, etc.? You today have municipalities in Serbia where it is a luxury to have a computer in a municipality building, today you have municipalities in southern Serbia where official documents are typed on a typewriter. You'll give them public property, it's very nice and it's basically very simple. Then what do they do with it? Absolutely nothing. I don't know if you're familiar with the next thing. They're talking about the Vojvodina, they need to give the Duke the railroad, they need to give this to him, they need to give it to him. If I'm not mistaken, a Capital Investment Fund in APV was established in 2006. The fund is currently empty, owes hundreds of millions of dinars to municipalities and contractors for various works carried out on municipal infrastructure by municipalities and cities in Vojvodina. The fund is currently empty, owes hundreds of millions of dinars to municipalities and contractors, for various works carried out on municipal infrastructure by municipalities and cities in Vojvodina. And what do the citizens of the Duke have out of it? They don't have anything. Mr. Pastor, who looks like he's running a dead race with the leaguers now who's going to be a major autonomist and a representative of the interest of Vojvodina, speaks of the railways. And he says – in the period of validity of the 1974 Constitution, by 1989 in Vojvodina made thousands of kilometers of railway lines. Yes, it is. By whose means? It wasn't just the funds of the SAP of Vojvodina at the time, so I guess the federal government was giving something. Well, we've also been in charge abroad of the built-in infrastructures of railways, roads, etc. And no, everything that's been done on the territory of the Duke, we've made it and now it's ours. This Assembly, because of the policy run by the ruling coalition, which is not a state policy, is a small flea market policy. Bargaining and trading. This assembly stopped being the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't even the federal parliament, this is the confederal assembly, this is where the central Serbian delegates sit, this is where the Vojvodina delegates sit, and then they bargain, who's going to take what. The president of the SRS wrote several books, dedicated, as he said to "sharp UN turkeys", the Republic of Serbia has become a corrupt turkey. Everyone's pulling something for themselves, we're only worried about Novi Sad in Novi Sad, what's down in southern Serbia only cares about southern Serbia, so who's going to take care of the state? Who's gonna take care of the state? Nobody. This is where you bargain and bargain. Okay, we'll give you the railroad, you vote, we'll give you some money, so vote for the next bill, etc. Then here, apparently, the whole of Serbia's government is fighting a price. You don't know who the government is anymore, who the opposition is. Yesterday, when you obeyed the law on restitution, people won't be government in Serbia, they're all opposition, they're all criticizing each other. It's a great law European, etc. We must enter the EU when it starts by members no one is satisfied with that law. No one will rule. Because the government means responsibility. If there was a completely abnormal situation, I don't know if there's any more ideological current in political philosophy that exists without being represented in the ruling coalition. Here you have the Chetniks, the communists, the autonomists, ask God what all ideological option there is, as reportedly, all of you are for the same thing. I'm sorry, you're not. Mr. Djelic, the law is disastrous. In practice, it will cause a number of abuses. You finally put things in the right place. Change economic policy, stop stealing, stop corruption, make Serbia a normal, legalised state, stop public procurement. Tell your council presidents to stop stealing. Tell those in Vojvodina to stop stealing too... (President: Back to the amendment please. I apologize to Mr. Novakovic, all I'm saying is true. If it isn't you who correct me... (President: But you're not in the topic, is it true or not? ) And how it is a theme, and how it is a theme. Tell those there in Novi Sad and Kragujevac and who knows where you're not in power to stop taking fat fees to the detriment of the citizens. When you do all this and when you fix it, Mr. Novakovic, when people with long fingers, when you give people without moral property, trade, streets, parks, etc. You know what they'll do tomorrow when they can't rob the citizens anymore. Investments have fallen, there is no investment in the EU, Mr Djelic, you will not enter in the next 100 years, the money in the country is getting smaller, when they no longer have anything to steal from, when they no longer have anyone to take from, those you give to public property on the street, parks, highways, state roads, first and 15th lines will eventually start selling it. Because the central government doesn't care what happens at the local level, you want to know what the current rating is, whether Johnson's index on this political flea market. Will the MPs of SVM be pleased here? Will the LSV in that same Vojvodina be satisfied with the support of 0.5%? That's what you're interested in, and how they really live and what the real standard of citizens are in the same Vojvodina and central Serbia and Belgrade, and who knows where, you don't care. All of what we have been present for days and public property and restitutions, in a few months it will be the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be only a mere trade between the ruling parties, that what today is called the Serbian Government which you did not form and you are not wondering whether the government will survive but those who really formed it, America, Great Britain and domestic tycoons. (President: Mr. Martinovic, for the third time, the topic. You're only interested in whether America called the Serbian Government will survive. Everything else, citizens, Serbia, the state, the real life of people in Serbia doesn't interest you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60872	The word has a minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60873	I'll limit myself to the amendment. As for the amendment, it is true that the biggest obstacle is the lack of funds. But it's not true to say it's the only obstacle. And we already have good ten years of experience now when, in many situations, even when a sufficient level of resources was provided to repair something of local importance, the works were delayed, they couldn't take place in a certain rhythm, because the property situation was complex, which was waiting for paper from this ministry, approval, consent of the Property Directorate. And all of this, and I can tell you that since I have attended numerous sessions of the government of the RS, we have in the Government of the Republic of things decided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not decided by any other government in Europe. About things that are only of local interest. Does this mean that decentralisation does not pose any danger? Of course decentralisation is also a danger. We're at risk of centralization, strengthening one center, the risk of this one centre unless it's managed correctly by the country, taking the whole country that way. The risk of all decisions being made at that level, with insufficient information and insufficient public control. Of course, there are dangers of decentralisation. It is true that decentralisation has, in some cases, led to an increase in both costs and corruption but decentralisation and the core of what is proposed by this law is that the responsibilities are monitored. You can't say anyone can sell the road. That's not true, by law it's not possible, the only thing that's possible in this category of goods in Article 10 we're talking about, and here you're talking about the streets, which are good in general use, is the law that they can't be sold, that it's possible to form some rights provided for in a special law, concession. But you don't need to scare the citizens that from one time that through this decentralisation someone at the bar will decide because he needs money for that local self-government and will sell everything from one time to another. First, it is not possible under the law and it ignores the fact that all these decisions will have to pass and democratically check locally. Well, if you are in opposition, you will be able in all the municipalities you mentioned to alarm the public and you will be able, as I believe, to alarm it in a much better way, because it will not be for anyone in this debate to find an excuse for someone else at the central office deciding for him and hiding behind someone alleged from Belgrade for a decision he makes alone. So the local government of this law becomes in the fullest sense of that word, local government. And t is the core of democracy at the local level. Thus, this law that allows decisions to be made where they belong, which ensures that those who make those decisions have the means necessary, the finances, the assets are, in fact, a much greater responsibility, you are right, a much greater obligation. But it's up to them to prove that they will use these intelligences in the best possible way in the interests of the citizens. More than ever, local leaders will have the right responsibility over those who gave them the mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60874	Thank you. The word will be received by Mr Jovanovic, so Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60875	Mr. Martinovic, I believe that you gave a compliment when you described LDP as a party that is fighting for the duchy interests and that is why I did not report for the replica. I think everything you said after that is very bad and wrong. In a discouraged country like ours, it is truly irresponsible to build a policy to spread fears, which are completely unfounded. You are not warning Serbia of some danger that is threatening her, because there are no dangers, but you are manipulating the fears and problems our country is facing. For our party, the issue of our country's organisation is very important. Without an effective state, there's nothing we can do. The amendments we have made to the Law on Public Property, we ask that the natural resources of this country be the property of those who depend crucially on them. We are not asking for these natural resources to be sold, we are opposing it, and I will remind you that the only wealth in this country that has been sold to another country, the wealth that you have sold, among other things, and you have supported as radicals, is the privatisation of NIS, but also the findings of NIS and oil and gas in this country, I mean the Banatical Court, which is also a natural wealth, not Serbia anymore, but the Russian Federation. In this way, we are the only country that treats its wealth in Europe in this way. If we talk about the importance of ownership and property of natural wealth, or good of general interest, in general use. It is very important for Belgrade to have the right to property, let's say over water land. So 20,000 boat owners in this city have signed a petition asking them to allow them to build a water gas station, which Belgrade is unable to do, though it is the owner of Belgrade's water. For the citizens of Brodarev, Prepolje, it is very important that they be the owners of water land, that it be in their possession, because then they could affect the construction of a dam that is under construction, thanks to the will of a minister and ministry that has been abolished in the meantime. For Nis, it's very important that he can have the cultural good of "Median" in his possession, because then it wouldn't be buried with sand, because a mosaic can't be saved differently. The interests of Vojvodina do not have to be opposed to the interests of Serbia or any other local self-government, but the confusion in which we are located is increased by this law and the way it is done and you are right. Thanks for the overrun. I'm not gonna answer that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60876	Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60877	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, things are obviously mystified here and very trendy. Mr Djelic, even so far, municipalities have been able to pave the way for their streets and roads without asking the government, only in some situations, when the municipality wants to carry out some infrastructure project that intersects with the roads that belong to the Republic of Serbia, then it was necessary to obtain the consent of the public company The roads of Serbia or Serbia lead, Serbia forest, etc. The situation will remain that way and nothing will change there. Now that you're listening to the debate and Mr. Djelic and Mr. Jovanovic, it turns out like this, they're incompetent in the government, they don't want to do their job, they're unsupervised, etc. In the municipalities they're capable, they've got a great administration, everything's gonna be great. It won't be. First, who will bear the responsibility that the Republic of Serbia has been trying for ten years to have an effective state administration, and still does not. You say we haven't always been able to give consent in time, issue a permit, sign some administrative act, etc. Who's to blame? You who have been in power for ten years in Serbia and who talk nonstop about how your priority is an effective state administration, a rational one, which does not delay procedures, made up of educated experts, and for ten years nothing has happened on that plan. Now you've figured out, well, the state administration is no good, but our local self-government is great, there won't be any more problems. Imagine, Mr. Djelic, what will happen tomorrow in many municipalities and cities of Serbia, when you load that care of your public property on their necks. You think they'll make it so fast? He won't. You've misread the entire system of local self-government and turned it upside down. The SRS has been promoting software, ideologically, not since yesterday, since the time of Nikola Pasic for strong local self-government, but increase the jurisdiction of local self-government. No, you're reducing jurisdiction. You're just adding to it. A local self-government that is poor, robbed, without enough competent local administrations will not be able to properly take care of these moving and immovable matters in public property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60878	The People's Messenger, Mr. Chikiriz, has the word, and the People's Messenger Mikovic, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60879	I am, of course, against the adoption of this amendment, and it seems to me that it best paints the difference and philosophy in approach to what an internal arrangement of a country should look like. Whoever needs to care, who needs to manage and what's in whose possession it should be. In doing so, I would agree that perhaps we lack a system law on the basis of property-legal relations, because the old law is exceeded and it dates back to Tito's period. The SPO, of course, believes and that life has shown us, that someone from Belgrade cannot care about Tara or Fruska Mountain National Park, in the same way that people who live there live directly and who are much more interested in it, to keep it the way it really should be. Therefore, the public and frightened, when we adopted the Statute of Vojvodina, that by trusting the AP to manage national parks on its territory, the AP would split off at the same time. I will remind the Members of the people that we live in the 21st century and that we are late for the orderly countries that are all of this that we are discussing today have done in the 20th century. The resistances of decentralisation and transfer to the assets of the AP and local self-government rest on the 19th century philosophy. In that century, indeed, I will take the example of Italy, united all its provinces, regions and formed a strong centralized government with the intention of managing all the good that belongs to Italian cities. However, life has shown that this is impossible, so after the process Italy began the process of strong regionalisation and decentralisation of the country, and it has given full effect, something similar has happened in Spain. As a result, the members of the SPO as MPs, too, asked if Mr. Canak was our friend of this philosophy. Not that he is our friend Mr. Canak, our friends are also LDP, the National Minorities Party and DS, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and all those who realize that the current system in which someone sitting in Belgrade and representing the Government, or the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, cannot manage the markets better and edit squares and parks in Kragujevac, whose MP I am either in Nis or anywhere in Serbia. What are the requirements of the Vojvodina, it should be made clear that at the same time the requirements of the Forest, while demanding local self-government, are at the same time afraid that citizens will give them a chance at crime. We don't believe at all that they are more vulnerable to the crime of people in local self-government than people who exercise central authority. I think they're equally vulnerable to crime both of them and that these dangers are lurking at every turn, but since the good in general use, which we're talking about now, enjoys special legal protection and we believe that responsibility for anyone who commits abuses, and they hide behind many members of this bill, will certainly be held accountable, whether it is central or local. What SPO believes is that people who live in a particular territory, who manage good in general use, in that territory, are just as interested in doing it in a quality way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60880	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. It's a nice announcement. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Assembly for vacant seats in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented a report by the Republic Election Commission in the selection of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Administrative Committee, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Jovani Fa and Ljubisa Sudincu, elected from the election list ZES-Boris Tadic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission, the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find confirmation of the mandates of the Members of the People John Fa and Ljubisa Sudinac. I congratulate the MPs of the election and invite them to enter the O.R. The word has Mr. Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60881	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, love is a miracle. I really don't get involved in why MPs like Mr. Chunk. Who knows, he's a communist family kid, maybe he knows where Draža Mihajlovic is buried, so that's why you love him. Mr. Chikiriz, a joke aside, I haven't heard any citizens anywhere in Serbia, no matter what municipality they live in, in any city, whether in Vojvodina, whether in central Serbia, whether in KIM, who said – I'm sorry that my children and I don't have in our own way, street, park, parking, etc. Of all these people, I heard something completely different – let us work, let us train our children, to treat ourselves normally. That's what Serbian citizens demand. That's what they ask the Serbian government, but you don't give them a job, you don't provide adequate pay, you don't provide the possibility that a 40-year-old or 35-year-old man can buy his family an apartment under some normal conditions. No, you've robbed the citizens, led them to a begging stick, left them at the mercy of foreign banks, and now you've said, well, now you're miserable, poor people, who can't train your children if you don't have money, which you can't treat your sick parents if you don't have money, now you're going to get into the property of the street, the road, the square, etc., and now you're going to be great. He won't, Mr. Djelic. This is just a smoke screen to cover up one fact, which is that you have devastated the Republic of Serbia over the past 10 years. Serbia today is a sad, sad and poor country due to various governments that have been conducting the country's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60882	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has his word, which you mentioned. Please, no talking in person.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60883	Mr. Chairman, just the process of de-determination, the process of decommissioning at the time of the communists, and everything was centralized. Well, you roller beers couldn't buy in Nis or Belgrade beer in Vranj. It was an agreed economy, and citizens couldn't decide their own fate because it was decided by the Supreme Leader and the Party, and the task of the citizens was to sleep peacefully because the party cared about them and the party solved all their problems. Anyone who opposes these processes is the greatest defender of communism. We believe that it is necessary to increase the jurisdiction of local self-governments, and whether or not it was work, I know that it was work in the 1990s, especially for young people in Serbia, but not in Serbia, but in the developed countries from which the regime forced them to do so, there were also jobs in the battlefields, and there were jobs to clean up the ruins after NATO bombing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60884	Thank you. This is where we're done with this circle of replicas. Mr. Mikovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60885	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not agree to adopt the submitted amendment of the distinguished colleague Martinovic because I believe that the better solution proposed in the draft law or amendments of the Government to this Article 10 is 10. It's a bill of law. The amendment, among other things, proposes not to be in the possession of local self-government streets, squares, public parks. I think it should be in the hands of local self-government. I also have a concrete example for that. I come from Pancheva and Pančevo won the status of a municipal city headed by the magistrate and the city administration on January 1st. Some 30 years later, there was a cartoon park in the plans, later called "The People's Garden". Just by investing the most local self-government and those other entities that local self-government has animated to invest in restoring that large park and expanding that large park, the promotion of what has been devastated in some past period, we have reached the point where we have one of the most beautiful parks in Serbia, which is for pride and Dick throughout Serbia and outside Serbia. The fact is that during the past period, local self-government and other entities animated by local self-government, including certain rural funds and others. A whole series of streets, specifically in Panchev and in the settlements of the former municipality, and now in the City of Panchev, the streets and squares are being brought into a state that we cannot be ashamed, as we were ashamed during a certain period. The fact that St. Sava's Street is like the breadth of a housewive in the very center of the city is done, I think it should be an example of how to work and how local self-government should be allowed and in other places to manage their own. (Milica Vojić-Markovic, from the post: Is this an amendment? ) Mr. Chairman, I am talking about Mr. Martinovic's amendment to which I consider...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60886	I listen to you, and I ask the People's Messengers not to earn or interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60887	I am saying why an amendment which excludes the possibility that local self-governments should be the owners of squares, streets and public parks and I give concrete examples and therefore consider a good legal solution to what was given in the bill and what was given in the proposed amendments to the Government. The fact is that each responsible local self-government worked not only to increase their capacity to manage such an asset that was given for use but also to try to train and local communities not only to manage but to even participate in the realisation of certain investments in the area of local communities. In the area of Pancheva, we have a whole series of local communities inhabited where a whole series of investments have been made. Just to mention the town of Starčevo, Novi Selo and other villages, a total of nine villages in the former Pančeva municipality, and now the town of Pančevo, are examples of how streets were built, how squares were made, how other buildings were designed to be owned or owned by local self-government. That is why I believe that the legal solution is absolutely appropriate and that everyone should be the owner and manage what is best done and how the largest number of citizens will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60888	Mr Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60889	Finally, Mr. Novakovic, but I really think you should apply this Rules of Procedure. I know that Mladjan Dinkic started from the National Bank and now ends up with local communities, and Mikovic now wants to take home advice, to be the owners of streets, squares, trash cans, etc. What are you guys talking about? Mr. Martinovic's amendment is clear, precise. You forget only one thing – that you build on the concept of public property or the right to public property and the right to have and the right to use and the right to rule. That's where the mental problem arises. Because when you talk about the right of public property of local self-government and the right of public property of the AP Vojvodina to lead with autonomists, then count on the right to dispose. Mr. Djelic can turn his head and say it won't be possible, but what's not possible, Mr. Djelic, is that yesterday you admitted to us that the Duke's Forests do not recognise the law. Is that right? What is your guarantee that the sale of general goods and good in the general interest will be prevented? There's no guarantee. How are you gonna stop her? You're saying you can't sell the square. Who's going to convince Nenad Chank that it's impossible to sell the square? He'll issue it in concession, you know that. What's it cost him? What responsibility does he have for the Republic of Serbia? There's nothing. One more thing, and he's doing you and he's doing you public. One thing is the right to have and state property, and the other is to use and manage. And so far, on state property, local self-government and AP Vojvodina had the right to use and manage, in different modes depending on things or immovableity, the nature of immovableity, the purpose of immovableness, and the purpose of what this immovableity is for. What are you throwing under your feet? Those are basic principles. You go with all kinds of fairy tales, like the one that owns the network is some company. Mr. Djelic, the state, and when he enters with some means into a company or forms a public enterprise, the monetary part can be expressed in actions and shares, but the immovableity that is given to the management and use of a public enterprise does not enter the underlying capital of that company. Do you understand that? That's forbidden. And you at the little door want to push that the shares and the shares will be in motion and when they catch those who are calling for Maria Teresa, can you imagine what's going to happen? The fact that the Republic Property Directorate, which is responsible for the ministries and particularly the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not effectively implement existing regulations, notably the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of use and governance, that consent, approval, that the unit of local self-government does something, or that you have violated the laws on construction and planning, does not give you the right to change the status of state property. It only obliges you to seduce order in the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, to seduce order in the Catastres, and to seduce order in the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that some of the papers that need to be used will not delay some things. You've promoted the principle of volunteerism. A prominent member of the party in power, as the president of the municipality, the mayor, is happy to be seen in state institutions, and he will, by the way, finish it. And those of the smaller municipalities, or where some of them belong to the parties of the opposition at the Republican level, come, we will take, we will see, we will consider. The problem of not implementing the law, of bad law enforcement, is not by insisting on law enforcement, but by inventing new categories and counting on no one to remember and to see what the background of all these changes is. You know how nice it sounds in local self-government when it's said – I'd be happy to pave this street, but I can't, it's not owned. And so far, the streets have paved in cities and if they weren't in their own cities. Asphaltation was the use and management, and it was not available. And you in general confusion by argumentating use and management, where there are real problems that you're making, promote the principle of property. For example, if our land were in the municipality, we might be in charge. And how is it that, in your regulation that you propose here, you say there's no mortgage on public property? Right? It can't be loaded well. Mr. Djelic, I don't know who tricked you about this. Your MPs are taking away the right to dispose of the exclusive right of the Republic government. Your parents don't trust you. Yours wants to dissipate you. They say it's your fault. Pro-European, found. Because you do not respect the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, they appear the appetites of regionalism, separatism, autonomy, as we have said, are now going to the local communities, and will be on the streets, and as Mikovic is going, he will also go to the apartments. Now citizens will be shareholders of state property since Mr. Mikovic. A bright mind from Panchev. What are you hiding? You're breaking up the country, do you understand that? You're breaking up the country on this property issue. If there's any interference with the use, take care of it. The law allows you to be able. Not the one you propose, but the existing Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. But you won't. You want to be an age, boss. You say, "It's impossible to sell." I just heard an example earlier, and it looks like they're going to sell the "Median" archaeological site. If that was in Nish's jurisdiction, it would be, this one of yours would have solved from Nis, or that one of your bananas, or that one, Zivkovic. They'd sell all the cultural and historical monuments in Nis. What's it cost them? Mr. Djelic, why didn't you jump to defend the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Did you see that just before people knew what privatisation was and what was natural wealth? You can't talk about privatizing one company without forgetting another company. What about privatizing "Sartida"? What about the privatization of sugarcane? What about privatising some of the activities that are necessarily of general interest and have to be controlled by the state? Do you know that there are some municipalities in the Vojvodina territory where the public municipal action of taking out garbage is given to foreign companies and ten times more expensive to take out garbage than it was? Mr. Djelic, why didn't you warn Pitiæ and his buddies there in Vojvodina? Are they collecting compensation for the canals? Why don't they clean them up? What do they buy cars and drive around? Why, Mr. Djelic, did you not seduce the temporary measures? For what? Because of the Capital Investment Fund?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60890	Excuse me, Mr. Krassic, but, uh, squares, parks, streets. Mr. Martinovic's amendment is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60891	Mr. Novakovic, I was planning on ending you. Don't impose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60892	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Based on article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. If Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Mikovic are in the mood, they will certainly get the word. Thank you for your cooperation. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60893	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon section in detail on amendments to the Bill on Public Property. It is up to me to amend to Article 10, which was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60894	Madam Chairman, I didn't think you'd move on to this amendment, since we haven't finished considering the amendment submitted by Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60895	By the notes in the synopsis, I'm doing this amendment, but it's okay. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic had an amendment that was last discussed in the afternoon. Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60896	One more question, won't we wait for Mr. Djelic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60897	Mr. Minister has a duty, so he attends the session in the most part, and when he has some obligations, he has the right, like all other participants, to perform the obligations he has in parallel with the obligation to sit at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my intention was for the minister to be here first, but fine. There has been a lot of controversy over this amendment, and certainly the fact that it would not be debated much that Mr Martinovic's amendment was accepted. We wouldn't have come to this situation first of all when it comes to the ruling majority. What I warned you about, and when the railroad law was here, it turned out to be absolutely true. We had the opportunity to see what SVM and the League of Social Democrats were like when it came to the Law on Public Property. It is simply amazing that such a Eurofanatism by the ruling majority, and in particular Minister Djelic, brings Serbia and brings such a law before MPs where the government itself has submitted 18 amendments, and I do not know how many amendments will be accepted by the ruling majority. This is just another proof that you simply don't have an obstacle to your path leading us to the abyss, and if you had accepted the amendments to the SRS you wouldn't be in this situation right now. It is a completely unwarranted position primarily of SVM and what has been accepted, these 18 amendments by the Government of the Republic of Vojvodina and this agreement between Bojan Pajtic and Santa absolutely leads to nothing, leading only to the dispersion of Serbia further. This is just a farce and a deal between Bojan Pajtic, the League of Social Democrats and SVM. They certainly in the government of the Vojvodina absolutely divided, but the problem, and that's what we had the chance to hear here, the lack of money. We know that this is a pre-election year and that the closer elections, the money is gone, the abuses are huge in the province's government, above all in the Capital Investment Fund. We had a chance to hear it here in the debate. The APV Capital Investment Fund, one of the arguments behind which they stood to ask that everything financed from the fund be owned by APV, currently owes four and a half billion dinars. That money was spent mostly in an election campaign. New elections are getting closer, money is gone, and they simply want to put pressure on the government to give most of them, but they're in trouble. We had a chance to hear where Mr. Pastor said the government secured the LDP reserve, so now they're in trouble. I note, that you have accepted our amendments, and above all, if you had not adopted the Statute of the APV and the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction, which is primarily separatist, we would not be in this situation today. I think it's about time you came to your senses. What you have written in the light of the law where you say that this law is primarily on the orders of the EU and that it is one of Serbia's conditions of accession, I am telling you that it is far smarter for you to say no to the EU, to say to them in person – we do not give KIM, not give Vojvodina, because it is also being prepared for Vojvodina, and to turn to your citizens. I'm sure you'll be punished for this in the next election, and you just can't be trusted anymore. The citizens will absolutely not believe you, because in these 11 years, and I will remind you, Mr Djelic said and asked in principle - when you were so smart why didn't you suggest something for these 11 years? I'm asking you -- when you were so smart, why did the Vinists do something concrete?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60899	I'm asking you, can you stick to the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60900	Of course not, Mrs. Comic, this is all within the agenda. When you mentioned in this law KIM, our mining wealth as a public property...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60901	People's MP, search in detail. The Rules of Procedure are very precise, so on the subject of the agenda. I can also read your amendment on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60902	Certainly, Mrs. Comic. The bosses will give their conviction, and the last poll...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60903	National MP, I warn you that for your determination to make an incident and that you refuse to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have an obligation to give you measures of caution after two warnings. Polls and Kosovo cannot be the topic of the agenda with the amendment you have reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60904	They're moving on here to the amendments, there's farm land, so we'll move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60905	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Bojan Djuric has his word. Time is available for seven minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60906	I'll use much less than that. Just to respond to this mention of the Liberal Democratic Party in a negative context. I think neither this assembly nor the citizens need your interpretation, Mr. Pastor's interpretation of the LDP's position in relation to this law. I think we've talked here for a few days about this law both in principle and in particular, and it's very clear what the LDP position is. We've also submitted amendments, some of which have been adopted. Why am I picking up now? Because the amendment we proposed, which was adopted, refers to what you were talking about. So it prevents the non-domestic spending of funds, and it also prevents these situations from coming into debt, into dubiosis, as is once said, of 4.5 billion dinars, as you have now said, in relation to the Capital Investment Fund. And what the citizens are going to punish and how they're going to vote, I think you have to take a lot more care of that. All the problems or most of the problems that we have today and this law, both for the position of Vojvodina and for the inefficientness and economy and public authorities, when they manage state money, arise primarily from the Constitution. I'm not going to say that you were a golden reserve in the adoption of this constitution, but you participated in its creation and its vote, and in the campaign for it from the state funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60907	One minute used by the MP's group. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60908	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, indeed without a desire to engage in controversy with LDP counterparts, but the SRS has never been a reserve to anyone, especially not a reserve when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted since 2006. Not if we hadn't been a reserve, but had it not been for the SRS and had not been for our public influence, the 2006 Constitution would never have been adopted, given that some of the ruling parties that formally and nominally supported it essentially, when the constitutional referendum was called, boycotted. We voted for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with a pure heart, a pure cheek, in the belief that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia would be the foundation of a well-organised Serbian state. Unfortunately, what is happening today in the Republic of Serbia is not due to what the Constitution was brought in 2006, but precisely because it is run by a policy that is contrary to the basic constitutional principles, which is one thing spoken, and what is quite another is done and implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60909	National MP Srdjan Mikovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60910	In time, I must say that the bill, with amendments to the Government, is absolutely in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with Article 86, where the first position in the second sentence clearly states that public property is state property, property of an autonomous province and property of a unit of local self-government. It is the bill that stipulates that markets, streets, public parks are in the public property of the local self-government unit on whose territory they are located, it is an absolute constitutional solution and I believe that the good government has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60911	Forty-five seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić. National MP Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60912	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the afternoon debate, a word has been heard many times, which is a disaster, a disastrous solution. I would not thus characterise this draft law which is on the agenda, but I would thus characterise this Law on assets of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the law that results in today's Law on Public Property and all that came out of Serbia's poor centralisation. This 1995 law nationalised all property of the province of Vojvodina and of all local self-government, municipalities and cities, and thus made it impossible for the provinces and local communities to use their property, to use their rights, and, when all of this is nationalised, the state did not take on itself and certain obligations, so it took on much less than any other rights and property, such as real estate and movable property. Thus, when this law is compared and put into context with the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, then one fact can be seen, which is that it did not get far away from those solutions that were so bad in this 1995 law. Natural resources, good of general interest, have remained in the possession of the state, i.e. the Republic, and good in general use in a small part have been transferred to the AP Vojvodina, or to local self-government, and I can say very insufficiently. For this reason, we have submitted this amendment to Article 10. The member is usually the key, in addition to Article 9, because these two members of the bill define a way of speed and content and decentralisation to which Serbia is seeking, and that speed is very light, slow, and there is not much content that has shown any will to do this decentralisation specifically. In particular, this amendment, submitted by LDP MPs, provides that good in general use and other good of general interest on AP territory, i.e. good in the general use of local self-government, is to be transferred to the public property of the province, i.e. local self-government. It's one of the ways that this bill could contain a much stronger and better picture of this need for decentralisation of this country. We really cannot participate in the compromise of decentralisation, with a story that has been launched and that is being conducted all the time and debates are being held about Serbia's decomposition, as something that could result from the decentralisation that has been launched. In any case, we can't agree with that other group of thinkers, or another view that there are certain parties here that can and have assumed the exclusive right to represent the interests of Vojvodina. We believe that the LDP has enough capacity to largely protect the rights of the Vojvodina in a civil option, namely to fight for the rights of that Vojvodina, and that is exactly what this amendment points to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60913	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60914	I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 that, after saying, "Republic of Serbia" is changing, the rest of it has to be deleted. This is our proposal, because it is provided for in Article 10(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We believe that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 87 clearly stipulates that natural resources, a good for which the law stipulates that of the general interest and property used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in state property, and in addition, in state property there may be other things, rights in accordance with the law. Therefore, all efforts to ensure that this law provides for natural resources to be owned and owned by the AP Vojvodina or local authorities of local self-government, would be contrary to the Constitution, if natural resources were said to be state property. So everything that this law wants to predict, prescribe, impose, would be contrary to the Constitution. It was about state property, which some colleagues were particularly interested in from Vojvodina, when it came to railways, roads, bridges, water, forests, channel network, national parks, buildings, etc. We have had a bitter experience in the past with such laws, especially the 1974 Constitution, which allowed the AP KIM to behave and distance itself from the state of its composition. First they started it off with the police, demanding they have as police authorities, then the judiciary, the prosecution, the military, and even some brigades on certain territory, as bodies that should tomorrow be, God forbid, in office and against the state of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to distinguish and specify exactly what property means, which means availability, which means use. It is not disputed that local self-government authorities should be empowered to use and regulate jobs in the territory of the city or municipality, but in a way that should not be affected by the powers and rights of the state of the Republic of Serbia. Some of the efforts of some MPs are directed in that direction that, God forbid, it should come to a situation with kiM that someone is looking for a republic. The first features are rail, post office, electrical system, they are in every state facilities and institutions and resources of particular importance to the state. Therefore, the SRS does not consider good solutions given in this bill. What is noticed, the Proposer points out - will be regulated by a special law, regulated by a special law, etc. You have in one article five or six times, but the promoter doesn't say which law it's laid down, which law it's governed by, which law it's in accordance with. This should be foreseen, Mr. Minister, for those who need to apply this law, not to ask for seven days of the regulations to which it applies or refer, but to the precise norms and in norms are said – if this law is not different, both the team and the team, the team and the team. Does the Law on Property Legal Relations? Does the Law on Bond Relations, etc.? It's interesting, too, this final attitude of Article 10. – on goods in general use, the right provided for in the specific law, concession and lease may be obtained. What does it mean to rent a bridge? Should we rent the railroad? I think there's a flaw and there's a leak. There are good amendments, so we suggest you think about them, and if you think they are effective, and we in the SRS think they are, because they better regulate relations from the locals, the province and the Republic and the state remains the state's head of property, that no one can play with it, nor to tear up this catastrian plot, which is called the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60915	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60916	I disagree with the amendment tabled, and I suggest that on the day that we decide on the law in particular we do not accept it. I believe that the proposed solution in the bill, together with the amendments to the government, is a good solution and is in agreement with Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the position 1 and that second sentence, which provides that public property is state property, property of an autonomous province, property of a unit of local self-government. Then, I must point out that the absolutely draft law with the amendments tabled is in agreement with Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is defined that natural resources are in state property. Then, the good, which the law stipulates to be of general interest, is in state property. The Constitution itself allows for the goods, which are otherwise assessed by law, to be in state property, to be owned by an autonomous province and owned by a unit of local self-government. So in that sense, I think it's absolutely fine. Finally, since the wording, regardless of what the amendment has been submitted to paragraph 5, is also mentioned the final position of the original text of the bill, without amendments, where it is said that good in general use can be obtained by a special law, and it states in brackets – concession, lease and the like, I suggest that the amendments to the Government have amended that text itself. But even here, even if the text remained unchanged, there is no such thing as volunteerism, but only by law can a certain thing be established, to obtain the right provided for by a special law. So, the condition for concession and lease is the existence of law in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60917	It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60918	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mikovic, I ask you as a lawyer and as a lawyer who is respected by a large number of people, I know that, in your area, that you are an expert man, don't let us lead the public astray. I guess the constitution reads the same thing between you and me. The Constitution makes it clear. Here, if I read a comma wrong, you correct me. So it's about good of general interest, Article 87. I'm gonna have to read that article. So, the Constitution speaks of natural wealth. It says -- natural wealth, so it lists the goods that the law stipulates are of general interest and property used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in state property. In state property there can be other things and rights in accordance with the law. What's not clear now, please? How can it now be in some other property, when the Constitution says it is good of general interest exclusively in state property? I'm sure you can read it and interpret it. Physical and legal persons, in a second position, the Constitution tells us nicely, can gain individual rights on certain goods in general use, under conditions and in the way provided for by law, but cannot property. They can't handle them, they can use them, they can take care of them, they can manage them, what the state tells them. They can have the right to the fruit of pleasure. That, too, I'm sure, you know. So, somehow it seems nice to you now, that the public hears in these smaller environments, in the municipalities, now let's tell the people in the municipalities, knowing the mentality of our people, and not enough knowledge about this matter, that they will like it. Every village in Serbia, I'm sure, would like to be a municipality. These people don't have to know how much it costs the state, or how much it costs them themselves, but we have to tell them, that it's not good, that it's not rational, that it's just buying up the functioning of the state and that each of us will, in an indirect or direct way, feel it. So it's not about any decentralisation, that we understand each other. That park, which you were talking about, in Panchevo, and which the town of Panchevo takes care of and needs to take care of, he has the authority to use it, to manage it, and to take care of it. Who else would it be? You don't think the government is going to discuss the park in Pancheva? But whose money is it, what would you say? Tax taxpayers. That is why it is separate in the budget for the needs of towns and municipalities in Serbia, to take care of these things. Because we know for ourselves, it's a clear definition of local self-government. What are we giving her? We give her what's in the citizens' interest to get rid of her at that level. We can't give local self-government jurisdiction to take care of pensions now that we know he can't. It's not in the interest of citizens or local self-government. Let's just be smart enough and conscious enough not to mix grandmothers and frogs. There must be certain levels of government, you must know who's responsible for what. Although this debate, I must say, with those who are closely following it, in a way, is very good for me, because you are most critical of the Serbian government. You don't trust all these governments of yours. You said clearly that you couldn't do this, you couldn't do that, you couldn't do that, you couldn't be rational, you weren't efficient, you weren't fast enough, you weren't taking care of us, we now have to do it as ourselves at the local level. But that's not the point. If they're incompetent, some others will be capable. You must know who's responsible. If we're not able to control this government here, and how are we going to do this, I'm going to ask nicely to control everything you imagine local self-government or the AP Vojvodina is going to work? We'll have no idea. Now let's read in the yellow press or the scribe's pigeon to tell us what's going on or how the property is arching! I return only to the Constitution, therefore, the letter of the Constitution that there are no other stories. It is clear that good in general use can only be owned by the Republic of Serbia, or only it can be available to them, anything else can be discussed whether it should be given to this or that. I agree that you need to lower yourself to a lower level, that's so normal, but do you want to sell that park? What do you care so much about being owned, say, by the city of Panchev? They want to sell it? He won't sell it. I mean, it wouldn't be normal for you to sell it. Come on, let's go. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Maybe someone from Belgrade comes from Vrachar and buys it, so what are you going to do later, and he can come from abroad and buy it, so what are you going to do after? A little bit of that story you know, it doesn't hold water, it sounds nice if we listen to it superficially, but if we want to focus on that issue, so it's in the interests of all Serbian citizens and be in the interest of the state, then we have to put it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60919	Six minutes used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60920	In any case, you cannot deny the right to local self-government, including autonomous provinces, so that they can acquire the rights of good in general use. The very attitude of Article 2 of Article 87 even says that even natural and legal persons, so individuals can gain individual rights of certain good in general use. Even individual rights are permitted by natural persons, and the property itself and the public property of the unit of local self-government is guaranteed in Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now, if those who voted the Constitution of the RS now deny the rights to local self-government units that they could have public property, then I wonder when we were honest, is it then when the Constitution was adopted, or now that we have to implement it through the law we decide on? In any case, I believe it is absolutely in agreement with the Constitution and the bill, along with the amendments to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60921	One minute and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60922	Mr. Djelic, we have already told our judgment of this law, especially of his members on the 9th and 10th. However, if you have followed well and when it comes to Articles 9 and 2 and 3 and Article 10 of Article 6, we have suggested that the word "using" be replaced by "uses". We cannot accept the argument that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed solution is more appropriate. Mr. Djelic, I can be more suitablely trained to enter the congregation or more suitably trained on atmospheric occasions that rule outside the congregation. If it had been written here that it was not accepted because the proposed solution was more linguistically correct, we would have accepted it. Mr. Djelic, Article 6 says that one who manages or uses good of general interest in public property should act as a good host. I can tell you the good host is using, and the bad host is using. That was also one of the reasons why we asked for this to be more linguistically correct in this law. This explanation, which has been given, can be said to be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60923	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to us that this law is quite full of some general definitions and indeterminateness, so it seems to us that even in this article, where the network is defined, we don't have the right definition of the network. I don't know why you go with such general definitions. Is the reason not to cause any unnecessary conflict between the republican and the provinceal governments. Anyway, I think our definition of the network is much better. We've suggested changing the complete position one. We believe that this should clearly list what the network means and that it should be complemented by rail, telecommunications networks, electronic communications networks, that it has been missed in this position. We also seem to lack urban transport services in the definition of the network. So, the tramway, the trolleybus, the subway, all of this, according to us, was to be clearly defined in Article 11. The law. We consider it a major failure to accept this amendment to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60925	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as Art. The 9th and 10th, and this member, in a very open way, illustrates how vile things are in the provisions of this law, which, with completely irrelevant, irrelevant topics, are trying to conceal and behind which the essence of the law is to be hidden. Whether she's conscious or unconscious, for us it's completely irrelevant, the consequences are absolutely the same. Article 11 regulates the network. Mr. Minister, the position of the 3rd member states this way: "The network which carries out the economic activity of providing services by legal persons established by public property holders is in public property." What do you write in the following article: "Extremely from the position of the 3rd member, a special law can be found that the networks of that attitude can be owned by a legal person, founded by the Republic of Serbia, for the provision of services or its dependent person". Mr. Minister, being founded by the Republic of Serbia does not mean that in six, seven, eight months or a year it will be owned by majority or absolute property. You didn't write here that they owned the RS, but "whose is the founder of the RS". Mr. NIS founded the Republic of Serbia, but NIS is now 49% owned by the Republic of Serbia, and the Russians own 51%. Explain to us, Mr. Minister, how you're gonna stop the networks you're talking about, and they're supposed to be under the Law of Public Property, they don't get into the hands of some private investors tomorrow, because who knows what kind of debauchery they're hiding because of your political nature in the concept of public and private partnership. One question, Mr. Minister, if you'd let me answer. This is important to me. When the ownership structure of this public company is changed through time, and that public enterprise run by the network goes into bankruptcy, be kind enough to explain to me and the SRS and fellow MPs whether the property that has to be in public property will be kept in line with the trustee? Look how mean it is. This is in full agreement with your vile intentions regarding the Law on Community Works that you are preparing to bring to us in this Assembly and professional and every other public has raised their voice against the concept of municipal services, the Law on Community Action that you want to push into this Assembly, this is exactly in line with that. This means you're going to take public property. In this country, gentlemen, there are several hundreds of public enterprises, 90 percent in losses and due diligence. You give these companies property, and what happens the moment the trustees start looking for their own? What happens when one day, and one day they have to, comes someone who respects the Banking Act and those companies that are insolvent, insolvent, blocked accounts, like this or like, enter into bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings. What kind of property are you gonna make trustees out of? You've been setting up directors, you've been arching public property, you've been closing your eyes on robberies through public procurement, through tenders, through all of this, it's been your directors, not the directors of the SRS, and now you're going to have these bahanalias politically and economically to make up for state property. The property of the Republic of Serbia will now pay for your incompetence or irresponsibility or criminal nature. That is why the SRS is against what you are after both the Assembly and the public and you are selling to the public the fog that will improve the position of the province and local self-government and the Republic eventually, when this law is passed. This is, I repeat, for the SRS, a continuation of economic, political and any other destruction of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60927	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60928	Just to remind you, good of the general interest and good in the general use of public property is a state property. Only the Republic of Serbia has the right to dispose. You can write whatever you want in your laws, I don't admit it. I call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to admit it. First and foremost. Another thing, how is it possible for a network to be owned by something that cannot be the bearer of property rights? How can you represent one position in the Law of Railways, in this law you represent another position? What do you hate about the Republic of Serbia? How can a log, how can this infrastructure be right to have someone you hereby define as bearers of public property rights? So you say AP unit local self-government. You're saying here you don't want anything, but you wrote, according to this law as it's written, what's good with the general interest? Did you see what the government wrote in Article 10? I don't want to talk to you. You have a situation with the Vojvodina that someone will sell the channel, because if you recognize the AP right of public property on the channels as good of general interest, then they have the right to have, use and manage. Give the AP, the unit of local self-government the right to management and use but not the right to dispose, and you give the right to make yourself available. And we heard just before from a bandit who was stealing electricity that city traffic is also a network. It's a matter of general interest, what are we talking about, people? Do you know what, do you think that you invented public enterprises and actions of general interest? These are categories that exist for 300 years, you know what I mean? The theory has mastered it long ago, practice has mastered it long ago. I read the Protocol to you yesterday, Article 1. The first protocol that gives primate to the state to prescribe it itself in the public interest everything, and you give it up. Like Svetozar Pribićevic, when in 1928 he advised King Alexander to reduce the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60929	People's MP on the subject of the agenda, otherwise we could have the emperor sold Alaska and Napoleon to Louisiana.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60930	Who? What did Napoleon do?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60931	He sold Alaska.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60932	How do you know that? Did you attend the signing of the contract?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60933	It's in the papers, please, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60934	Wait, Mrs. Comic, let it go, so I'll talk about the agenda. So how can a network be owned by local self-government? What are you talking about? Besides, we don't even know what bill we're talking about today? We have one text and we have 18 amendments, so we have 18 amendments to the government on the same day, so the U.S. has signed up with the amendments, and then the autonomists are called with the amendments, so the ones they're supposed to play here...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60935	People's MP, you have an amendment that has been submitted by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet, I ask you about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60936	That's what I'm talking about, that amendment is covered, it's about Article 11. Do you see how many amendments have been submitted to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60937	The amendment reads that Article 11 states that one of the views is deleted, so please explain the amendment submitted by your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60938	I know very well what I'm talking about, Mrs. Comic, I'm warning all those who are most and who are going to vote on this bill. Be careful, you also voted for the 1000-euro Free Action Act, you voted for the Milli Act, you laughed, you convinced us that we were wrong, and after a few months you admit that we were right. This kind of impotence of the Republic Government to meet the Constitution and the law of the prescribed jurisdiction is scandalous only because every village wants a bogeyman and then the decommissioning goes and then the use and management is placed in the same basket as the available one. And you pretend there's no availability. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60939	The time available to your MP group is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60940	Mrs. Comic, I can hardly explain property law to you. Based on this law, it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60941	Ambassador, it's about measuring time. The time available to your MP group has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60942	It seems to you, our time is yet to come. [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60943	I don't think so. I know I'm looking at the clock. The 11th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60944	Article 11. refers to these famous networks. The definition of the network seems not so bad, but here we find that the networks are good for the general interest, that they are good for the general interest and good for the general use and other things that are laid down by law as good for the general interest, which is also agricultural land and forests and forest land and water land and water facilities in public property, protected natural goods, cultural goods in public property and others. And then you tell us in this attitude 5, which I would like to delete, I suggest, that the network, that is, part of the network that serves exclusively for the needs of the public or more, may be owned by one or more persons by that person, or those persons. It's an absolutely vague provision and I don't know what it is, nor is anyone able to explain it to us. If you've already gone to such tiny intestines, which you haven't written here and whose network is built with self-dependence, or otherwise. We finance, say, citizens themselves building a PTT network, or an electrical network. We've built our own roads and what we're not, waterways, sewers, everything, I'm spreading the story a little bit, but it's not ours, especially when it comes to gas networks. Gas pipelines, citizens finance network construction, pay connections, but they're not owners. By this law, if you wanted to disenfranchise it, to share it, so why didn't you bring us citizens here as some who could be the owners of it? Why am I not the owner of a piece of that gas network that goes through my street and I'm funding or one of the citizens? No, I don't. You're all round and round here, but Mrs. Jerkov says that "Blic" is being declared that, in addition to all this, this MP group is asking that the province has both PTT and Elektroprivred, and that the Vojvodjans, I don't know who they are, are being compensated for their property over the highways. How is that compensated for property over highways? That's where you see what's going on behind this bill, and that's a partial balance. That's what we said in the principle debate, that's what you want. (President: In principle debate, MPs talked about it. Now there's a search in detail, and I'm asking you about the amendment. ) I am talking, Mrs. Comic, about the amendment: (President: No, don't talk about the amendment, because I know what the amendment is about. What's your suggestion? Please, the principle search is, in principle, a search in detail, I demand that you speak of an amendment. I can only discuss this with the authorised representative of the government, Mr. Djelic. He's not listening to me right now. (President: National MPs, you are obliged to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to speak on the subject of the agenda. Now it's a search in detail, you got your word, so you're talking about the amendment you submitted. So it's about respecting the Rules of Procedure you're violating despite my warning. You have another minute if you want to sign up on the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, I have not broken a single member of the Rules of Procedure. (President: National MPs, when I address you with a warning that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I address you because I listen carefully to every MP of the people and because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are that the MP is obliged to speak and the agenda is clear, that I cannot be clearer, as well as the duties of the chairman to impose criminal measures on the MP who refuses to speak on the subject of the agenda. When I warn you, it is a sign that you return to the agenda and that this is how we work together to apply the Rules of Procedure. You have one more minute, please. If we weren't wasting valuable time, Mr. Djelic, it would be nice if you took part in the debate. So my amendment exclusively requires that this attitude of Article 11, Article 11, which speaks of a network, or part of a network that serves exclusively for the needs of one or more persons, because we don't know who these are, we don't know what it is in practice, can be owned by that person or those persons. Since there is no one to give us an answer, nor has the Government given an adequate answer as to why this amendment is not accepted, I ask the Prime Minister to consider this possibility at the session itself, because other amendments, as far as I can see, do not exist in this position of the law, and it will cause a great confusion in the application of this law. I told you about the public property, unfortunately, I don't think Mr. Djelic is competent enough to talk to us, but he did, but he kind of did, and you didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60945	Thank you. This used the time at your disposal as representatives of the parliamentary group. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is by MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60946	Dear citizens of Serbia, dear colleagues, I would primarily like to say that SNS MPs have submitted a number of amendments that we have made clearer, more precise and simpler definitions of certain terms and concepts in terms of this law. With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the legislator that, for the sake of his easier interpretation, he should have used simpler and more unique terminology, and this refers to both this bill and all the proposals of the laws that will be delivered to us in the future. We propose to the amendment that matters in public property used by bodies and organisations of public property bearers are mobile and immovable matters intended to exercise their competences. We believe that it is enough to use the term – public property holders, instead of individual guidance – public property holders, as provided for by the law. If our amendment is accepted, consistency will be respected, i.e. in Article 12 and Article 20(1), the same term will be used for the same thing, not different, as it is done in the bill. I urge you once again to consider the amendment of the SNS parliamentary group, because I think our amendment is a better solution than the proposed one.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60947	The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60948	And this amendment refers to a more precise and clearer definition of terms. Reading this bill gives the impression that the legislator was guided by the principle of why it is simple, when it can be complicated. In addition to my claim, Article 13, which as a member of the 12, is badly formulated. We have submitted the amendment and we have proposed a clearer formulation of this member of the bill and once again I want to point out how important it is that the law is accompanied by a unique precise terminology, which will also follow consistency from the first to the last member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60949	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60950	And I can defend this amendment about as much as I did the previous amendment and ask for an answer, but I didn't get it. In this amendment we continue the principled position of the SRS, that property, property, should be owned, the head of state must be the Republic of Serbia, the use of both provinces and units of local self-government and none of the work, of general interest, of public affairs, for which it is perfectly natural to perform local self-government, because it is closest to the citizens, will not and cannot be denied. You could have done anything by now, and the only thing was whether or not you wanted to. That's why we think it's a hoax with giving property to the local government of the AP. The talk here is that local public enterprises will have property and that they will acquire shares or actions in public enterprises, in public enterprises that are in full due diligence on the basis of this property. That property will be settled tomorrow by the trusts due to these dubiosises. Why? What's this about? Whether that's how much your own state despises or whether it's ignorance. What's this about? Why would something that didn't have to be accepted here? Simply, local public enterprises are doing the work, they have everything they need, what property, what local self-government will get, if they get the right to share and action in companies that have been destroyed and destroyed, they'll only get headaches and you'll be responsible for everything that's happened in the last 10 years in the public sector, in this way you want to collect and settle your obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60951	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60952	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in Section – Investment in capital and transfer of rights of use. What we wanted by amendment to Article 14 that deals with investment in capital and transfer of rights of use are amendments to Article 1 and 2. Because we believe that the restrictions on investment in capital companies alone are not really understandable and we do not understand why the holder of public property rights, in this case the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government, have restrictions that they can invest only in the company of a person and not in all companies? Why would they limit this country to, say, being a commanding officer in a commanding society, where a private partner would be a complement? We believe that these restrictions in paragraph 1 should be deleted and the possibility of investment by the rightholder of public property should only be allowed to take due account of the decision-making and the way in which the investment is made. That's more necessary than the limitations that you've stated in attitude 1. We tried to simplify the mentioned point 2 by changing attitude 2. The bill, since it is clear that the acquisition of shares or actions acquires the rights that are incorporated into them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60953	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60954	I asked this amendment to say, "Autonomic province and units of local self-government" in article 1st, paragraph 14. This is about the property of public enterprises. On account of this, when it comes to public enterprises, Mr. Minister, I would like to raise one very important question. It's about the next one. Your desire to record the property of public enterprises is, I would say, a newer date. You said that in the principle debate. However, do you know that the capital records of public enterprises' assets have been under way for some time now, but for the term of office of your government, this country is already working? Whether with your knowledge or without your knowledge, without the knowledge of your government, I'd like to hear it from you. I'd like you to answer me clearly and unequivocally after what I've asked you. And here's the thing. I was personally present when, once at a time from a Belgrade office, some say European offices, a telephone call came into a public company, a local public company... (President: People's Parliament, I beg you on the subject of the agenda. ) It is about recording the capital of a public undertaking. (President: People's Parliament, I beg you on the subject of the agenda. ) It is a matter of recording the capital of a public undertaking, Mr Minister, and this recording of the capital of a public undertaking is already being carried out. I want to tell you that's what people are already doing. You said – it must start with the recording of capital of public enterprises, local public enterprises. One German calls a public firm and asks about the property of a local public enterprise, and the man knows everything, knows what the property of a public enterprise is, knows what its capital is, knows what the balance sheet is, just to check it out. (President: National MP, I ask you to connect what you say to the text of your amendment or to take seriously my warning that the Rules of Procedure must be respected. Mr. Djelic, position one of this amendment that I have submitted... (President: National MP, your amendment is to Article 14(2)) I have the right to read attitude one. (President: National MP, then submit the amendment to Section 1 and I ask you to stop mocking the obligations that you and I have. ) (ZORAN KRASIĆ, from the place: You mock. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60955	I ask the People's Messengers of Zoran Krasic, Sulejman Spah, not to profit. If you wish to exercise the right that only your parliamentary group or only individual MPs, and MP Sretu Perić, please do not throw away, therefore, if you feel that you have the right to disrupt the order at the meeting of the National Assembly by not only you will be subject to the right written in all of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then I am telling you that it is my obligation to take care of the order and to prevent it. This is the last warning for all those who believe that an incident can result in no written right to an incident in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Suleyman Spaho, from the scene: I am a national minority, do not discriminate against me. ) National MP Suleiman Spaho, you now have a serious warning to throw away. It says in the Rules of Procedure it's forbidden. People's MP Mirko Munjic, you've taken advantage of two minutes. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60956	Let me just distract you. If you follow, see article 15 and be on the subject. With this amendment, I asked to delete attitude 1, which speaks of a co-inheritance between the rightholders of public property. The biggest stupidity I could see. They could be the Republic and the AP. Where do you think you're going? The republic and unit of local self-government, and according to one member, it may even be a city municipality. Please patent this when you join the EU. But from this wrong concept based on principle – co-adoptedness, they have the same property rights, the right to use, management and availability. See what it says in the following attitudes that naturally follow the logic of the first attitude. He says it's also possible for the good of the general interest. What good is common interest? Agricultural land, forests and forest land, water facilities. So water facilities will be in the same regime with the same property rights of the Republic, the autonomous province, the local self-government unit. If, God forbid, Mikovic prevails, then there will be both local communities and streets and apartments. The biggest nonsense that could be devised and entered, which is legally unsustainable. Let me not tell you about attitude three disabling everything that's written. People, you're withdrawing this law, because I'm going to make a comedy out of all this stuff you've written and what nonsense you've presented to European values. I agree with you, these nonsense are European values, but, Mr. Djelic, this people have brains and they don't want to share this nonsense with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60957	Two minutes. Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60958	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, has submitted a total of 6 amendments to our satisfaction and to our satisfaction two amendments almost in the identical text, the Government has accepted the submission of its amendments and they refer to Article 29 and Article 32, which more precisely defines and determines as the rule of alienation and procurement of public property through public competition. However, when it comes to this amendment and the other three amendments to the SAA remain with them, and as an authorised representative, I want to explain them briefly, above all, because we are not confident enough, and from the government's reasoning that the amendments are being rejected, there is no fundamental reason to reject the amendments. In particular, for this amendment the explanation is brief – the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed solution is more appropriate. Our idea was basically that logical and correct that the immobility of public property and weapons and special equipment could not be subject to forced enforcement, but the problem could arise in the presence of a multitude of bodies and persons and in the event of acquisition of public property, contrary to the provisions of this law. In this regard, we do not believe that there is a defined body that would arbitration in the situation of non-comfortible enforcement on that public property, could not be satisfied with justice, and in this regard we have suggested that forced enforcement is possible on that public property that would eventually be acquired against the provisions of this law. We think it's one logical and very operational solution that can rule out all possible problems that would arise in one of these specific situations. I'm going to use the time of my authorised representative, the chairman, so I'm going to take the opportunity to say something about the next three amendments, to state my views, and I won't answer again. We have submitted an amendment wishing to shorten the deadline for submitting requests and we appreciate that it is a system law very important for the state, where the practical realization of the state is carried out in terms of one necessary decentralisation at this point. We have also heard the views of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, people from practice who claim that this law is indeed according to all the parameters and criteria that satisfy the better work of local self-government, that it will allow faster handling of property, that it will enable a better environment for investors, and then it happens to us that the original proposal in the draft, that this deadline is one year, that we come to a proposal of three years, and some other proposals it extends to a much longer period. We believe that this law in this form will have good positive effects and therefore we really don't understand why this deadline extends from one to three years. We have proposed a compromise solution, to make it two, estimating that really deadlines should not enter into the core and essence of the law, but it is generally known that long legal deadlines can produce ineffectiveness in the application of legal norms. For this reason, we want first and foremost to appeal to all local self-government in the Republic of Serbia, to take the provisions of this law seriously. They should already be prepared, as constitutional grounds were created as early as in 2006, and if not, to do so as soon as possible and to initiate this process, so that the positive effects of this legislative proposal are felt as soon as possible. So I really believe, as in other proposals, that this deadline should be reduced from three to two years. The next amendment that we have submitted, it seems to me to be very important, is an amendment that is also related to some of the provisions of the laws that are also in the public debate -- the law on the return of property and compensation, the law on restitution. This is an amendment to Article 77(6). Unfortunately, we have the same argument that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed solution is more appropriate. We believe that this attitude that is outside the draft proposal has come to be an added attitude. It creates certain assumptions for obstruction and directly affects the possibility of implementing, as I said, the law on the return of the seized property and the compensation, above all, the possibility of implementing its very spirit and the intensity to return the property to nature. A dangerous exception to the overall legal solution is being introduced, as the bill discussed in yesterday's debate, which will be discussed tomorrow, clearly defines the deadlines for Article 42, also sets out the proposal for a member of the 63rd start of the Agency's work in 2012. All of this points to the possible option that this exception, Article 77 of Article 6 practically leads to a book of public property, perhaps its alienation, before it is possible to indicate that this immobility may be the subject of vomiting. We don't really know why this someone else, the Republic Geodetic Institute, would, for example, without any procedure or deadline for meeting the prescribed conditions, and indirectly and unequivocally, determine the return of property in a natural form. We think it's a big space for abuse. We also talked about it in principle when it comes to the law on public property, and this law on restitution. We believe that this initial, perhaps financial effect that the Deputy Prime Minister himself spoke of would be significantly greater than 4.5 or 4.6 billion euros. This space would, I say, create certain conditions for abuse. We believe that this amendment to delete article 6 is to be accepted. In the end, I'd like to say... (Zoran Krasic from the post: Which member? ) (President: National MP Zorana Krasic, you have the final warning of saying a series of warnings, along with one of his fellow MPs, who with will, enthusiasm and apparently with strategy, are beginning to disrupt the order of the National Assembly session. This is the last warning. If we can, I'd really like to ask you without giving me any punishment. The same goes for Parliament's Gordan Pop-Lazic. In the end, I would like to say that also in the principle of discussion, we have potentiated Article 82 and the problem of conqualification, first of all, point 2. We also have a solution and a response from the government that cannot satisfy the explanation we expected. We believe that it is very instructive to delete this position of Article 2 of the 82nd. Given how we have both in principle and in reason, we have had the opportunity to see for ourselves by the government, we believe that our amendments are good and we continue to do so. We support in principle a law which, as the ultimate outcome and result, will determine who owns what in the state of Serbia. We believe this law meets constitutional standards. It still well expresses the criteria it has taken, which is to translate the right of use into property rights. However, there are many territorial principles in these changes, but we still believe that it is in some permitted norms and measures that provide the necessary degree of decentralisation. We understand that it is a system law and we appreciate that it will really be necessary and that this is one reorganisation of the state administration, and in this sense we will need a different level of government to fully function. In that sense, we support him. We believe that all SPS amendments should be accepted because they would improve this law in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60959	A total of nine minutes and 30 seconds was used. Of that, two minutes as an applicant for the amendment. The remaining time is the authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60960	First of all, I want to express not only the dissatisfaction, but also the surprise that I can translate into the disquieting state for my own property, and in the event of a forced execution, by not adopting our amendment to Article 16. In order for citizens to understand what this is all about, the Government has proposed this – natural wealth, good in general use, about which we do not generally argue, networks in public property, we argue about this because you did not well define networks, comprehensive and all, water land and water facilities, protected natural goods, cultural goods in public property cannot be the subject of execution. So, this member of the law is talking about what of what is particularly valuable to the state of Serbia cannot in the event of forced execution be subject to enforcement. You, although you didn't accept yesterday that you have expanded and fully defined all the networks that can appear as infrastructure that serves everyone, not that you haven't applied that member of the law, but even this one where you put into a situation, not by listing what's good in general use, especially for the state and the citizens, and that it can't be taken away in that procedure, I don't know why, you say that your definition of this article is 16 more appropriate. Here's what we suggested. Natural wealth, good of general interest, good in general use cannot be the subject of forced execution. In the case of public property assets which are wholly or partly used by bodies and bodies of public property holders intended to exercise their competences in public property properties, on which the right to use has legal persons whose right is the founder of the right of public property, because we call the Republic, the province and local self-government unique – the holders of public property rights which do not have the status of a public undertaking or of a company. Even they need to be protected because they can come into this process and we say that the subject of coercion cannot be a matter of special purpose. You have defined these "things of special purpose" through your proposal as a subject of coercion cannot be objects, weapons and equipment designed to defend both national and public security. Have you heard that it is now called – means of special purpose, without such an alleged broader but in fact narrow definition? Do you not understand, I really wonder, Mr. Djelic, that there is a danger that by defining Article 16, you have not listed all good or special purposes, or any good of general interest which has been declared as such by some of the laws or can be declared. Let me tell you again, for example. subways. We'll build them. And then we want to change this law and say that subways fall under what's called a network in general use and that it can't be the subject of forced execution? You didn't count that. I said, the infrastructure of the tramway, the trolleybus tracks that are in public roads, but not necessarily part of the public road, these definitions can be the subject of forced execution. Today another Spanish tram was released in traffic. Here we have adopted an agreement under which we have granted a loan of such a type, from which we buy mainly from suppliers he says – Spanish creditors etc. and, for example, if we didn't return that loan in time, you didn't protect that infrastructure by defining Article 16 of the mandatory enforcement in case of default. I admire that in your conviction that you have perfectly defined Article 16 you leave unprotected total means of special purpose, that you leave unprotected from the forced execution of the network in the general use that you have unequivocally defined and that I want it never to happen that you make such a definition completely possible, which is that both such networks and goods are put at risk from the execution of the non-use of Serbian citizens, it will never occur to anyone to pull out those tracks or use that subway, but it may have the right to especially charge for the use of that good over which the forced execution has been realized. Keep that in mind, I warn you in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60961	It was used three minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic-Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic has submitted an amendment to section 2, title above Articles 18 and 18. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60962	Mr. Djelic, I'm sorry to interrupt. I've submitted an amendment to Article 18, not 75. I ask that the title and this be deleted, because this is completely pointless. This is one member where anything is possible. The city is the bearer of real public property. City municipalities can be users of public property, but if they agree to change the provisions in the statute of the City Assembly, the city municipality can also be the bearer of public property. This member should regulate the use. It's one of the property rights. Mr. Djelic, when it comes to property, it is said that property is a set of property rights. When you talk about property as a complete right, then you talk about the right to have, to use and to manage. Each right within the right of property has its features, its contents, its essence, its elements, and its own regime. No one invented a new hole in the potty if the holder of the right to use, manage and dispose, so he transferred his right of use to someone. That's no problem. That's a long time ago. More Romans have written books on this. But I get the impression, getting into this pressurised writing adventure and with great satisfaction from a bill that needs to provide a paraphras in October or November, that you have annulled Roman law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60963	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 18 and 18. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60964	Thank you. An amendment to Article 18 shall be brought into line with the amendment which we have tabled to Article 2. With this amendment, we have proposed eradicating Article 1, since the amendments we have submitted to Article 2, we have set out the holders of the right of public property, and accordingly we have proposed to amend the title of this article. Item 6 which becomes position 5 is amended and reads – legal persons whose founder is a public property right holder who do not have the status of public undertakings or of an apparent society, institutions, state bodies or organisations that have legal personality status, are entitled to use the property transferred to them for use. We have simplified attitude 5 and, more importantly, we have specified which organs and organisations are involved, since we are also meeting an inappropriately long and complex definition in this article. For the reasons I have stated, I believe that the amendment is better than the solution given in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60965	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. There's no answer for word. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Mr. Laszlo Varga has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60966	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, given this centralist atmosphere, the centralist spirit, I think my chances are extremely small to convince you of the arguments of these amendments, but I'd better try, you will answer me either at the end and definitely reject these two virtually two amendments that concern the same issue, to the position of city municipalities, or local communities. The draft law lays down or provides for one property-law regime under which urban municipalities may be entitled to use on matters owned by the city. On the other hand, they can supply funds and pass those funds into the property of the city, and on the third hand, things necessary for the work of the authorities and city municipalities organisations and city municipalities can acquire property rights. All of this only partially refers to local communities. They can only have the right to use on the one hand, we disagree with this concept, that is, of course, one political issue, but, on the other hand, there is one additional reason which is also more or less political, but a little bit and essential, and that refers to Article 22 which is related to this Article 18. According to Article 22, the practical unit of local self-government, which will acquire property over the property used by local communities, will have the right and the possibility to confiscate that property or that property from local communities. There are envisaged options, several situations are envisaged in which the property can be seized or recovered. We are convinced that this will in practice lead to abuse. In doing so, we have proposed one amendment, i.e. three positions, practically on Article 18, whose essence would be that, on the one hand, those assets that are necessary for the work of local communities, as well as city municipalities, be in the property of city municipalities, or local communities. Those assets, which are currently being used today and where urban municipalities or local communities are registered, to be transferred to permanent use, and all other assets, which have been transferred, of course, to be transferred to the right of use, which can later be abolished, or taken away. The government refused, of course, both of our amendments. One with an explanation that this is a solution that we have proposed covered by the government's amendments. It doesn't stand, simply, for the Government's amendments to the People's Bank, they have nothing to do with this amendment. The second amendment explains that this proposal is not in line with the basic concept of the law. We can accept that, of course, in a way that we disagree. What's going to be in practice is the situation, and I'd like to explain it on one side. On the one hand, now, at this moment, the existing local community, the numerous, at least in Vojvodina, have their own property. So, not only are they listed as users, but they also have their own property as owners, which they practically acquired by their own means. I think it would be a paradoxical situation in which the local community has so far had the opportunity to acquire property, and after the entry into force of this law, they practically couldn't do it. So, they wouldn't have the right to supply property, everything would go to local self-government. On the other hand, this is the key reason why we have submitted these amendments, is the possibility of taking away those immovableities used by local communities, as it is possible, according to Article 22, and this decision can be made by local self-government. Why is that a problem? Because numerous local communities, on the one hand, have buildings where local communities are the bodies of congregations and some other local authorities, but on the other hand, numerous local communities also use immobilities, example works, business premises, which issue and thus earn income. What happens if this solution, which contains the bill, is accepted? We will have a situation that in all units of local self-government, the will of the congregation's majority will depend on whether these commercial immovableities, which do not have to have local communities, but may have, will be taken away from the local communities. Given the political life that is taking place in Serbia, we are sure to get into this situation in a number of places. That's why we suggested what we suggested. We claim and think that there are no conflicting arguments, there is no legal obstacle, there may be a political obstacle, but there is no legal obstacle to accepting our solution. Because if public enterprises, which are also not a constitutional category, can own their property, then there is no reason why the local communities can't have it. You said in principle in the debate, speaking of urban municipalities, that this solution is impossible to accept, because city municipalities are also a constitutional category, but their formation is not mandatory. That's true, but we're not asking that any property or property be given to those local communities or those city municipalities that aren't formed, but on the contrary, the ones that exist, that function and are listed as holders of the rights of use. I think the spirit of decentralisation would require that some other parliamentary groups, which otherwise advocate decentralisation, do not seek this right only for the city's municipalities. Namely, what city municipalities are in Belgrade, Nis and some other cities, they are practically local communities in municipalities. So, in Belgrade, the city municipality, in the municipalities of the local community. There's a lot of parlays in there, and we're simply proposing this for that reason. On the other hand, there is one difference between city municipalities, which is that in villages it is mandatory to form local communities, according to the Law on Local Self-Government. If the obligation exists, this means that the practical position, the legal position of local communities, is even stronger than the urban municipalities. If urban municipalities have the possibility of obtaining property, then there should be no reason why the right of the local community does not. Of course, I have no illusion that you will consider all this one more time in a way that will result in the adoption of this amendment, but then at least consider the amendment of my colleague Popovic, which is a partial solution to all of this we have proposed, because this amendment proposes to abolish the possibility of taking away property from local communities, i.e. urban municipalities. That would be some minimum that could, of course, be acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60967	Thank you. This is the time spent to discuss the parliamentary group. The word has a minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60968	Let me just say for a moment that what is proposed in this law is the maximum possible under the existing Constitution, both for the city's municipalities and for the local communities. The maximum that was possible under the Constitution is what was provided in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60969	Thank you. Mr. Laszlo, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60970	Of course I'm unhappy with this explanation, because you didn't state why it was maximum. So, if this is the maximum, then you had to specify the attitude, the member, anything from the Constitution, so I could read and see in the same way what you're saying. I claim that if property can be transferred to public enterprises by this law on public property, then I do not see that constitutional restriction why it cannot be done the same with local communities, or city municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60971	Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60972	A member of our 189th Constitution. The difference is that when we talk about the transfer, when the public property bearer invests property in the company, he gets shares. You can't get into the capital of the local community, simply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60973	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. The word is Judita Popovic, and the word is Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60974	The chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that our solution actually changes the important approach to local self-government, that is, in this case, urban municipalities. This just means that by giving support to this one step, literally one step, which was taken with this proposal of the Public Property Act, we are not giving up the expectation that the next step will be taken, and all in this direction is some more serious decentralisation and transfer of authority and property to the next levels of territorial organisation, such as the province or units of local self-government. This position 4 provides for the law that the town's statute can provide that the city's municipality has the right to public property in moving and immovable matters, necessary for the work of the authorities and the organisation of the city's municipality. So, we are not satisfied with this solution, and we believe that the town's statutes should be foreseen that the city's municipality has the right to public property in moving and immovable matters, and all because it does with these moving and immovable things it needs to organise its work. Therefore, it should not be allowed for the city to decide whether to give the city's municipality authorized, in that sense, as I have stated, but rather to order the city to adopt the statutes. Therefore, one arbitration system is excluded, which significantly strengthens the capacity of the city municipality, i.e. those local communities in cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60975	Thank you. Miss Bulgarian Maria.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60976	I would like first of all to express my regret that, of the 16 amendments submitted by the LDP parliamentary group, only one amendment has been accepted and that one amendment has been adopted. In fact, we wanted to correct our amendments to this bill, which obviously wasn't in the interest of anyone in this government. The arguments you gave us on our amendments, which you did not accept, come down to one sentence, and that sentence is that the proposed solution is more appropriate. I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Djelic -- who arbitration between our solution and your solution, and what makes your solution better than the resolution of the LDP parliamentary group? In fact, my colleague spoke a lot of things about Article 18, but I would just add that in Article 18, we wanted to change this position 4 and where we wanted certain conditions for which the city's municipality has the right to public property in moving and immovable matters. We fear that this Article 18, paragraph 4, will lead to abuse, because each local self-government brings its own statutes, and that is the ruling majority in every local self-government, including the city and therefore there can be various abuses. The law says it can, and we know that the border is very small between "can" and "no sea". Once again, Mr. Djelic, you have the opportunity now to take advantage of your right to accept the LDP amendment to Article 18, paragraph 4, and to improve the bill all together.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60977	Mr. Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60978	Yes, let me just say that in this case, the arbitration panel is a member of 189, so I'd better quote it - Article 189(4). "The status of the city can be predicted to educate two or more municipalities in the territory of the city. The town's statutes regulate the affairs of the city's authority, which is done by the city's municipalities," and that's it. If you want to move on, there is no opposition here in some political sense, but it is simply such that if you want to go a step further, further for the city's municipalities should change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60979	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. I apologize to Mr. Varga, he was entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60980	It's a really short replica. So, of course I'm aware of the fact that local self-government can't take action and of course it's not controversial. However, there remains an open question of how so far the MZ could acquire property based on the current Constitution, or on the basis of the previous Constitution, and practically with this law, this right is abolished. It's one question that's left unaccounted for, and I think if we call on the Constitution, then it's worth a look and it's worth an analysis of the day, so before we pass this bill, before we pass this law, and that would ask you one more time for that reason to reconsider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60981	Thank you. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just for the sake of the public of Serbia, firstly to thank Mr. Deputy Prime Minister for having heard of this amendment. The new Serbia, out of the eight amendments submitted, was adopted by our three, which in any case speaks of one quality approach to this text of the law, which we discussed in principle. Just for Serbia's public opinion, to say that in Article 19, we asked to delete: "the possibility that even natural persons get the use of public property". The explanation you accepted says that we believe that public property should always remain protected by its use being controlled and entrusted to those who are obliged to take care of the public interest. For this reason, we felt that natural persons should not be able to be users of public property. This is what I'm saying on purpose, because in Article 31, where you have not accepted the amendment, I'm going to have an explanation to supplement this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60983	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60984	Thank you. I don't know if, Mr. Djelic, you've looked at this amendment and request, but it's very interesting to you as a government because of the budget of all Serbian citizens, because it's just talking about the right of founders to gain and using those immovableities that the founder has handed over to a public enterprise or to one of those who now appear as property holders. Therefore, since Article 21 speaks of the relationship between public enterprises and capital companies as users, that position of Article 21(4) is defined in such a way that it cannot be applied legally. You know how it can be applied? Only once in a while that Mladjan Dinkic wrote a memo as finance minister and said – transfer so many and so many hundreds of thousands of euros to the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You probably remember that. But this can't be the definition the law endures. You wrote – the founder of the company referred to in Article 2 we know who can be the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government participate in the acquisition of a company that is realised by the operating assets that the founder has entered into the capital and business of the immovable property that the founder has given him for use in accordance with the law and contract that these immovableities are given to the company for use. And what exactly is here? In a company of capital you can't judge or how you can, tell me, or whether you're going to estimate what part of the immovable property or the capital invested in what percentage, how much, because you're saying that here you're getting. Thus, he participates in the company’s profits by means of the assets he has invested in the capital or immovable property he has given him for use under the law. Which one? About the transfer to use? So it's absolutely undefined and erasing this attitude is required. You know that in the budget every year we define that the profits of those who do business by means of property or are budget beneficiaries have a time limit on which to pay the share of profits, etc. But the way to define how much of the founder's participation in the profit achieved has absolutely not been defined. You hereby enter the possibility of creating a legal galatias, especially for mixed societies where you have founders, not only the Republic of Serbia but also sides, where you have open stock companies, where you've given real estates to use without defining how much compensation it is, because here in the explanation it says it can be given to using real estate with or without compensation. I'm not clear at all how you think you're calculating, calculating and demanding public enterprises. We think you need to delete this, especially since it's controversial whether the right to use can be a non-money stake in rights at all? This isn't a bookkeeping issue. This is a question of whether the founder of Serbia's state will benefit and how it will calculate from the companies it has set up and not ask questions for a number of agencies that you have handed over public authority and that you have no control over how much they charge, whether they make profits, what they do with those profits, etc. and so on. Let's remember our dear finance minister, who, at the time, presented the information that over a billion euros is out of control in terms of not being controlled, but not included in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and is being made as income over the funds or using the authority that the Republic has given to the agencies. If, for example, the State wants to help a company owned by it and to retain ownership of some real estate it has handed over to it, it can give it to it on a minimum lease, or simply charge for that right of use. But it has nothing to do with earning and tying this rent bill, conditionally speaking, as a right to use and to gain by virtue of that right. I think you as an economist should know that you can neither gain nor increase the stake in society on the basis of investment in the right to use. So you can't increase your stake in society at all if you've given him some real estate to use. I'm saying, there's a particular question with mixed and open stock companies, and I'm asking you -- how are you going to determine the share in the company's profits, which is achieved by operating on the real estates that the founder gave him for use? You want to invent some new mathematics, some accounting standard or some new interpretation of accounting standards, some new value as a basis, etc. So I really don't understand that you haven't as economists realized that this could be just a kind of threat, a kind of control as a possible handling of the obvious but not absolutely precisely defined, known or predicted. The word that makes us try to be organized society, which is why we want to be in the family of European societies, is called predictability. We're talking about plans, we're talking about knowing what's ahead of us tomorrow, and you public enterprises, many of whom are expected to call themselves, largely and rightly, are leaving one completely foggy fact about how much you're going to get out of their profits and based on the right to use it over real estates or on what you're saying that the stake in their property is actually going to be the right to use it over real estates. I don't know whose idea this is. I didn't see that there was any word in the explanation that would define or define any of this, not on the contrary, literally, what article 21 contains is just a word put in it. It is important to note that the founder participates in the profits, and then you have rewritten this position of Article 21(4). You can leave this, public enterprises can't complain, because whoever's there is in charge of the management and the profit is in fear of being replaced, they're going to have to give as much as the state wants. How he will seduce, implement, how he will explain it, and likely again the boards will nod their heads, tomorrow everyone will pretend crazy that they don't know why he did what he did and will remain only newspaper texts like that, in time in one of the tabloids that Mladjan Dinkic told NIS to transfer from his profits to the account of Serbia's budget, i.e. the Serbian government. Please, if you are serious people, accept this amendment or find the possibility to define by the end of the work exactly how much you intend to take from public enterprises on this basis or give the formula for calculating. Or at least say that by some act, although it would have to be a contribution, not some rulebook that's closer to being arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60985	Is this from the time of power? Yeah. Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted the amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment is an integral part of the draft law. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60986	Madam President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, on Article 22, we have submitted an amendment that excludes the possibility of free decision-making in those cases where the rightholder in the use of certain assets uses the opposite of the law, regulation or nature for the purpose of immovableness, or the holder of the right of use, but that must be the obligation of the decision-making of the body which gave that immovableity. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia should decide that the immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia to which the right of use has been granted, which is used contrary to the law, are to be taken away from the holders of the right to use, rather than having the possibility to decide to subtract if used contrary to the law. Any arbitrary decision-making ability but not necessarily brings us into a situation that has been repeated probably hundreds of times and can be repeated in the future and that something that is obviously the opposite of the law will depend on the political will of the people sitting in a particular body. Well, as it already states, it can decide that the government of the Republic of Serbia will take away some property from someone who has misused the right to use it then, for example, some parliamentary groups that participate in local government or in the province government, and have done this abuse to blackmail that same government that they will fall, that they will not vote for certain laws if it happens to them, to take away their property. So, any arbitraryness in such cases is in our opinion unacceptable and we consider it absolutely inappropriate to explain that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more appropriate. What does it mean, a solution more appropriate? It's more appropriate to say that the government can decide to confiscate certain assets that have been given for use if that property has been misused and sold to someone contrary to the law. It can, and it doesn't have to, if it depends on the political will of the separatists from Vojvodina then the government will not decide to take away his property and they will simply sell it to anyone. I mean, these situations are very dangerous, and you shouldn't let that kind of thing stand in the law. It must be made clear that when abuses of the law are at stake, violation of the law that the norms that define that matter must be imperative. The government must decide to take something away if it has misused, if certain assets are not used in accordance with the purpose or in accordance with the law. You've got cases of this kind at stake. For example, the Law of Salaries in State Services. One and the same for the territory of all Serbia, and contrary to that law, much higher salaries are paid in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the bodies of the AP Vojvodina, and it has been established by the state auditor and established by all possible inspections, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no ability to comply with that law and to order bureaucracy in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to pay the salaries in accordance with the law in force and for them. Do you know that salaries, average salaries in the administration in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are 50% higher than in the state administration in the Republic of Serbia or in local self-government? I think that such things are inadmissible and that this relationship that this government has established, and it has established a relationship quite vasal, that no law can be passed without the consent of the province's government, the province's policy, the politicians, that everything that comes into this parliament must first be asked Bojan Pajtic, whether his MPs will accept, or not, it is really inadmissible. Serbia is in a much more difficult position today than it was in 1974. There is a minister from the territory of the Vojvodina for Urbanism and Construction who is not responsible for the territory of Vojvodina. It's absurd over absurds. The Law on Railways will not be passed because MPs from the territory of Vojvodina will not support it unless it is in favor of them. Of course, Mr. Chairman, it's all matter. So, in such cases, the government must play a decisive role and have to take away their property, and it cannot allow anyone to abuse that property because of private interests. The government might decide, and maybe it won't. He has no obligation to take away their property. It's just amazing. Such a provision must be deleted because the abuses stemming from such a provision can be disastrous for this country, as well as for relations in the leading coalition, as we have unfortunately come to the position that the state of Serbia is a hostage of minority and separatist parties from Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60987	The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Arangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60988	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another solution to the government that provides a pretty big opportunity for abuse. Therefore, the Government may decide that the immovableity in the property of the Republic of Serbia on which there is a right of use under Article 18 of this Law is to be taken away from the holder of the right to use and in cases not listed in Article 7, provided that the holder of the right of use is provided with the use of other relevant immovable property. So I had to read this view so that it would be really clear what was predicted when the reasons why the right to use could not be defined. In the previous position, it is precisely defined when the right to use can be taken away, which also provides certain opportunities, arbitraryness, and ultimately abuse. So here we have two approaches when we can subtract the right to use. This article is referred to as Article 18 as a member who defines those who have the right to use. This article indicates that both institutions and public agencies and other organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, the AP, or units of local self-government, but holders of the right to use are, among other things, city municipalities and local communities. It is interesting, then, that if the government already wants to reduce its powers and powers a little bit, why is it resorting to this kind of problem-solving again by actually deciding at the government's meetings whether it will take away the right to use the local community, or the city municipality. In any case, it doesn't lead to any efficiency of work, but it gives a wide range of opportunities for abuse. Whenever something isn't defined in the law, it just gives us the possibility of abuse. However, I would refer to what we were saying both once and in the second case, because the government has given an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more appropriate. Therefore, the amendment of the LDP MPs to Article 18, as well as to this Article 22. We're not talking about courtoasia here, we're talking about an amendment, or an amendment from the amendment, whether it's in accordance with the Constitution or not. You, Mr. Minister, quoted Article 89(4). The constitution and it is said that this amendment to Article 18 of the LDP Parliament does not comply with this position of the Constitution. I don't really see why it doesn't fit, given that this view predicts that the Statute of the city can predict that two or more municipalities are being educated in the territory of the city. So it has nothing to do with what we have proposed to provide for the city's Statute to give city municipalities the right to property on real estate and movable property. Therefore, as an arbitrary explanation was given in the Government's opinion that the amendments were rejected, this response was also produced, as a matter of fact, why the government did not adopt an amendment to LDP 18 MPs at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60989	Members of the People's Parliaments Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60990	Article 25 deals with the registration of public property rights and rights of use and in its first position states that the right of public property and the right to use on the property of public property is entered in public books, on immovable property and rights over them in accordance with the law governing the registration of the right to immovable property, and there are no objections there. The comments are to the following point, which states that in the cases referred to in Article 19(1) and (2), the public property users are public authorities and organisations, then the authorities and bodies and units of the local self-government may be entered in addition to the public property rightholder, meaning the immobiliser if the body's competence is determined by the act. I think there is no reason not to accept the SNS amendment, because it is not as in the part of the case of Article 18, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we propose that this attitude be changed and that the obligations of the user, i.e. immobilities, i.e. bodies and organisations of public enterprises and holders of the rights of use, institutions, various agencies and others be made mandatory, and not as you stated in Article 2. This is necessary and important in order to know at any moment who is the user of immovableness, i.e. public property holders, and also, in accordance with 24. who manages things, in order to define these things more clearly and to supplement the position 24, or to know at any moment who manages the immovable property, and which is not defined by your proposal, because the words relating to Article 18 may or may not, indeed very little differ in our, in Serbian terminology, so that we ask you and we ask you to leave this as an obligation, and not as an option, because, contrary to the Constitution, the definition is really clear and the obligations of users of immovableity and rightholders of use, and they are fully defined. This would also eliminate possible abuses and, in the process of determining responsibility, the process itself would be simplified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60991	The Government has submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has adopted, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60992	Article 26 of the law in the general provisions speaks about what is meant by the means available. In the text of the basic law, it says that by making things available in public property, in the sense of this law, it is considered to be giving things to be used, giving things to rent, transferring public property rights to another public property bearer, including the exchange, and where we intervened, it is that under point 4. says – alienation of things from public property. It's not just a language-clear wipe of what we're looking for, which is to delete the words "out of public property", because when you say "alienation of things", and you're talking about public property, that means that it's alienation from public property, so it's unnecessary to say, and if it is from public property, that's the case that you're predicting in point 3, this transfer of public property rights from one user to another. So, this rejection for article 26 that what you really are is too much to erase, where you said it was more appropriate for your solution, it's just too little to forgive. But how do you explain that you refused our proposal in this Article 26, where we asked that under the right of availability and concept of availability be treated and pawned movable things? Mr. Djelic, are there any people whose cars are worth more than the little old apartment they live in? What is the definition of being available whether immovableity or moving matter or value or the right to have something at all? So, not accepting that you forgot that the pawning of movable things is a kind of availableness, you gave an explanation and wrote: "Our solution is more appropriate", although in point 4 of this attitude you wrote that it is the availability and design of a mortgage on immovable property, as well as investment in capital, but the pawning of movable things, I can't say otherwise than that you deliberately dropped. Because if you've forgotten, and we've changed your mind, and you refused to include it, what's more than a deliberate release? Now I ask you – are you treating the resources available in public property as a pawn of moving things or not? Why do I insist on this? How valuable are mobile things, basics, machines for work, forgotten during the privatisation process to enter into the prospectus of privatisation? How many contracts did that break? You think someone's gonna forget about that? Simply, this amendment suggested that the concept of availability should be included in the concept of moving things, bearing in mind that these and such individual things could also be far greater values than you yourself had foreseen and confirmed in Article 27(2) of the Law itself. So you've denied yourself by forgetting this to accept. But then you're talking about the procurement and alienation of equipment of greater value and means of transport by the government. Since you have used the term "alien" in that provision, not at your disposal, as we consider necessary, we have proposed to amend it in a manner that is correct. When you say alienation is something that needs to be under control, and we're asking that the pledge be controlled in terms of availability, you only mean that a moving thing can be sold. Wait, the pledge is a temporary pawnage that needs to be recorded and treated somewhere, which doesn't mean that the stock must be realised as alienation. For the reasons that we have stated and we believe that our solution is not more appropriate than more legal and just, please, Mr. Djelic, that if you have these powers, adopt the proposed amendment to Article 26.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60993	The word is Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60994	The government accepts this amendment, provided that before voting day is corrected, probably the technical error that has been subdued, that after point 7, it states: "after point 6." And to add a new point 7 that reads "the pawning of moving things".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60995	Thank you. So, a technical slip. Of course, you understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60996	I'm really sorry that I didn't thank you before the debate that you even took into consideration the amendments to Article 26 without correcting the technical error that you mentioned. I've got it fixed on my document, but in this haste, we haven't arrived. This technical error is: not point 7 and point 8 but 6 and 7. I thank you, and I hope that you and my proposal will be appreciated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60997	That was nice. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60998	Now this continues with the story we had. In Article 27, in paragraph 2, we replaced the word "alien" with the words "disposal", we asked for the erasure of attitude 3 and for sections 4 to 11. to 11. I'm going to give a very brief explanation, because I can see that we understand each other, even though some people don't appreciate it. We believe that it is necessary for the Government to really decide on all forms of availability of means of transport and equipment of greater value. It is, above all, necessary for the government to have control and be informed of the state of these matters in public property. Many have had objections, almost all of them, that the government has no record, that there is no information and literally this member of the law, with such an amendment, would allow all those who want the Government to be informed on time when it already has responsibility for the use, availability and alienation, as we are predicting this amendment. The draft law in paragraph 2 determines that both procurement and alienation of means of transport are decided by the Government, and in paragraph 3, which I am talking about, states that both procurement and alienation of movable goods, in particular means of transport and equipment of greater value, shall be decided by the head of the body, or service. The meaning of the term: "things of special purpose", I spoke of it for a little while, is given only in article 63, which states that the items are specific purposes of weapons, military and technical equipment, means of transport, etc. It is not clear why, for example, the sale of a car by the Ministry's user would be decided by the government, and the sale of the vehicle by the military or the Security Service would be decided by the defence minister, or by the director of the Service even. It cannot be allowed to reduce the level of responsibility for the signature, or consent even to the level of the head of a service, with regard to the means of special purpose, including equipment of greater value. We are witnessing major affairs in this area in terms of the purchase of this equipment, and therefore it is really necessary for the government to decide at the moment of supply and alienation, i.e. by means of the means of this kind. If we are well-intentioned in this sense in the division of responsibility, one subsequent amendment will prove to you, where when the Government gives consent to the availability of this kind, we ask that the specific responsibility be submitted by the head of that body who proposed to the Government to decide and to sign the contract and that in the case of an illegal proposal and your consent it is the one who proposed it to the Government and signed the contract. Mr. Djelic, I hope you understand the relationship of things and I think even at the speed of writing this law one of these things has passed, so I ask you to reconsider adopting the amendment to Article 27 of our amendment 16.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u60999	The 27th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the law and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarcic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61000	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republican public defender is so-called State's attorney. Attorney General's office is a lawyer with a legal exam. Therefore, these are the most qualified persons to prepare acts for governments on the procurement and availability of things in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, they are most called upon to make a clear commitment to these acts and to these acquisitions and to those facilities which are within their jurisdiction when it comes to the property of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we really do not see why this amendment has not been accepted, this proposed solution that the most qualified part of the legal profession be competent for such serious work as obtaining or making available state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61001	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 29 and 29. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61002	Article 29 of the Proposer has the title "The market conditions of supply and estrangement of immovableity", and we have asked that the title be changed to "The acquisition of public property rights on immovable property". Not only the title, but we've changed the text of that Article 29 to quite a bit, and I'm just going to try to get the government to accept this amendment one more time. As you have proposed by law, you have not more detailedly arranged the way in which you exercise the right to public property, or the real estates that should be public property, but only briefly talked about public competition, but very briefly. The acquisition of real estate is also about building objects, and what do you think is okay with how the meaning of the law on public procurement treats building buildings? Now you'll hear the explanation. This is under the Public Procurement Act where you propose to apply it in one part of the law, in fact, treats, obtaining works and as such is not excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act under the applicable law. You see how the simplest term can change the process of getting something. We remind you that the purchase of immovable property was excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act only in January 2009, and that until then it was under the Public Procurement Act. So, since 2002, this has been a different procedure, more transparent, more demanding and in terms of greater control of the availability of public funds. You know for a long time that there's been a legal gap in the sense that there's no orderly procedure for buying and renting real estate by the state. You know, like me, and the provinces, and local self-government, what you call property rights holders here, but the same case applies to public enterprises. We believe it is necessary to apply an open procurement procedure to the purchase of immovable property. However, as the Public Procurement Act excluded its application, this amendment provided for the basics of the open procedure and explicitly prescribed exceptions when necessary. So we don't rule out the possibility when it's just a specific location, because of specificity, there's allowed to pass the open procedure, in a more direct procedure, to make purchases. We have determined that the procedure is carried out by the commission in order to prevent abuse. It remains an open question, I admit, whether the bidders have the right to complain and when they have, if they do, and when they do, that they were victims of some irregularities that the state has done in this way, by obtaining immovable property. We also predicted what is often needed by the state, which is the possibility of negotiating with one or more persons. So, in particularly justified cases, not wanting exceptions to turn into a rule, which is reality, when immovableity can be obtained on particularly favourable terms. Thus, that direct contract with one or more persons is allowed, or where there is no other or appropriate other immovable property in a given area. It is important that in these cases we have provided that, in addition to the arguments that the competent authority is required to, to make mandatory publication of the notice in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and on the relevant website, so that the public is aware of the purchase decisions, in the way we all advocate, and this is transparent and public knowledge. Please, if you have one word of objection or against the solution given in Article 29, or the arguments I have made, I would really like to hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61003	Thank you. You've spent your time with an authorized representative. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61004	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from an explanation of why our amendment was rejected states that this amendment was essentially accepted, in such a way that the Government submitted the amendment, by erasing words from the bill, or if this is from the aspect of the interest of the holder of public property, the most comprehensive solution. You have in some way improved this legal solution and this member of the law. However, we still find the direct contract simply inadmissible in the process of obtaining or alienating property, mobility, immovableity in the property of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61005	Thank you. The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61006	I think the amendment was essentially accepted. As regards the purchase of real estate, it should be noted, and this esteemed House will discuss when it comes to the agenda and the point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, that even under the European Directive which regulates this matter, the issue of real estate is covered in a different way. Of course, no one here has any intention of getting real estate that can be found on the market, going into any direct contract. Here is the specific situation, for example, where it is necessary, and this was also discussed in principle, to obtain additional plots for the cemetery. Then there's only a limited number of people to negotiate with, with which to find and deal to expand the cemetery. That's the situation you're predicting. Of course, for valid reasons, we're all very sensitive about the possibility of going somewhere past an open deal, but the law has to predict those rare cases where it's inevitable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61007	I'm sorry, I didn't understand, Mr. Djelic, was the amendment accepted or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61008	As Mrs Popovic said, the government does not accept this amendment because it has already taken its amendment in the same direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61009	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The Finance Committee accepted it, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zoran Kasalovic withdrew the amendment to Article 29. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group has submitted an amendment to Serbia's title above Article 30 and Article 30. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61010	Article 30 refers to the acquisition of immovable property by means of a direct exchange agreement. We have changed this title to – gaining the right of public property on immovable property through exchange. So that I don't waste my time reading the whole proposal, I'm just going to explain to you, that this amendment suggested that conditions be specified when immovableity can be obtained through exchanges. Instead of the interest of the rightholder of property, we foresee that one of the conditions is the market value of the immovable property, which is so small that its sale for the purchase of other immovable property would be an invaluable, i.e. an unfavourable solution. The proposal for a law in point 3 incorrectly states that one of the conditions for the exchange of immovable property in public property is more valuable than that which is obtained by negotiating the payment of the difference within 20 days of the date of conclusion of the contract. It is not clear at all why this surcharge is not immediately agreed, but later. We couldn't get into your reasons for that. That is why we have defined this condition differently in a way that the surcharge must be agreed immediately, so it must be one of the mandatory elements of the fixed-moving contract. How many newspaper inscriptions were about the abuse of powers in the Directorate, which had the resources in its possession of the Republic, about the exchange that was not equivalent in terms of the value of immovableity, I think it's excessive to speak. When Mr Djelic says – it was thought of obtaining a plot for the cemetery, the law did not "think it," but it was written precisely, and the previous member I defended on Article 29, we provided exceptions to this type, and here we also need to specify the conditions when this exchange of immovableity can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61011	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 31 and 31. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61012	It's about estrangement of immovableity, and we called it estrangement of immovableity in public property, because it's not crucial that it's below the market price, but as funds in public property are alienated. As we said in that first amendment, the public property bearers are specifically defined here, what is public property, what are resources of general interest and good in general use, in the same way we changed the title above Article 31. The proposed amendment separated the process of estrangement and clearly laid down the rules of procedure. The government cannot pass the law that is passed here that itself some special procedures later in practice introduce rules that are not defined by law. Do not ask anyone tomorrow to be responsible for breaking the law if you are in a manner that defines this public property and makes it available in a certain way in violation of the adopted norms and assumes the jurisdiction of the legislative authority. We've prescribed an obligation to publish an invitation to the RS official so that all interested persons can participate. After receiving the initial tenders, auction sales are organised in order to achieve a higher selling price, and the exemption from the sale at no less than the market price is divided, provided that the estrangement of the immovableity below the market price is necessary in order to establish good relations with other countries or international organisations. The Government cannot be a donor of what this body, this body, or the congregation of the body whose property is the object of such a means of availability. We believe that this agreement is necessary, given that the reason for estrangement of the immovableity below the market price is quite undecided and that it is really necessary for citizens and the general public to know why and under what conditions, for which reasons certain immovableity is given. I won't be surprised if you don't adopt this amendment, but I want the public to hear what you want to leave Article 31 to yourself, beyond what the Constitution and the positive regulations give you for the right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61013	Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, as I spoke in principle, I draw attention to Article 31 which Mrs. Tabakovic spoke about earlier. We are slightly different, although almost with the same explanation, we have seen the possibility of this member being reorganized because it is a member who speaks of estrangement of immovableity below the market price. I'm talking about public property. I will read again this article - especially from Article 29(1) of this Law immovableity can be alienated from public property and below the market price, i.e. without compensation, if there is an interest in such availability, such as resolving socio-humanitarian issues. You've already deleted it with your amendment. It doesn't exist anymore. It remains – eliminating the consequences of natural disasters or establishing good relations with other countries, i.e. international organisations, and in other cases provided for by specific law. With our amendment, we asked to delete this – or to establish good relations with other countries, or international organisations. So, since the law needs to predict some solutions, I suppose you've predicted what circumstances these are, which are possible good relations, which are countries with which we need to establish good relations by giving them, if we give them no compensation, that's donated, some funds, something of public property. What are these international organizations? And in the principle debate, I asked you and you didn't answer me, and international organizations have all profiles, colors, shapes and sizes, not to mention intentions. We're decadent against the fact that something can be alienated from public property this way. A great need would have to be a country for friendship with a country, another country, to treat it that way. I also asked you in principle – are there examples in European legislation that this is how they treat the public property of their countries or state property, as they already call it in their legislation? I would ask you more – where has Serbia achieved such an interest as a state? Who needed to maintain some good relationships with us, so he gave us something like that? That would be important to me, given that you refused an amendment with an explanation that we were not satisfied with. You thought it was something that could remain in the law. We really believe that this cannot remain in the law without a serious explanation which is good relations with other countries and which are international organisations that would meet the criteria for public property in Serbia, without compensation, or below the market price. It's something we're all sensitive to. I'd like to thank you if you'd answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61015	The word is Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61016	Many years ago, Heyle Selassia and Tito exchanged facilities for the needs of the embassy. Addis Ababa is today the center of the African unity organization. As we know, there are many countries on that continent that support us with our principled stand on KIM, and the African Unity Organization is increasingly important, I can tell you from personal experience, because I was at a meeting in July in Uganda. There is an increasing number of growing countries coming to these meetings, because Africa is an increasingly large economic opportunity. Our country inherited from then-Yugoslavia a number of very important economic positions none of these foreign ministers have forgotten. Here's an example. I'm deliberately setting this example, because in the 1990s, at that time, it seems, in some ways, he took that object that was given to Ethiopia. We are now, as a country, bound to find another object. It would be absolutely inappropriate to ask Ethiopia to pay the market price, and at that time in Addis Ababa, we save one object that is most likely one of the most impressive in that capital, which was given to the then Yugoslavia, for which Ethiopia is willing to continue to give it to us. To replace, without any burden, and finally stabilize both their position and our position in these diplomatic relations. That's what you're thinking. I'll give you another example. This law is also passed for the future. Let's assume that some regional centres, in the sense of some regional development banks, or some other institutions that would have regional or European or other significance, come into play in the next steps. In that case, we have seen that it is very important for these international agreements to be provided with the right location, and we want to allow our country to be competitive in this way, because all other countries will be able to provide it. I can give you a series of examples where, for example, from one Montenegro, which gives one object so that there's a regional school for public administration to be located, to many other examples, where in this way we just want to ensure that, like other countries, Serbia can appear for what is very attractive. Let's see what the UK, for example, has done to have the headquarters of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. When a Frenchman, who had an idea for that bank, was ready to leave London's headquarters to have the first director. A year later, that director left because he'd created a particular scandal and the bank had stayed in London. I think it's clear what this is all about. And this and every future government will have to explain to the people a lot, in front of the whole public, why it proposes to do one of these things. Of course, I think that this is how I illustrate the purposes and in terms of agile diplomacy, in the classical sense of that word, but also economic diplomacy, Serbia wants to have the same opportunities as other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61017	Thank you. Mr. Spasojevic and Mrs. Djeric are also in the system. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61018	I'll just take a minute. Mr. Djelic, you've really made this very clear, but you haven't convinced me yourself. I know that someone will have to explain to the public Serbia, and we know what such arguments in the public of Serbia look like, we know how it goes through the media, and we know who manipulates the media, and I remember the movements of the non-classified and everything that's happened, but Serbia is still a poor country, there's a lot of things that can be allowed to preserve some friendships, but this is how it stands here in a formula, and when you say international organisations, there's really a lot of that. It's not precise. By the way, when we talk about banks, so banks, if anyone came to Serbia, the banks came to cut the citizens' hairs, they came to drag us individually into debt slavery, so if they are, they can pay their business space and rent. They have great interests here. Banks don't usually come to improve citizens but to their business. That's the point. So we're staying with our amendment, and you haven't accepted it, now at least some of it's clearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61019	Mr. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I will begin, first of all, from your explanation why this amendment is not accepted, in a single sentence – our solution is more appropriate. This was not about any emperors, Mr. Djelic, in an explanation. My colleague Tabakovic made it clear that we cannot think in the law about what you thought personally, because behind you will come another Deputy Prime Minister or minister who might interpret this law differently, and that only at local level or at some other level, since this law provides for much to change, that practically some things in his own relations will be dislocated, even to local communities. So, when a serious system law is passed, an explanation, the first content of the legal text must be clear to the man who reads it in entertainment, not to serious people and some people who pass such a law, and the explanation must at least be a little in harmony with your reasoning. I'd still leave out those emperors, you know. You see how, in part, New Serbia has accepted this amendment, and you have already thrown out one part of that amendment. Why did you throw out humanitarian organizations in the first place? Elemental disasters, we agree, and you and I, are fine, but this second part in establishing good relations with other countries. Here, I'll give you a suggestion. From your explanation, I have concluded that you are referring to certain reciprocity. Is that right? Then it was supposed to stand in the law – without compensation, under the conditions of reciprocity. We'd probably find a solution. I don't know how it can be fixed now, maybe it can, but what you were saying, I would, with such a single sentence, remove a lot of confusion here. Generally, this law on public property is not good. It's not good, Mr. Djelic, because the basic postulate of rights and rights history, I believe you know what the Usus Frustus and the Augustus means, and this law looks a little like the usus of Frustus – Bozidar Djelic. It's some way of making yourself available. This is not a good way to make yourself available, as provided for by this law. Such a law could be good in a situation where all territorial units and areas in Serbia would be at such a level of development that there is no more than one problem. In a situation where certain territories of Serbia are better developed than others, with such property solutions, by such a conventional state property, there will be a lot of problems and we will come into a situation that even, I will not deliberately say from our Constitution's piety and the rest, but what if some part of the concession is to be obtained, so it has to get someone's consent? We know how much trouble there was in the concession, and we know how well the concession went down in this country. So someone will have to ask, not someone, but practically not central Serbia. Central Serbia does not have an autonomous province. (President: Amendment to Article 31, Mr. Spasojevic, please. ) Okay, Mr. Novakovic, I agree with you, but when we talked about the amendments, Mr. Kasalovic talked from the first to the last amendment, so there was no problem. Now I'm going to end in time. Once again on this amendment, as the chairman insists, enter into this amendment, i.e. in the bill some way the possibility of reciprocity, and we from New Serbia will agree to some extent, so that there will be no different interpretations, which could endanger both Serbia and its constitutional system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61021	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61022	Dear citizens of Serbia, until the amendment to Article 31 you could think, you who have not been able to inform yourself of this proposal, that this government is also thinking in your interest. However, Article 31 and its amendment will best reflect your government's intentions. They leave one platform, one space for further robbery of state property. Article 29. The draft law regulates market conditions for supply and alienation of immovableity. It is also said who assesses and under what conditions traffic can be made. Article 31 of the right exception and I will read it – exceptionally, Article 29 paragraph 1 of this Act, immovableities can be estranged from public property and below the market price, i.e. without compensation, if there is an interest in such availability, such as the solution to social humanitarian issues, the removal of the consequences of natural disasters or the establishment of good relations with other countries, i.e. international organisations and in other cases envisaged by law. Then we learned that the government had submitted an amendment to this article. We thought the amendment was submitted for eradicating part of the text "or establishing good relations with other countries", which means alienating property under more favourable conditions. What does this mean? This is probably what you are predicting for NATO or for some other countries that will go to NGOs in Serbia, such as Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Borka Pavicevic and others. Imagine what the government says in an explanation why it does not accept its own proposal but must intervene with the amendment. They're removing a solution to socio-humanitarian issues. There is no longer a possibility that under more favourable conditions public property, and for us from the SRS exclusively public, state property owned by the Republic of Serbia, can be granted to those purposes. (President: Time.) ) They say it will be regulated by other laws. The second law regulated pensions, the second law, even the Constitution regulated the right to work...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61023	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61024	Article 33 refers to estrangement of moving things. The general position of the SNS is that we need to have a single regime when it comes to moving and motionless things and there was no reason for the government to distinguish between estrangement and alienation of mobile and immovable things. We have called on Article 31 in our amendment to define the emphasis and alienation of immovable things. It was perfectly normal for this member to be attached to Article 31. In addition, we believe that the Government must play a more active role in matters of small value and that, above all, it is the government's job to determine the minimum value of things that can go through an elementary negotiation with one or more persons. We have installed this in the amendment that we have proposed, that through one regulation, the government should determine this value of things and thus avoid any kind of abuse, ambiguity or problems that may arise in the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61025	Thank you, Mr Antic. The Government has submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojić, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić. The word is Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61026	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are opposed to the provision and alienation of movables by direct contract. We believe that Serbia with this level of corruption, which is very prominent in Serbia, cannot afford any possibility for this corruption to occur even when it comes to obtaining, or alienating, mobile things that are part of state property. Just as this happened with the acquisition, or alienation of immovableity, the government resorted to a certain improvement in the solution set out in the bill, but this does not cross the make-up domain. Therefore, we do not really see why the amendment of LDP MPs, which is scheduled to delete Article 33's position, has not been adopted. I would also draw attention to the existing solution of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, to the members of the 6th and 33rd. Article 6 regulates the procurement and alienation of immovableity and does not provide for a direct contract. So the old bad law solution is better than the new law's solution. Only in exceptional conditions, Article 33 provides for a direct contract for the supply and alienation of movables. So it is really inappropriate for one such bad law, such as this 1995 law, to be promoted in this way, to give some better solutions than a law that has the ambition to be progressive and has some potential.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61027	Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The word is Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are still on the subject of a direct contract. But now it's about the lease. As the direct contract is inappropriate for the acquisition and alienation of movable or immovable property, it is also inappropriate to lease certain assets by direct contract. Therefore, the same reasoning for this amendment as for the previous amendments concerning the procurement, or alienation. Again, I note that for Serbia, a direct contract, as a solution to the management of the availability of certain state assets, cannot give positive solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61029	The 34th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61030	Article 34 has the title: "Lowing stuff," and if I gave him the title, I'd call it "the wolf shouts, and the foxes eat meat." All the time, there's talk of what Vojvodina will take in its jurisdiction, and she won't be given money to fulfill that jurisdiction, and in fact, as usual, the devil hides himself in small things. The essence of this law and the legislators is in Article 34. Dear citizens, point 1 states: "The things in public property can be leased, starting from the market level of the rent for a certain kind of thing, in the public tendering process, i.e. the collection of written offers". There's nothing to blame. There is the following point 2 where it reads: "Extremely from the position of the 1st member, things in public property can be leased directly by contract, if this is only possible in a specific case from the aspect of the interest of the holder of the right of public property, the most comprehensive solution". Mr Djelic, did you miss the position of 2nd Article 34, where the exception, especially in Belgrade, will become a rule, under the reason of "the most comprehensive solution" for the rightholder of public property, which will mean for someone who represents the state, the Republic, the city, for example in Belgrade, an unlimited right to be in a direct contract, which is, in the history and theory of bureaucracy, the tent where one who prays or where there is an office where two can speak in private and in four eyes and directly conveniently betray matters of public property. As you wrote to us in the refusal of the amendment that your solution is more appropriate, and that word remains an empty shell which does not stand any argument against, you will also use an explanation of the consistency for the holder of the right of public property and use attitude 2 instead of an open procedure in paragraph 1. You can chat as much as you like, I'm talking about Serbian citizens, and I repeat, article 34 is the essence of the public property law, where all the time there's a big deal about it and what Vojvodina wants, and what local self-government wants, and what the law on public property is for. In fact, it is avoided that in an open procedure, transparently, they are issued in the lease of real estate that some public authorities have on behalf of Serbian citizens, in a way that is mostly benefited by individuals, not Serbian citizens. In the way that you have provided for a later member of the law the right to prevent purchases for those found in that lease. Do I need to draw further steps of behavior or explain the reasons for passing this law? Well, I get why you refused this amendment. For your honor, and perhaps someday you'll explain to the citizens who, why and how this law was passed by who and why and how it applied. Thank you very much for your attention to me when defending this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61031	The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61032	In order to support the amendment of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, to Article 34, and it is precisely the essence of these few members who are engaged in alienation or in the lease of public property, and that is where it hides itself in the things of the law that will allow future authorities to convert public property into what we want to say will not be and this is a party's spoil, where in public property even public enterprises will be able to be a model and subject to blackmail, mutual bargaining, where business premises will be issued by someone who has authority by such dispersion itself will be able to increase, corruption will increase, and this law will serve exactly what should not be served and that is to protect public property from party oligarchs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61033	Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zoran Kasalovic withdrew the amendment to Article 34. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic, Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 35th amendment. Mr. Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, this member refers to the arrangement of terms and procedures, i.e. for the sake of citizens, to read what this article 35 reads in the law. It states that the conditions for the procurement and alienation of immovable property by direct contract and the lease of things in public property, as well as the procedures for public competition or the collection of written offers, are closer to the government's regulation. Our amendment, I will read it, read it – that the process of obtaining and alienating things in public property and by giving things to public property in leases is governed by the government's regulation, respecting the principles prescribed by the law governing public procurement. So, this amendment, in fact, suggested that the government regulation only regulates the process of buying the exchange of estrangement and leases. So, technically, this procedure in these situations, but the conditions for application are regulated in another way. They are regulated quite logically, we have suggested because we think it is logical that these conditions for application, or eventually exemptions from the basic rule, must be regulated by law. and that is why we have added in this amendment that the procedure is being governed by the government regulation, and that the second part, or that all conditions are governed by the law governing public procurement. Thus, in this way, not only would this amendment achieve compliance with this law, but it would also have an effect which is very important because these sensitive topics were within these principles of public procurement, and thus would have the effect of both transparency and competitiveness and economics, as well as the equality of bidders. So we don't need to, and we think that this amendment should be adopted because it gives one more quality, and that's to be consistent with the law in that way to achieve these effects that we wanted to achieve with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61035	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojić and Marija Bulgarčić submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Maria Bulgarcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61036	Thank you to the President-in-Office, Your Honor, Vice President, so here is one of those amendments that you adopted on the draft of this law... There was a mix-up. I wanted to go to article 41.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61037	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61038	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the People, this amendment is of a technical nature, since we have tabled amendments to all of these previous provisions of the law relating to the possibility of obtaining and alienating property, movable property, i.e. renting directly to the contract of property of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this is not a good solution and that we would in fact achieve that goal, to erase this possibility of direct contract and law, and on this Article 35, we have put the amendment, so as to disable the government, by means of a regulation of the establishment and ways of that direct contract. We believe that the government cannot decide in this sense because it is too arbitrary and too many possibilities are given to this branch of government, executive because it is often very high values and great assets. Therefore, this article of 35 is, in fact, just a continuation of this bad solution that began with Article 33, 34, and now Article 35, respectively, and Article 29.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61039	The 36th Amendment was submitted by the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61040	Article 36 speaks of the jurisdiction to conclude the contract, and we have submitted an amendment where, in paragraph 2, the part where the procurement contract and the availability of mobile items for special purposes is intended to be concluded by the body manager, i.e. the service used, or for whose needs these things are supplied. Changing attitudes, I'm not going to explain it specifically, but I'm going to explain to you what we wanted with this amendment to achieve. Since, in the light of the amendments to Article 27, we have cited the reasons why we believe that the procurement and availability of moving things should indeed be decided by the Government. However, on the basis of the decision made by the Government, the contract should be signed by the head of the body, or service, rather than by the director of the Directorate. It is enough for the government to make a decision, and for the lower bodies that make the decision to prepare and responsibility to be signed on the contract. We've also introduced, and the term "disposal" instead of "alien" which actually includes all the possibilities that the law has proposed, not only this one, but all the applicable laws that mean what is meant by the term available, and we think that as such, this article of the law is much clearer, and the argument is that your solution is more appropriate, it's really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61041	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić. National MP Judita Popovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61042	Thank you to the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have actually proposed that the Republic Public Defence be the key body that will conclude contracts on alienation, procurement, lending, therefore, the Republic Attorney General will be the one that will effectively frame all available assets of the Republic of Serbia, and we see that the proposal was the best opinion that this would be done by the Directorate for Property which has shown how it has worked in the past 16 years. I note, that the Property Directorate, which had the obligation to keep records of the entire property that was nationalised in 1995, therefore, of property that was taken literally from the provinces and from the units of local self-government. So, it's all moving, immovable and other assets, and that Republic Directorate was able to record only 5% of the total assets, i.e. the immovableities with which she had, so she had absolutely no idea what immovableities she had in mind, she was very impeccable when giving an AP opinion and consent, or local self-government units, when it was quite necessary, when these autonomys needed to solve some of her burning issues in autonomy, or locals. It has often waited years for opinions and consent to any decision of the Directorate, and the same directive is further promoted with such a bill, and we think it is wrong and that it should still be left to that body or the Republic of Public Prosecutor, as we have proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61043	The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojić, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Judita Popovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61044	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this member merely points out how right we were when we found that the Republic Public Attorney is, however, the one who can best respond to the challenges, all the legal affairs needed to manage, have the state property. This article of the 37th proposal actually provides that all contracts on the procurement and alienation of immovableity in the property of the Republic of Serbia are to be concluded in accordance with the previously obtained opinion of the Republic Public Advocate. Therefore, if the Republic Public Advocate is competent to give his opinion on the quality of this procurement or alienation. Isn't it much more celery and efficient and we're skipping actually one unnecessary link in terms of this estrangement directorate or the acquisition of immovableity? However, this Republic public defender is the one who is the most qualified for these matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61045	Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted together to the 37th amendment. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61046	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs, as I said, Mr. Djelic, I would like to submit an amendment to reciprocity on Article 31, so you would probably accept it, but here is the chance that due to a more practical technical clear amendment, I think you should accept the New Serbia amendment. Therefore, in Article 37 paragraph 2 after the words – from the date of receipt, the point shall be deleted and the words shall be added – the component of which shall constitute the draft contract referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article. It is therefore necessary to establish that the draft contract in question is an integral part of the requirement referred to to the public defender in order to obtain an opinion, independent of the obligation of the directorate under Article 3(3). So, Section 1 refers to contracts on the supply and alienation of immovableity in the property of the Republic of Serbia, and so I think that your argument, that you do not understand what the draft refers to, and I think you should accept this amendment because it is more appropriate than you have offered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61047	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 38 and 38. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61048	We have a member in front of us who says that contracts on the acquisition and alienation of the property of the Republic of Serbia are concluded in accordance with the previously obtained opinion of the Republic of Public Defence and the obligation to be within 30 days, with an updated amendment from New Serbia to this Article 37, then almost normally, this Article 38 could not work and could not happen in this situation, but the title and knowledge of our case law should be the title of the killing of the contract itself, and I do not think it is acceptable either in the legal language, nor in the use of Serbian language, but we have therefore provided that this term, or the title of article 38, which, in the proposal of the law, should be replaced by the term – the cancellation of the contract, and in Article 38, we have proposed amendments to Article 38, in paragraph 1, and in the second and in addition to Article 3, which should otherwise stand out as it should be in line with Article 37. With this amendment, we are simplifying the provision of Article 1 as opposed to the draft law, where we state that the Republic Public Attorney's Office is obliged to file an action for the termination of the contract referred to in Article 37(1) of this Act, which is concluded contrary to the applicable rules, at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Article 2 we have introduced a special subjective and objective deadline, because the time limit for filing an action cannot be tied to the conclusion of the contract, but rather to the delivery of the contract to the Directorate, i.e. to the Republic of Ombudsman. I'm telling the Directorate because these deadlines are 15 days from the time of delivery to the Directorate and the relationship to the Republic Public Attorney's Office. It is said that the deadline for taking a particular legal action must always be defined from the date of knowledge that there is some fact or legal action, not from the day of its separation. For this reason, we have asked for a change in the position of Article 38, and we have explicitly provided for the possibility of filing a misapplication with a new position 3, which reads - the Republic Public Attorney's Office may file a misapplication against the responsible person of the competent authority in the event of breach of the provisions of Article 27, Articles 29, 30, 31 and of Article 36 of this Law, against the responsible persons in the event of not carrying out the appropriate procedure. I see no reason not to accept the amendment because it simplifies and binds this issue into optimal legal frameworks and deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61049	One minute and 25 seconds were used from the time of the group's MPs. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Finance Committee have submitted an amendment to the Title above Articles 41 and 41. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61050	The government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61051	Thank you. I find that the proposer has accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 41st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61052	I was just ahead of myself, and I wanted to commend the Deputy Prime Minister, so here I wanted to thank you for accepting the LDP amendment to Article 41, where we said that directors and members of the managing body in public enterprises are chosen exclusively in public competitions and that is definitely a positive shift in this sphere. The adoption of this amendment will allow for the introduction into our legal system of direct provisions on the protection of public interest, and in the business of public enterprises, agencies and other capital societies managed by good in public property. It will also allow for a ban on abuse for private and party purposes, as a public competition institution in the selection process of directors and other management bodies. Since its establishment, the Liberal Democratic Party has been pushing for the departementisation and depolitisation of public services and public enterprises. We believe that this is a legitimate interest and a lack of trust in the public who has so far ruled in this sphere and enormous losses in the business of the current public enterprises and the unacceptable practice of governance in them has much greater importance that this rule should not be put off further. After all, this law for the first time introduces order into this sphere, and we systematically begin to regulate the issue of public property, as well as its use, so we believe that there are no obstacles and there were no obstacles to this amendment being adopted. We think this is a positive shift in all of this, and I'd like to thank you for adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61053	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61054	I would like to say that the government accepted this amendment before the world because, as Prime Minister Dr Cvetkovic said the day before yesterday, this law, and the general definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to move towards a thorough reform of the public sector. In our public opinion, many talk about ministries, what ministers do, their co-workers, and that is good, however, should be aware that more people use more funds than the CAP, so that if we think about whether they use the nation's funds in a meaningful way, whether what our citizens separate for those prices that are administratively determined or in those activities where there is no alternative, it is so important that public enterprises are as efficient and more efficient as possible. With this amendment, we have progress in the domain of governance. This cannot be the end because it expects us as necessary and after such an amendment to certain amendments and additions to the law on public enterprises. It's inevitable and it's desirable. At the same time, as I said, at the moment of the interpretation of the law in principle, this law contains an extremely strong lever which is called the property storage of the public sector because every public utility or public circuit company will have to justify its founder who needs the property and for what purposes and we are confident that this will provide additional investment opportunities when it is well analysed whether this hall, this terrain, this summer house, this medical device, is all intended to be located in that public enterprise. We all know, for example, that the Serbian Railways at the moment when their salaries are still paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, bought, and that the government only later learned that a highly expensive medical device was purchased, and in some ways we have a separate health system within the railway system. This law is an opportunity to examine it thoroughly, to see if it is meaningful, whether these apparatus that cost two, three million euros individually, whether it is necessary for the railway to have its own, to see what the productivity of these appliances is, whether it is appropriate to buy another such apparatus in another hospital somewhere else in our country, or if it is much better to unite it in our general health system. I've only given one example, but there are many other examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61055	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milorad Buha submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 45 and 45. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61056	Article 45. The bill defines the acquisition of property of a public enterprise and a company of capital, and it is envisaged that, with the state as one of its properties, as one of the property components, use, fertilisation, public enterprises and capital societies, they can also dispose of the property, but it is important to stress here that a picture was created in this parliament in the debate that the amendments of the Constitution in 1974, the adoption of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, seized property, transferred to Belgrade and now Belgrade is fruitful, benefiting from income, the benefits of funds, etc. It's a bad picture and you shouldn't look at it like that because it's not really a state. What's the real situation? In particular, as part of this article, you say that with the state, governance, fertilization, the use of power will be available. To date, this has been possible under these positive legal rules under a certain procedure. The fact that the Property Directorate and the Government didn't want to accept certain initiatives both the provinces and local self-government, it's a matter of government and it's a government mistake. This is how you fix it, but what we're going to get when we have a broken comm system today. Public and public utility companies, totaling about 600 and something, but 590 submitted a 2010 balance, 570 was lost. The accumulated losses of 2010 are 850m euros. What's the job? About 400m euros. You're creating the impression here that now that it's surrendered and at the disposal of local self-government, public enterprises, it's all going to blossom, etc. From what means will it flourish?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61057	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojić, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić submitted together to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61058	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this article 45 is a major problem, given that the good part of the conflict with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction relating to the conversion of ownership rights on built city building land, as well as construction land, when it comes to enterprises that have acquired property, i.e. the building land during privatisation, i.e. forced execution. This Article 45 makes it clear and says that in the event of property, i.e. immovable property, building land, this is because it results if all these provisions preceding this Article 45 are carefully read. Therefore, if there is a right to use on that land, it may, in that case, be transferred to the right of ownership when that use was current at the time of adoption, i.e. the entry into force of this law. It's a non-refundable conversion. How else to call it a conversion. It is, in fact, just one of the arguments that we made when we discussed the Law on Planning and Construction, when we said it was not good to get as serious as the construction land regime introduced into such a law, such as building planning. This should have been regulated in such a law, such as the Law on Public Property, that in one place we have all kinds of property, including building land, and not that we are trying to understand what the legislator was going to say when he proposed a solution like this, such as this solution in Article 45.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Munir Poturak and Vitomir Mihajlovic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has submitted to Article 54 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 56 and 56. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the title and above the title of Article 56. The proposal for a law on public property and proposed that the new text read: "The availability and management of the business space for the needs of the defence authority", instead of the proposed text provided by the Government, which reads "the housing buildings and dwellings for the needs of the defence authority". Mr. Minister, we know the fact that there are certain real estate funds in the Department of Defense's possession, then housing funds, residential buildings and garages. We also understand that these funds must be managed by someone, but in no way could you convince us that a competent defence minister, besides the fact that there is a Property Directorate and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should be authorised to manage these funds. In addition, this question is otherwise resolved and contained in Article 55. Proposal for a Law on Public Property. As for Article 56, I suggested that the current text in the draft law be replaced by the new text, which reads: "on the acquisition, availability, method of use, management and maintenance of the business space used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army decides the Government on a proposal from the Directorate". The SRS believes it would be extremely inappropriate and unacceptable to assume that during a time of severe crisis, great unemployment, misery and poverty, the Ministry of Defence assumes the obligation to maintain buildings, apartments...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61061	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61062	This position is – immovableities for representative needs of AP and units of local self-government are governed by an AP act, i.e. units of local self-government. I asked you to delete this attitude. It is about the immovableities for the representative needs that you place under the authority of local self-government and the province. Asks with question – who will use these objects? These facilities will be used by local and regional officials, along with their guests. Right? Mr. Minister, does this country need representative facilities for local self-government and the province administration? Are we now in a situation that, for example, one local self-government sustains one, two, or three representative objects on its territory? However, some other options are likely to be opened here. That's why lately many have appeared to local powers, so they're interested in when the regulations, when the law, when they'll bring their acts, etc. For example, a 100-year concession is a nice thing. Concession for 100 years can make a good profit. Whose pockets are the profits going to come in? In the pockets of those local powers or province powers, it's quite certain and quite normal. Maybe it'll be some moral, and I'd say more material satisfaction, for example, because it won't be on the parliamentary list under the new law you've passed. There are other reasons, and there are other reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61063	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to the Nassals above Articles 58 and 58. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61064	You've made a mistake. It's our amendment to correct you. (President: Excuse me, but to Article 59) For the sake of the public, I will read this Article 59 relating to immovableities for special purposes and has only two positions. The first point is -- immovableities for specific purposes within the meaning of this law are immovable things for military needs used by the ministry in charge of defence affairs and the Serbian Army and immovable matters for security tasks from the interior ministry's work on internal affairs and security services. Paragraph 2 which is considered to be immovable for specific purposes under Article 1 shall be governed by a special law closer. We've made an amendment because we have several objections. The first observation is that this is the definition of some concept, the definition of immovableity for special purposes, and you see, it's in the middle or at the end of the law. We believe that this definition of concept, as in other laws, was meant to be in the initial members. Technically, it's not in the right place, so to speak. The other thing, this definition itself is very bad. A definition that doesn't give a certain meaning. In particular, what this means is what is meant by the definition of immovableity for specific purposes. It's too general, without any particular meaning. The third observation is, if I exceed the time, I will use the time of the parliamentary group, that according to this point 1 practically any immovableity in this law that is in place and used for military purposes, for the Ministry of Interior, for the BIA, according to this definition of the law, it turns out that any immovableity owned by them is for a specific purpose. Is that right? Will recreational sports centres, hotels, some swimming pools be special purpose facilities? So this definition: "and objects" are not precisely defined. What does this mean? What is considered to be fixed by a special law? This means that other laws will define the immovableity of a specific purpose. I will read our amendment: "Immobilities for special purposes within the meaning of this law are facilities that serve exclusively for the performance of defence and security (Casar, military and police airports, heliodroms, communications networks, radar stations, polygons, training centres, shelter, warehouses, equipment, laboratories)" and attitude 2: "Immobilities for special purposes are regulated by special law, and the list of immovableities for special purposes is determined by the Government". We believe that this amendment of ours has made it much better to define this first, we have made it more clear that we have given meaning to the definition of these concepts of immovableity for special purposes. Secondly, we have practically defined that all the objects that are owned by the institutions mentioned are currently not all objects that are immovable for a special purpose. Third thing, we suggested that the immovableities for special purposes be regulated by law. Not as it's thought, the definition of one that we need by law to edit, but much more concrete, that special law should regulate this matter in particular. We have also suggested, when all of this is regulated by a special law, that a single list of immovableities be made that should be accessible and that the state and government have practically one single record of all these immovableities for special purposes. That is why we believe that our amendment is more precise and that it gives a much better solution than that which is within the law and we propose that the Government and the Minister consider it once more and see that our amendment is much more comprehensive, that I use the government's answer, much more appropriate, although their answer is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61065	Three minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. 'Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. 'Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61066	Just for a little while. By amendment to Article 63, we have introduced amendments that have defined military and security equipment in the way it is done under EU law in this area, for the sake of comparison, compatibility and easier consideration of the overall situation, balances, control and availability, but we have also made a commitment to obtaining things for special purposes to be regulated by a special law. This means that part of the procurement related to these things can be carried out through the procurement process, what does not penetrate the security area and does not endanger it in any way. And part so-called. you know that it can be conducted under special procedure, but this procedure has to be governed by law. You can't leave, like for that availability and the lease of real estate in public property, that it goes by the exception of a direct contract when you estimate it's celery. That principle cannot apply to security funds, and on the grounds that it is very important and secretive. It's a great thing to buy, for example. The shirt can't be a confidential thing, because it doesn't hide any vests and any security stuff that could threaten any country, government, that organ or anyone. Let's not be under the cover of something that's particularly secretive, and it's not, in fact, to provide ways for corruption. You were silent a little while ago when we said that the Secretary of Defense had decided to purchase the funds, and you were wondering about everything else about the government. I understand that this may be a division of personal influences within the ruling party, but the law must not make such a difference, because there is no standstill in nor in criteria, nor in value, nor in confidentiality, nor in anything that could be subdued under justified, comprehensive, or any other reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61067	It's been used 25 seconds since the time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 64th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law refers to the jurisdiction and manner of keeping records. I will remind you of what it says here, Mr. Minister, that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the province, or the units of local self-government, are now keeping records of the state and movement of funds in public property, not to read any further. Mr. Minister, the situation can be aggregated, it can be married. You can't keep track of the condition. You can record someone's value, and you can describe it one way or another, but in some literary work. This is the law. The most adequate expression of the state of something is the value of that same mobility or immobility. We didn't even suggest that you delete what you wrote – state and movement, even though we don't know what that movement is. What's going to move? How much is that going to move? When it defines who's the titler, it can only move later on to become private. He can't go the other way. We think this is completely wrong and that here you have to accept this, to record, keep a record of the value of the property. Minister, you haven't been able to write down the property in 10 years. As you will be able to adequately lead, as you have written the state or movement, we will see. In this movement that you're predicting by this law, we can only think about what's going to happen in that movement of assets to disappear and what's not going to be recorded in order to get the titler. We want to say that there will be a lot of abuse, that this will create a lot of room for many things to disappear from the property of the Republic of Serbia in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61069	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61070	Your Honor, there is a logic in what you say, but we have begun from the writings of the Republic Property Directorate that implies not only values, but all other aspects of the situation, so there is a practice that is founded, which will be used to fully describe the situation. So this definition is even wider than what you're rightly looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61071	Right on line, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61072	Mr. Minister, I made it very clear – we did not delete what you suggested, but we insisted that value be recorded. You, it says here, will prescribe a form or form by a regulation and therefore the SRS tells you that you will not be wrong if you include what it proposes. It's not true that yours is more accurate. This is more precise and does not endanger what you have suggested, it just simplifies who will form this form by means of a regulation on how to do and formulate and how to look at the pattern to be listed, or recorded.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61073	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61074	I don't think this is contradictory. The government accepts this amendment, provided that before the day for voting in the words "on state" is added to a comma, so "value" is also stuck.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61075	The government has accepted the amendment, but I must ask the MP, Dragan Stevanovic, does he want to submit an amendment in the form announced by the Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61077	Thank you. So, with the correction filed, until the end of the search in detail, the government's representative agreed to accept the amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 64th amendment. National MP Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61078	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is, our view is that property must be recorded, assets, mobility and immovableity must be recorded and everything else. So you must know both the amount and the value and the movement and everything else. However, we do not really agree that the same Republic Directorate, which has so far kept a record of real estate in public property, remains competent. Since this was an extremely bad solution, given that it was extremely badly done by an extremely bad landlord, an extremely bad record, I see no reason why again to that same authority, the Republic Directorate, which has done so much damage during the application of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government and the province of Vojvodina, again gives the opportunity to repeat the same mistakes. So, if errors are observed, it is best that those mistakes be removed, and for this reason we have submitted an amendment to delete both the obligations of the Republic of Serbia and the units of local self-government or autonomous province, to provide all data to the Republic Directorate, in order to record the immovableity of public property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61079	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61080	Mrs. Komic, if you will, I would like a brief explanation for the public to better understand what the essence of article 71 and the proposed amendment is. Therefore, in Article 71(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Directorate shall submit an annual report to the Government on the state of immovableity in public property by the end of May of the current year for the previous year at the latest. The words "to the end", the amendment proposed their change, so it says "until May 31st", which the government accepted for legal and technical reasons, which is justified. Article 2 – The ministry responsible for defence affairs and the interior ministry submits annual reports to the Directorate on the state of immovableity in the property of the Republic of Serbia, which it uses no later than the end of the March year for the previous year. The words "to the end" were proposed by the amendment to change and to say "until March 31st", which was also accepted by the government for legal-technical reasons, because it is more precise that it stands exactly as the amendment suggested. No matter what the Government has accepted, for reasons of legal and technical importance, this amendment, for the sake of terminology, no amendments, and even if it is the essence of the Public Property Law proposal, cannot change the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing, and this is consistent with the concept that we in the SRS represent and what we stand for. Basically, the law on property property ownership should first be passed, then on public and other forms of property. That, according to us in the SRS, would be justified, as well as a trail of events and a bill that would fully regulate this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61081	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 72. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61082	My amendment refers to Article 2, which I must read – natural resources and goods of general interest in state property, except for goods belonging to the AP Vojvodina and units of local self-government, as well as funds used by the Republic of Serbia, state bodies and organisations, institutions and other organisations, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, on the date of entry into force of this law, become funds in the public property of the Republic of Serbia. As suggested in this attitude, natural resources can be owned, i.e. by the AP Vojvodina or local self-government units. The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against it and therefore we asked for this: "except for the goods that are under this law belong to the AP Vojvodina and the local self-government unit" to be deleted. The basic position of the SRS is necessary, for reasons of legal certainty and all other, economic security, the security of this country, to prevent the transfer, not only of state, not only of use, but of special availability to the AP, or the unit of local self-government. What is important to stress is that in practice we have the abuse of the European Convention on Local Self-Government. It is a violation of the province's authorities by making the province perform works, selecting contractors and financing everything that is otherwise financed from local funds. What does the European Convention on Local Self-Government mean? The funds are provided from senior authorities to local self-government and it conducts the procedure, it elects performers, it finances and it controls and controls.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61083	Two minutes. Thank you. Members of the 72nd amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 72nd Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Balint Pastor. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 72nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61084	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 19 members had this 1995 law on funds owned by the Republic of Serbia, a nationalised total property of local self-government and province units. The law has 80, 90 members who have this ambition to correct what was wrong with this 1995 law. Given that amount of law enforcement members compared to those 19 members, there is one doubt that the large number wanted to hide something, wanted to do something without doing anything. Indeed, when we said that with this bill, in fact, only one step towards some serious decentralisation, we were absolutely right. Here is this Article 73, in fact, only defines the immovableities needed for the Republic of Serbia, which again represents an exception to some, which further restricts certain rights that should be granted to units of local self-government or autonomous provinces. So, when we consider that natural resources remain where they were, that good in general use are partly in principle, and good of particular interest for the Republic of Serbia remains owned by the Republic, then we are fully aware that this law is only a small step towards change.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61085	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 72nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61086	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, above all, had in mind the interest of the province of Vojvodina, as well as the local units of self-government, when we proposed to regulate the return of the property that was taken away and that in a much more content way that property was returned and returned. However, unfortunately, we have received very brief explanations in response why all these amendments have not been adopted. In most cases, the amendment was not accepted for reasons why the proposed solution was more appropriate. So the legal solution is more appropriate. The rest is, therefore, that this public property law has a half-page explanation, and all these arguments that reject amendments submitted by LDP MPs reject with one brief explanation, with one short negation without any arguments. So it remains that we with these amendments really didn't want to compromise public property reform in any way, but we just wanted to fix the content of this law. But apparently, there is not enough courage, there is not enough political will to get a little more deep, more complex, in this problem of public property, public property and decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61087	Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the amendment of the 73rd. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61088	Article 75 regulates the way in which public property is acquired on immovable property and the application is made. It mainly refers to an autonomous province and refers to units of local self-government. We've suggested that this article be deleted on the 75th. It explains: "The amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill. "Our essence is to bring down this concept of law because we believe that public property should be owned by the Republic of Serbia, and other bodies such as the AP Vojvodina, such as units of local self-government, can and have the right to use that public property. We are very often, and we express the danger, we suspect that in this way, this bill tries to disintegrate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We have had the opportunity here to hear some amendments that have been submitted to give mineral wealth into the possession of the Vojvodina, not to give in to the King, to the Capcu, to the Loznica or to anyone else, where it is, but only to give in to the Vojvodina. It's absolutely unacceptable for us. The attitudes of the SRS and the public and the citizens believe. It must finally be done by the government. Remember only when we talked about the vaccine. How many times did Dr. Pai Momchilov, the honourable SRS MP, talk about it, no one took it seriously. Now that some things have begun to be resolved, discovered and presented to the public, then the Director of the Public Procurement Agency says... (President: National MP, agenda theme. I need a little parallel... (President: National MP, so you can parallel with any topic, and the topic is a search in detail, an amendment that you have submitted. Maybe the Deputy Prime Minister sees some similarities...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61089	People's MP, reminding you of the rules of the Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with the Deputy Prime Minister. If he violates any of the Rules of Procedure, I'll remind him on the same basis. Here you go. You've got 55 seconds left. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 75th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61090	The amendment is also one of the amendments to the SRS which are essential in nature. So, this amendment asked me to delete the entire article 76. It's a bill of law. I will remind you that article 76 regulates the deadline for submission of requests by the autonomous province and local self-government, therefore, the request for registration of property rights. The Serbian Radical Party is in principle against such a concept of public property. That's what SRS deputies have been talking about all day, trying to convince Mr. Djelic all day, seems unsuccessful, that we are absolutely right, that this concept is not good, that only a small circle of people will benefit from this concept of public property. Therefore, the SRS believes that availability must be in the hands of the Republic of Serbia, and use can be transferred to an autonomous province and local self-government. That could have been the case by now. If you've had any functional use problems so far, you have a chance to change it, you've had a chance so far. By introducing this kind of radical property transformation, you're actually running towards one goal. The goal is called the break-up of Serbia. That's what this law is all about. That's what we've been talking about all day, that's what I'm telling you now. The consequences of Serbia's dispersion in this way will only be felt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61091	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted the amendment to Article 76. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61092	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 77. The proposal for a law on public property is a solution to the application for registration. It is impossible to correct this bill with amendments to the Members of Parliament, including this amendment. This amendment is proposed to delete Article 77. The bill, because in most cases, the government has accepted certain amendments to the assembly majority for political trade, not for their real quality and for improving the text of the bill. The reason for not accepting the SRS draft law, including Article 77. The bill is a disagreement with the concept you have applied in this proposal, which is also the reason for the submission of this amendment. The point is that we in the SRS are not for the concept of existence both of the state and of the province and of the property of the local self-government units. We are for the concept of the existence of a state property. Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government can be users of that state property. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, public property is a state property, where it is the title and entity of the right of the state. This is the essence of which we in the SRS do not accept, we do not agree with the proposal of the Public Property Act as a whole, and with this proposed amendment of Article 70, with the provisions of Article 77. It's a bill of law. I further state that it is necessary to first pass a law on property-legal relations, and only later regulate public property in a normative way and other forms of property that stem from this basic property-owning law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61093	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted to Article 79 of the amendment by MPs Sreto Peric and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. National Messenger Milan Knezevic, then the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, briefly on this article 79. For the sake of the public, I want to read it, not read it, just a brief analysis. It refers to special property powers of the autonomous province and units of local self-government. For the sake of the public to say in point 1, it is said that the date of entry into force of this law on immovable property will result in the establishment of special property powers of an autonomous province, i.e. units of local self-government. Paragraph 2 states that these autonomous provinces, since we have two, and the unit of local self-government can take all the acts of immobilization, but not alienation. So alienation of immovableity can only be done with the government's consent. The third view is that in the event of estrangement from the previous two positions, the Government decides, and the funds go to an autonomous province, i.e. the local self-government unit. Now that you're looking at this, you can see from all of these points of view that this member is convulsing. If we are watching and if the aim of each country is to create one legal certainty, this Member shall certainly bring legal uncertainty into these segments. In what way? The application of this law would complicate many property relations. In particular, earlier owners, or their successors, who are entitled to this immovableity, would be threatened, and there would be a vacuum period for them to have either an autonomous province or a local self-government for a period of time, even though they would not be known whether they were owners or not. That is why we believe that the final decisions on the return of property and the right of public property were to be completed first and then to resolve the legal fate of those immovableities, and only then to move on to what is currently foreseen. So we feel that this should be deleted from this provision and wait for the province, or municipal property, to be established in accordance with the procedure, and then these matters to be resolved. I'll use the MP's time. So this solution is confusing, it introduces legal uncertainty, and we think this should be deleted. These very attitudes make clear the dilemma of the one who made this law as soon as he predicted all these attitudes. He predicted the possibility of coming to these levels, the autonomous provinces and local self-government, the great possibility of abuse, so indirectly, the next member of the 80th legislator provided for criminal points and prisons and punishments and other words, the law must have and be sanctioned when some things are not respected. Surely the lawyers, from the MPs sitting here, are much clearer to them, that this member is unnecessary and will cause confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61095	It was used two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. I apologize, MP Sreto Peric is also the applicant for the amendment. Excuse me, MP. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61096	The amendment to Article 79 is a logical continuation of the amendment to Article 75 that we have submitted, Mr Djelic, once again and at the end of this debate to tell you that the SRS is most serious against the transfer of state property to ownership and the availability of AP and units of local self-government. Here, I'm just going to make one argument from this article in 79 to comment on Section 2. "AP, the local self-government unit can take any available immovableity acts under item 1. " That means alienation with the government's consent. If only you had said here, a transfer to the property of the public property owners, but you didn't fence it in general. So public property can still be passed on to physical persons. That's why we were against this concept of law, and Mr. Djelic, this is another wrong move from the government. But to comfort it is not the only one, these comforts have nothing. For them, it will be a comfort for you to leave power and simply choose those people who will take better care of them and work in their interest. The reason for the adoption of such a law was that you and some of the other government representatives, until yesterday's ministers in the same government, did not have the efficiency of the Property Directorate, because they could not resolve at the request of a municipality related to the expansion of the cemetery. Well, that's not a problem with the property law. It was a problem of the government's ineffectiveness, its officials and its clerks. It took a lot of work, and you probably know that when a job doesn't go cocoa, beds don't change.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61097	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovač and Arpad Fremond submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 82 and 82. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Financial Committee has submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 82 and 82. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 83 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 84th Amendment were tabled in the same text by MPs Zoran Kasalovici group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61098	I was in this article called the Conqualification, also in the principle debate, as particularly problematic. We have also submitted an amendment to its position 2, because we really don't mind that the Government can subsequently give consent to contracts on the acquisition of immovable property that have been made in accordance with the regulations to subsequent consent. We are completely against and we are seeking to delete attitude 2, where it is possible to give consent to obtaining immovable property although no public competition procedure has been implemented, i.e. the collection of written offers, and the previous and subsequent consents of the Government to such acquisition of immovable property until the date of entry into force of this law remain in force. What gives you the right to simply give someone the incentive to continue to break the law, especially because the applicable Fund Act in its Republic provides for a rule that immovable property is supplied by public competition. I really believe that this Article 2 should be deleted because whoever did this obtaining contrary to the applicable regulations cannot impair their illegal activity. You have to admit it's not right at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61099	Anyone else want a word? The government has submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Since this is the last amendment in order to search in detail, I'm asking if anyone else wants the word under this amendment. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61100	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for today's discussion. As you could say, not by declaration, but by working together on behalf of the Government, I also accepted some amendments that the government may not have accepted in the debate yesterday, because we listened carefully to the arguments. There is absolutely no reason for such an important law, and that any other law to keep good arguments without confirmation, if it can serve our citizens even better. With that in mind, I would like to say that we accept the corrected amendment, which we received on Article 64(1), and we expect Mrs Tabakovic to be delivered and such a corrected amendment, which will then be accepted by the subject of the discussion, which is in the stenogram. I believe that in the end, this is an unequivocal step forward for our citizens and our country. We have in our history, and that's why I believe that this discussion, that it's entered a dose of emotion, and a number of fears, that any step in decentralisation can endanger the state's tissue. We also have a recent experience, and I don't want to reopen some debate now, but there must have been a Constitution, especially the one from 1974, that brought some difficulties to our country's functioning. I believe it's a good thing there's almost no mention of this constitution or any other element of the past, because what we have to do, it's the law on public property and the regulation of our country for the future. We don't forget the past, but we build for the future. This law has provided that our country is able to function effectively under the conditions of the harsh competition that exist, whether or not that competition is not only the competition of the EU, but also the competition of large countries such as China, Brazil, Russia, or India, which requires us that our country's organisations empower our local self-government, be able to implement a number of projects, especially projects in the area of investment that will benefit our citizens, that we do not have a situation where there is always something waiting and where someone else is constantly responsible, and that is why we have heard the arguments and we clearly saw that there is a clear principle of functionality, not territoriality in this law. No one is given this law of property by entering their own atmosphere, and no one can look at it. In the territory of a municipality, now and for public roads according to the nomenclature of the law, we will have local, municipal, untegrated roads and they are of local importance. Logically, the Constitution is founded and comprehensively to ensure that these roads are fully cared for by local self-government and to answer to citizens about whether these local roads have been improved during their mandate and that we see who is good at the job and that no one is hiding between alleged waiting or some approvals that cannot come from Belgrade. On the other hand, we have made it clear, something that is the street, which is actually the state road of first order, we have an example here in Belgrade, the street of Arsenija Charnojevic which is "Gazala", the European road, K10, that this is what is in its own country. We didn't go down the road to be in different levels of government, because we know there were such demands. Does this mean that tomorrow, if a highway is built and several levels of government are jointly invested in their construction, that only one level of state should be harvesting fruit from that investment? No, I don't. And these levels to explain, because we have one economic logic that will be the incentive to build together, not the pressure of one level of government on another. If we build together one part of the highway, it will continue to be owned by the Republic of Serbia, the aputin can, if different levels of government are agreed on, be divided into that level of investments that existed. So it is very clear where money comes from and in whose interest it is, as well as Serbia, which in the years to come, as well as all other countries unfortunately will have great challenges with public finances, whoever is in power, will have more opportunities to invest together. Let's also look at rich countries of various continents, literally every major capital infrastructure facility is co-financed by several levels of government, and that doesn't necessarily mean they're owned, and that doesn't mean that there's one part that can be sold. You need to separate those two things. Let this be an illustration of the balance that is in accordance with our Constitution, establishing this law on public property. This law allows the provision of finally what with great rights and citizens and numerous political parties say today, becomes inexplicable, does not exist. I guess that hypercentralization of the '90s was supposed to make sure that at least you knew what that property was. At the time that apparently several members were given the entire ingenuity, I guess someone expected that all these fears of that decentralisation that had then been completely abolished, that we knew what we were on. That didn't happen. Let this be another illustration that hypercentralization may have some benefits only on paper, because it did not provide and the discussion showed that things were happening in reality that this hypercentralized system failed to wash away, and the responsibility of those at the site who made those decisions was not possible, because by law it was forbidden, and then we were simply in the domain of police investigations, we should have responded to that hypercentralization with the police. That's not what happened. That's why in one democracy that works, the right way to be less stealing, to know who answers, is to have decentralisation, and politics serves to have responsibility for what is done. Now the responsibility is shared, and when responsibility is shared in a very clear way, there is a very clear location of responsibility, from the moment, honourable MPs, and I end up, when I hope, on Monday, you broadly vote this system law on public property, it will be known within the state of which it is, and that is no less important at all, which, who, for which it corresponds and suffers the consequences that are political and criminal, possibly in front of the citizens who have given them the mandate. It will be in the interest of our country, it will be in the interest of our economy. This is the balance established by the 2006 Constitution, statehood everywhere it is necessary and necessary, decentralisation, wherever it is useful. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-22-0.u61101	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes today's work. We continue our work tomorrow September 23rd at 10.00 p.m., by searching the details of the Bill on Compensation and Compensation. The government's opinion will be divided tomorrow before the session begins. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will begin the search in particular, when the conditions are met, taking care of the harmonised order, we and the Deputy Prime Minister and the General Secretariat of the Government, we take care of the government's opinion on the amendments, the draft restitution law will be there. Tomorrow comes autumn, and the amendments will arrive. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. Radiating the number of MPs who put their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please let us determine how many of us are present in the electronic system. Here you go. I find that the electronic system has established that MPs who have inserted their identification cards are 86 people, and that another number of MPs is present in the hall, and that there is a Rules of Procedure established a condition for the work of the National Assembly session. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: National MP Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, National Assembly President, National MP Milos Radulović, National MP Miletic Mihajlović and MP Nikola Krpic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, called for the sittings to be attended by Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Svetlana Markanovic, an adviser in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers. I would also like to inform you that the Government has decided that a representative of the Government in the National Assembly during the examination of the above-mentioned draft law, i.e. a proposal for a law on the use of confiscated property and compensation and a bill on amendments to the Law on Return, the restitution of property to churches and religious communities, has also decided that Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, who I also called for to attend the session, and on the basis of a decision by the Government to determine representatives during the work of the National Assembly session. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the second item of the agenda - THE PROPOSAL OF THE RETURNING OF THE IMPLEMENTS AND NOTICES IN THE PUBLIC MEMBER STATES I have a notice from the Service of the National Assembly that there is a multiplication of the Government's report, i.e. the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, that one copy of it is in the MPs' clubs and that in ten minutes it will be divided into the hall, and before I open a review of the bill in particular, I am setting a break of 10 minutes for the material to be delivered to the MPs. We'll continue the session at 10.25 hours. Thank you.
